Risk Factors Our future operating results are highly uncertain. Before deciding to invest in our common stock or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in our other filings with the SEC, including any subsequent reports filed on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business and results of operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our Independent Public Auditing Firm has issued a “Going Concern” opinion, which raises doubts about our ability to continue as a viable entity. Our independent auditor has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our ability to further implement our business plan, raise additional capital and fulfill our backlog. Absent firm commitments for additional financing, these conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future; additional funds may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In addition to our significant net losses in recent periods, we have also historically experienced negative cash flows, from operations or other uses of cash. Due largely to our capital expenditures, we experienced a net reduction of our cash during fiscal 2005 of approximately $754,500. In fiscal 2006, due largely to debt service related to the Initial Acquisition of Optex, we experienced a net reduction in cash of $726,800. In fiscal 2007, we had a modest increase in cash, largely due to financing activities, but used approximately $4.4 million of cash in operating activities. To offset the effect of negative net cash flows, we have historically funded a portion of our operations through multiple equity financings, and to a lesser extent through receivable financing. In December 2005, in order to finance the Initial Acquisition of Optex, we obtained a $4.9 million senior secured term loan and borrowed $10.0 million of subordinated secured convertible notes. We had to raise $8.25 million in December 2006 to refinance the senior secured term loan and our $2 million revolving line of credit and to enhance our working capital. We entered into a short-term promissory note, with a present principal value of $2.1 million, with one of our senior lenders in July 2007 to further enhance our liquidity and were subsequently able to extend it to long-term status in November 2007, along with restructuring our other debt, but at a cost of an increase of an additional $1.1 in our aggregate debt. We anticipate we will have to raise additional capital in the future to service or retire our debt, remedy debt defaults, replace lenders and to finance our future working capital needs. We cannot assure you that any additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. Future financings may require stockholder approval, which may not be obtainable. Future equity financings may be difficult to obtain while we are ineligible to use Form S-3 and while the ability to register resales is subject to consent of our senior lenders. If we are not able to obtain additional capital as may be required, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We anticipate that our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to repay our existing debt; • our ability to fulfill funded backlog at Optex; • our ability to procure additional production contracts and government research and development contracts; • our ability to control costs; • our ability to commercialize our technologies and achieve broad market acceptance for such technologies; • the timing of payments and reimbursements from government and other contracts; • research and development funding requirements; 15 Table of Contents • increased sales and marketing expenses; • technological advancements and competitors’ response to our products; • capital improvements to new and existing facilities; • the impact of our acquisition of Optex and any additional acquisitions that we may complete; • our relationships with customers and suppliers; and • general economic conditions including the effects of future economic slowdowns, a slump in the semiconductor market, acts of war or terrorism and the current international conflicts. Even if available, financings can involve significant costs and expenses, such as legal and accounting fees, diversion of management’s time and efforts, or substantial transaction costs or break-up fees in certain instances. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to finance our operations, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Our common stock may be delisted by the Nasdaq Capital Market if we cannot maintain Nasdaq’s listing requirements. In such case, the market for your shares may be limited, and it may be difficult for you to sell your shares at an acceptable price, if at all. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly known as the Nasdaq SmallCap Market). Among other requirements, to maintain this listing, our common stock must continue to trade above $1.00 per share. In December 2007, our stock had failed to meet this criterion for over 30 consecutive trading days. As a result, in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(B), we were notified by Nasdaq that we had 180 calendar days or until June 3, 2008 to regain compliance with this Rule by reestablishing a sales price of $1.00 per share or greater for ten consecutive trading days. In July 2001, our stock had also failed to meet this criterion for over 30 consecutive trading days. Our common stock has, at various times, traded close to or below the $1.00 per share minimum standard, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to regain compliance again or that the sales price of our common stock will continue to meet Nasdaq’s minimum listing standards. In addition to the price requirement, we must also meet at least one of the three following additional standards to maintain our Nasdaq listing: (1) maintenance of stockholders’ equity at $2.5 million or greater, (2) maintenance of our market capitalization in excess of $35 million as measured by market prices for trades executed on Nasdaq, or (3) net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the latest fiscal year or two of the last three fiscal years. In July 2001, Nasdaq notified us that we were deficient with respect to all of these additional standards based on our financial statements as of July 1, 2001. In August 2001, Nasdaq advised us that, based on updated information, we had reestablished compliance with the $35 million market capitalization standard. However, the subsequent decline in the price of our common stock resulted in another deficiency notice from Nasdaq in August 2001, for which compliance was subsequently reestablished. In January 2007, we received a Nasdaq Staff Determination notifying us that we failed to comply with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) as a result of our failure to timely file our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2006. As a result of such late filing and the receipt of such Nasdaq Staff Determination, our Series 1 and Series 2 Notes, our term loan with our new senior lenders, our $400,000 unsecured subordinated promissory note with Mr. Looney and Optex’s $2 million secured subordinated note with Mr. Looney became in default. We received waivers that cured these defaults, and we filed our Form 10-K on January 31, 2007. If we are untimely in filing our Exchange Act reports in the future and receive additional Nasdaq Staff Determinations, we may experience additional defaults in the future under our outstanding debt instruments. After we filed our Form 10-K on January 31, 2007, Nasdaq notified us that we had regained compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), but we were notified by Nasdaq in December 2007 that we no longer comply with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4), and we cannot assure you that we will be able to regain or maintain our compliance with Nasdaq’s requirements in the future. The effect of the restatement of our fiscal 2006 balance sheet retrospectively caused our stockholders’ equity to be below the Nasdaq listing requirement of stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million or greater at October 1, 2006 when our market capitalization was also less than $35 million. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). This condition was cured by our December 2006 debt refinancing prior to the filing of our fiscal 2006 Form 10-K in January 2007. Nonetheless, the cumulative effect of our restatement has 16 Table of Contents substantially narrowed our margin for compliance with Nasdaq stockholders’ equity listing requirements in the future. If we fail to meet Nasdaq listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted, which would eliminate the primary market for your shares of common stock and would result in additional defaults under our outstanding debt instruments. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares at an acceptable price, if at all. In addition, such delisting may make it more difficult or expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future. If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, your ability to sell your shares of our common stock would also be limited by the penny stock restrictions, which could further limit the marketability of your shares. If our common stock is delisted, it would come within the definition of “penny stock” as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and would be covered by Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. That Rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, Rule 15g-9, if it were to become applicable, would affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and accordingly would affect the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the public market. These additional procedures could also limit our ability to raise additional capital in the future. The December 2006 refinancings and November 2007 restructuring of our senior and subordinated debt increased our aggregate debt and increased the dilutive effect of our convertible subordinated notes and related warrants, thereby increasing risks associated with the retirement of these obligations. The December 2006 refinancing of our senior debt increased the amount of that obligation from approximately $5.9 million to $8.25 million at a slightly higher interest rate, all of which is due and payable in December 2009, pursuant to a November 2007 restructuring of this debt. The November 2007 restructuring of our debt also increased our total debt by approximately $1.1 million for a restructuring fee and contingently increased our debt by an additional approximate $1.1 million if we fail to retire our obligations to our senior lenders by December 2009. Furthermore, the conversion price of our convertible subordinated notes and the exercise price of related warrants was reduced in the December 2006 refinancing, pursuant to the notes’ and warrants’ price anti-dilution features, from $2.60 per share to $1.30 per share, which may impede our ability to raise additional capital to facilitate the retirement of our debt. Failure to satisfy our debt obligations would expose us to a variety of remedies available to our lenders, up to and including foreclosure on our assets. Our stock price could decline because of the potentially dilutive effect of future financings, conversions of notes, effect of anti-dilution provisions or exercises of warrants and common stock options. During the past three fiscal years, we issued approximately 9.0 million shares of our common stock, largely to fund our operations and to acquire the remaining 30% interest in Optex, resulting in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. At October 1, 2006, there were approximately 10.6 million shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of warrants and options and upon the conversion of our subordinated secured convertible notes. At September 30, 2007, due to the refinancing of our debt, this aggregate dilutive potential was approximately 17.0 million shares. Any additional equity or convertible debt financings in the future could result in further dilution to our stockholders. Existing stockholders also will suffer significant dilution in ownership interests and voting rights, and our stock price could decline, as a result of potential future application of price anti-dilution features of our subordinated convertible notes and the Pequot warrants, if not waived by the note holders and warrant holders. The December 2006 refinancings of our senior and subordinated debt have resulted in substantial cash and non-cash expenses, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. The refinancing of our senior debt and convertible subordinated notes involved cash expenses in excess of $2.5 million, including a $1.25 million settlement fee paid to Pequot, and very substantial non-cash expenses because of the expense of new warrants and the redetermination of imputed interest associated with the subordinated convertible notes primarily resulting from those notes now containing a beneficial conversion feature. Significant cash expenses of the refinancing, including the $1.25 million settlement fee, were recorded as expenses in fiscal 2006, and the balance of the cash expenses and a substantial portion of the non-cash expenses were recorded as expenses in fiscal 2007 and will continue to be recorded during the remaining term of the debt. The expense associated with the new warrants will be amortized over the term of the debt. These financial reporting impacts could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 17 Table of Contents Significant sales of our common stock in the public market will cause our stock price to fall. As of September 30, 2007, we had approximately 26.8 million shares of common stock outstanding, all but approximately 2.7 million of which were freely tradable, other than restrictions imposed upon our affiliates. In addition, approximately 17.0 million shares of our common stock were issuable pursuant to outstanding options, warrants and convertible notes. The average trading volume of our shares in September 2007, however, was only approximately 25,900 shares per day. Accordingly, the freely tradable shares and those shares that are potentially issuable are significantly greater in number than the daily average trading volume of our shares. If the holders of the freely tradable shares were to sell a significant amount of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. If we raise additional capital in the future through the sale of shares of our common stock to private investors, we may, subject to existing restrictions lapsing or being waived, agree to register these shares for resale on a registration statement as we have done in the past. Upon registration, these additional shares would become freely tradable once sold in the public market, assuming the prospectus delivery and other requirements were met by the sellers, and, if significant in amount, such sales could further adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The sale of a large number of shares of our common stock also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at the prices that we deem appropriate. The consolidation of our debt may have increased the likelihood that our debt could be accelerated. The unanticipated delays that we experienced in receipts of new research and development contracts in fiscal 2006 resulted in our failure to comply with our bank debt covenants several times since the inception of our credit facility with our previous senior lender, Square 1 Bank, and resulted in cross-defaults under our subordinated secured convertible notes. We renegotiated the covenants of our senior bank debt on the first of these occurrences but, as a result of subsequent occurrences, were required to refinance our senior bank debt, including the incorporation of our revolving line-of-credit into our senior term loan, to new senior lenders in December 2006. Although the new senior lenders have waived the prior defaults and cross-defaults associated with our original senior and subordinated debt, have waived the new financial condition default covenants associated with our new senior debt and have deferred our obligation to pay principal and interest until December 2009, we cannot assure you that the variability in our contract business and the margins in our product business will allow us to retire our debt obligations in a timely manner. Failure to comply with the requirements of our senior debt exposes us to a variety of remedies available to our senior lenders, including acceleration of the debt, which would place a significant strain on our financial resources or foreclosure on our assets and the assets of Optex. Our senior debt is secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of Optex. As of September 30, 2007, we had term senior debt of approximately $8.25 million outstanding. As a result of the default under our prior senior bank debt and a resulting cross-default with Pequot, our subordinated convertible notes, initially in the aggregate amount of $10 million that has been subsequently reduced to approximately $8.4 million through conversions, also were refinanced when our senior lenders purchased such notes from Pequot. In addition, we entered into a short-term promissory note, with a present principal value of $2.1 million, with one of our senior lenders in July 2007, which was subsequently extended to a maturity date of December 2009 through the issuance of $1.1 million of additional debt to our senior lenders in November 2007. The consolidation of our senior and subordinated debt, July 2007 promissory note and our November 2007 promissory notes with common lenders increases the risks that all obligations could be accelerated concurrently, resulting in a demand that we could not satisfy. Our subordinated convertible notes, $2.1 million and $1.1 million promissory notes are also secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of Optex. We recently received notices from Mr. Looney claiming that we are in default under our $400,000 one-year unsecured subordinated promissory note with Mr. Looney for the alleged nonpayment of principal and interest and that Optex is in default under its $2 million secured subordinated note with TWL Group, LP, an entity owned by Mr. Looney, for the alleged nonpayment of principal and interest. While we believe Mr. Looney currently is prohibited under a subordination agreement from demanding payment or taking any other action under the $400,000 note due to the existence of a technical default under our senior debt, such circumstances could change, requiring us to pay the scheduled principal and interest that would otherwise be due under the $400,000 note. In addition, TWL Group alleges that the maturity date of Optex’s $2 million note was November 29, 2007 and that principal and interest was due on that date. While we do not agree with TWL Group’s allegations and believe that 18 Table of Contents the maturity date of the $2 million note currently is February 27, 2009, there can be no assurance that TWL Group’s allegations will not be successful. While we believe TWL Group currently would be prohibited under a subordination agreement from demanding payment or taking any other action under the $2 million note due to the existence of a technical default under our senior debt, such circumstances could change, requiring Optex to pay the scheduled principal and interest that would otherwise be due under the $2 million note if Mr. Looney’s allegations were successful. If circumstances change, requiring us and Optex to repay the scheduled principal and interest under the $400,000 note and the $2 million note, it would place a significant strain on our financial resources, may require us to raise additional funds and may make it difficult to obtain additional financing. If we are unable at such time to repay the scheduled principal and interest under the notes, it could expose us to a variety of remedies available to our senior lenders, including acceleration of the senior debt or foreclosure on our assets and the assets of Optex, and, subject to the subordination agreements, may expose us to any remedies that may be available to Mr. Looney and TWL Group, including acceleration of their notes or TWL Group’s foreclosure on the assets of Optex. Our acquisition of Optex is subject to significant operational and financial risks and challenges that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In December 2005, we incurred a significant amount of debt in order to finance the Initial Acquisition of Optex. In December 2006, this debt had to be refinanced to cure defaults thereunder. Because Optex represents our first significant acquisition, we have no prior history of integrating acquired companies or businesses into our operations and we have not yet fully completed our integration of Optex, we cannot fully predict the ultimate impact of the acquisition of Optex on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisition of Optex is subject to many inherent risks, including: • the history of Optex as a privately-held company and our ability to make the necessary investments to integrate the Optex operations and maintain acceptable internal controls; • our ability to successfully integrate the operational and cultural differences between our historical base of funded contract research and development, and Optex’s base of long-term product manufacturing; • our ability to satisfy the debt service and other requirements of our refinanced and new debt instruments; • our ability to recruit a new management team for Optex; • our ability to successfully bridge the geographic separation between the Optex operations in Richardson, Texas and our historical base of operations in Costa Mesa, California; • the significant dilutive effect of the additional shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to the convertible debt and warrants issued in the financing of the acquisition of Optex and the warrants issued in the refinancing of such debt; • the customer and market concentration of Optex’s business; • our ability to fulfill funded backlog at Optex; • our ability to achieve the expected synergies from the acquisition of Optex; and • general economic and political conditions that could affect Optex’s business. Certain Optex products are dependent on specialized sources of supply that are potentially subject to disruption and attendant adverse impact to our business. Some of Optex’s products currently incorporate components purchased from single sources of supply. The financial pressure surrounding the refinancing of our debt has limited our ability to supplement Optex’s working capital, which is principally used to purchase parts and materials from its suppliers. If supply from single supply sources is materially disrupted, requiring Optex to obtain and qualify alternate sources of supply for such components, our revenues could decline, our reputation with our customers could be harmed, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our acquisition strategy may further strain our capital resources, result in additional integration and assimilation challenges, be further dilutive to existing stockholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges and expenses, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets or technologies that allow us to expand our capabilities and 19 Table of Contents market coverage and to complement our existing product offerings. Optex was our first acquisition under this strategy. Acquisitions may require significant upfront capital as well as capital infusions, and typically entail many risks, including unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. We have not engaged in an acquisition strategy prior to our acquisition of Optex, we have experienced difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of Optex and we may experience similar difficulties in assimilating any other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash or debt could also put a significant strain on our limited capital resources. Acquisitions may also require large one-time charges and can result in contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, deferred compensation charges, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline. In addition, we may issue equity or convertible debt securities in connection with an acquisition, as we did in connection with our Initial Acquisition of Optex. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing stockholders and such securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate or consummate any pending or future acquisitions, or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions, including our acquisition of Optex. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisition on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate an acquisition. We have historically generated substantial losses, which, if continued, could make it difficult to fund our operations or successfully execute our business plan, and could adversely affect our stock price. Since our inception, we have generated net losses in most of our fiscal periods. We experienced a net loss of approximately $22.1 million for fiscal 2007, including the effect of approximately $4.4 million of debt extinguishment expenses resulting from the December 2006 refinancing of our debt and approximately $5.0 million of imputed non-cash interest expense resulting from debt discounts recorded in the fiscal year due to that refinancing and our July 2007 promissory note financing. We experienced net losses of approximately $8.4 million for fiscal 2006, including the effect recorded in that fiscal year of our December 2006 debt refinancing, and $1.8 million for fiscal 2005. We anticipate that we will incur approximately $7.4 million of additional debt discount expenses in subsequent reporting periods while our refinanced debt is outstanding. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. In addition, because we have significant expenses that are fixed or difficult to change rapidly, we generally are unable to reduce expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues. For example, we experienced some significant contract delays in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 that resulted in unanticipated additional operating expenses to keep personnel on staff while the contracts were pending with no corresponding revenues. In addition, our present level of contract research and development revenue makes us dependent on support from subcontractors to meet our operating plans and susceptible to losses when such support is delayed. Such factors could cause us to continue to experience net losses in future periods, which will make it difficult to fund our operations and achieve our business plan, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our government-funded research and development business depends on a limited number of customers, and if any of these customers terminate or reduce their contracts with us, or if we cannot obtain additional government contracts in the future, our revenues will decline and our results of operations will be adversely affected. For fiscal 2006, approximately 14% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA, approximately 12% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with the U.S. Air Force and approximately 11% of our total revenues were 20 Table of Contents generated from research and development contracts with the U.S. Army. For fiscal 2007, approximately 21% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with the U.S. Air Force, approximately 9% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with SAIC, a government contractor, and approximately 9% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with the U.S. Army. Although we ultimately plan to shift our focus to include the commercialization of our technology, we expect to continue to be dependent upon research and development contracts with federal agencies and their contractors for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our dependency on a few contract sources increases the risks of disruption in this area of our business or significant fluctuations in quarterly revenue, either of which could adversely affect our consolidated revenues and results of operations. Because both our historical operations and those of Optex currently depend on government contracts and subcontracts, we face additional risks related to contracting with the federal government, including federal budget issues and fixed price contracts. General political and economic conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, directly and indirectly may affect the quantity and allocation of expenditures by federal agencies. Even the timing of incremental funding commitments to existing, but partially funded, contracts can be affected by these factors. Therefore, cutbacks or re-allocations in the federal budget could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations as long as research and development contracts remain an important element of our business. Obtaining government contracts may also involve long purchase and payment cycles, competitive bidding, qualification requirements, delays or changes in funding, budgetary constraints, political agendas, extensive specification development and price negotiations and milestone requirements. Each government agency also maintains its own rules and regulations with which we must comply and which can vary significantly among agencies. Governmental agencies also often retain some portion of fees payable upon completion of a project and collection of these fees may be delayed for several months or even years, in some instances. In addition, an increasing number of our government contracts are fixed price contracts, which may prevent us from recovering costs incurred in excess of its budgeted costs. Fixed price contracts require us to estimate the total project cost based on preliminary projections of the project’s requirements. The financial viability of any given project depends in large part on our ability to estimate such costs accurately and complete the project on a timely basis. While we have historically not experienced material aggregate cost overruns on our fixed price contracts in our research and development business, we have recorded approximately $1.4 million of provision for contract losses in fiscal 2007 for Optex’s production contracts, and our exposure to the risks of such overruns have increased in our products business due to the fact that Optex’s contracts are solely of a fixed-price nature. Some of those contracts are for products that are new to Optex and are thus subject to more potential for unanticipated impacts to manufacturing costs. In the event our actual costs exceed the fixed contractual cost of either our research and development contracts or our product contracts, we will not be able to recover the excess costs. Some of our government contracts are also subject to termination or renegotiation at the convenience of the government, which could result in a large decline in revenue in any given quarter. Although government contracts have provisions providing for the reimbursement of costs associated with termination, the termination of a material contract at a time when our funded backlog does not permit redeployment of our staff could result in reductions of employees. In 1999, we experienced the termination of one of our contracts, but this termination did not result in the non-recovery of costs or lay-off of employees. We have in the past chosen to incur excess overhead in order to retain trained employees during delays in contract funding. We also have had to reduce our staff from time-to-time because of fluctuations in our funded government contract base. In addition, the timing of payments from government contracts is also subject to significant fluctuation and potential delay, depending on the government agency involved. Any such delay could result in a temporary shortage in our working capital. Since a substantial majority of our total revenues in the last three fiscal years were derived directly or indirectly from government customers, these risks can significantly affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks may become more pronounced as a result of our acquisition of Optex, which also largely relies on government contracts. If we are not able to commercialize our technology, we may not be able to increase our revenues or achieve or sustain profitability. Since commencing operations, we have developed technology, principally under government research contracts, for various defense-based applications. However, since our margins on government contracts are generally limited, and our revenues from such contracts are tied to government budget cycles and influenced by numerous political and economic factors beyond our control, and are subject to our ability to win 21 Table of Contents additional contracts, our long-term prospects of realizing significant returns from our technology or achieving and maintaining profitability will likely also require penetration of commercial markets. In prior years, we have made significant investments to commercialize our technologies without significant success. These efforts included the purchase and later shut down of a manufacturing line co-located at an IBM facility, the formation of the Novalog, MSI, Silicon Film, RedHawk and iNetWorks subsidiaries and the development of various stacked-memory products intended for commercial markets in addition to military and aerospace applications. While these investments developed new revenue sources, they have not resulted in consolidated profitability to date, and a majority of our total revenues for fiscal 2005, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007 were still generated from governmental customers. In fiscal 2005, we discontinued operations of our Novalog subsidiary due to the decline in the sales of its products and lack of availability of economic sources of supply for its products. The significant military operations in the Middle East or elsewhere may require diversions of government research and development funding, thereby causing disruptions to our contracts or otherwise adversely impact our revenues. In the near term, the funding of U.S. military operations in Iraq or elsewhere may cause disruptions in funding of government contracts. Since military operations of such magnitude are not routinely included in U.S. defense budgets, supplemental legislative funding actions are required to finance such operations. Even when such legislation is enacted, it may not be adequate for ongoing operations, causing other defense funding sources to be temporarily or permanently diverted. Such diversion could produce interruptions in funding or delays in receipt of our research and development contracts, causing disruptions and adverse effects to our operations. In addition, concerns about international conflicts and the effects of terrorist and other military activity have resulted in unsettled worldwide economic conditions. These conditions make it difficult for our customers to accurately forecast and plan future business opportunities, in turn making it difficult for us to plan our current and future allocation of resources and increasing the risks that our results of operations could be adversely effected. If we fail to scale our operations appropriately in response to recent growth, the acquisition of Optex and changes in demand, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. We experienced a period of rapid growth in fiscal 2005 resulting in a 68% increase in our total revenues to $23.0 million in fiscal 2005 as compared to $13.7 million in fiscal 2004. Our total revenues in fiscal 2006 were $30.9 million, 34% higher than fiscal 2005, largely due to the acquisition of Optex. Our total revenues in the fiscal 2007 were $35.8 million, approximately 16% higher than fiscal 2006, again largely due to the acquisition of Optex. Our past growth has placed, and any future growth in our historical business is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, infrastructure and resources. These strains are likely to become more pronounced as a result of our acquisition of Optex. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and expand our operational and financial systems, as well as our manufacturing and service capabilities. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and additional capital. If we are unable to effectively manage the integration of Optex and our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Historically, we have primarily depended on third party contract manufacturers for the manufacture of a majority of our products and any failure to secure and maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity or quality products could materially and adversely affect our business. For our existing products, other than those manufactured by Optex, we primarily use contract manufacturers to fabricate and assemble our stacked chip, microchip and sensor products, and our internal manufacturing capabilities prior to the acquisition of Optex consisted primarily of assembly, calibration and test functions for our thermal camera products. We currently plan to utilize Optex for some of our future manufacturing needs, but we cannot guarantee our success in that endeavor. We have typically used single contract manufacturing sources for our historical products and do not have long-term, guaranteed contracts with such sources. As a result, we face several significant risks, including: • a lack of guaranteed supply of products and higher prices; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. 22 Table of Contents In addition, the manufacture of our products is a highly complex and technologically demanding process and we are dependent upon our contract manufacturers to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields or quality issues. We currently do not have any long-term supply contracts with any of our manufacturers and do not have the capability or capacity to manufacture our products in-house in large quantities. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity with our existing manufacturers, implement manufacturing of some of our new products at Optex or scale our internal capabilities, our revenues, cost of revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Optex faces additional risks related to contracting with the federal government, including federal budget issues and fixed price contracts. Optex’s sales are largely to governmental agencies or prime contractors to such agencies. General political and economic conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, directly and indirectly may affect the quantity and allocation of expenditures by federal agencies. Even the timing of incremental funding commitments to existing, but partially funded, contracts can be affected by these factors. Therefore, cutbacks or re-allocations in the federal budget could have a material adverse impact on Optex’s results of operations. Optex’s ability to obtain contracts or purchase orders from government agencies or prime contractors frequently involves competitive bidding, qualification requirements, delays or changes in funding, budgetary constraints, political agendas, price negotiations and milestone requirements. Furthermore, virtually all of Optex’s products are delivered pursuant to fixed-price orders, and Optex must therefore bear the risks of cost growth associated with its products, except to the extent that it has negotiated cost inflation contract protection that adequately covers inflationary growth in its costs. If we are not able to obtain market acceptance of our new products, our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected. We generally focus on markets that are emerging in nature. Market reaction to new products in these circumstances can be difficult to predict. Many of our planned products incorporate our chip stacking technologies that have not yet achieved broad market acceptance. We cannot assure you that our present or future products will achieve market acceptance on a sustained basis. In addition, due to our historical focus on research and development, we have a limited history of competing in the intensely competitive commercial electronics industry. As such, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture and market additional commercial product lines or that such product lines will be accepted in the commercial marketplace. If we are not successful in commercializing our new products, our ability to generate revenues and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our fiscal 2005, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007 audits revealed material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, including the failure of such controls to identify the need to record a post employment obligation for our ESCP, which resulted in a restatement of our financial statements. We believe these types of material weaknesses relate primarily to the size and depth of our accounting staff. We have attempted to address these material weaknesses by expanding our staff and reassigning responsibilities during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007, but have not yet fully remediated this condition. The acquisition of Optex also created material weaknesses in our internal controls, both in terms of the infrastructure and control processes at Optex and in our corporate controls for oversight and management of Optex. We have begun changing that infrastructure and internal control processes at Optex to address those material weaknesses, but have also not yet fully remediated these conditions. Our size and limited discretionary capital leave us subject to other potential material weaknesses in the future. We are in the process of documenting and testing our internal control processes in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments and a written report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and, commencing in our fiscal 2009, a report by our independent auditors on the effectiveness of our internal controls. During the course of our testing, we may identify other significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, in addition to the ones previously identified, which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we will not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the future. 23 Table of Contents The acquisition of Optex is expected to materially complicate the timely achievement of effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. The geographic separation of Optex from our historical base of operations, and Optex’s prior organization as a family-owned and operated, privately held company, has required the establishment of additional internal controls to meet the disclosure requirements of a publicly reporting company. The transition to such controls as of September 30, 2007 has not yet been fully completed and tested and, as such, has been presently deemed to be a material weakness in our internal financial controls. The implementation and testing of such additional internal controls will consume both time and financial resources, increasing our risks of timely compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result of the acquisition of Optex, achieving compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be substantially more complicated and costly, and we cannot assure you that such compliance will be achieved in a timely manner, or at all. Our stock price has been subject to significant volatility. You may not be able to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in the past. Since January 2000, our common stock has traded at prices as low as $0.67 per share and as high as $375.00 per share (after giving effect to the 1-for-20 reverse stock split effected in September 2001). The current market price of our common stock may not increase in the future. As such, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of the common stock could continue to fluctuate or decline in the future in response to various factors, including, but not limited to: • quarterly variations in operating results; • our ability to control costs and improve cash flow; • our ability to introduce and commercialize new products and achieve broad market acceptance for our products; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • our ability to win additional research and development contracts; • changes in investor perceptions; • economic and political instability, including acts of war, terrorism and continuing international conflicts; and • changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts. The trading markets for the equity securities of high technology companies have continued to experience volatility. Such volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We were subject to a class action lawsuit that diverted management’s attention and resources from other matters until it was settled in June 2004. We cannot guarantee you that we will not be subject to similar class action lawsuits in the future. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights, our ability to compete in our target markets could be materially and adversely affected. We believe that our success will depend, in part, on the strength of our existing patent protection and the additional patent protection that we may acquire in the future. As of September 30, 2007, we held 58 U.S. patents and 16 foreign patents and had other U.S. patent applications pending as well as various foreign patent applications. Five of these patents, covering early versions of our stacking technology, expire in less than two years, which may narrow our ability to pose barriers to entry from competitors if these early technologies become commercially significant. It is possible that any existing patents or future patents, if any, could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any right granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection from competition. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, services or technology without authorization, to develop similar technology independently or to design around our patents. In addition, we treat technical data as confidential and generally rely on internal nondisclosure safeguards, including confidentiality agreements with employees, and on laws protecting trade secrets, to protect proprietary information. We cannot assure you that these measures will adequately protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information or that others will not independently develop products or technology that are equivalent or superior to ours. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to exploit our own technologies may be constrained by the rights of third parties who could prevent us from selling our products in certain markets or could require us to obtain costly licenses. Other companies may hold or obtain patents or inventions or may otherwise claim proprietary rights to technology useful or necessary to our business. We cannot predict the extent to which we may be required to seek licenses under such proprietary rights of third parties and the cost or availability of these licenses. While it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more proposed products or relating to current or future technologies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our technology is found to infringe upon the rights of third parties, or if we are unable to gain sufficient rights to use key technologies, our ability to compete would be harmed and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Enforcing and protecting our patents and other proprietary information can be costly. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information or if we become subject to infringement claims by others, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We may need to engage in future litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. We also may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce our patent rights. In addition, we may receive in the future communications from third parties asserting that our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that any such claims would not result in protracted and costly litigation. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources to vigorously defend or enforce our patents or other proprietary technology. Our proprietary information and other intellectual property rights are subject to government use which, in some instances, limits our ability to capitalize on them. Whatever degree of protection, if any, is afforded to us through our patents, proprietary information and other intellectual property generally will not extend to government markets that utilize certain segments of our technology. The government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under government contracts, including portions of our stacked circuitry technology. While we are generally free to commercially exploit these government-funded technologies, and we may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-government users of the same, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our attempts to do so. We are subject to significant competition that could harm our ability to win new business or attract strategic partnerships and could increase the price pressure on our products. We face strong competition from a wide variety of competitors, including large, multinational semiconductor design firms and aerospace firms. Most of our competitors have considerably greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we or our subsidiaries do, which may make it difficult to win new contracts or to attract strategic partners. This competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Certain of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition has in the past resulted in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We believe that this trend may continue in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must continually adapt to unforeseen technological advances, or we may not be able to successfully compete with our competitors. We operate in industries characterized by rapid and continuing technological development and advancements. Accordingly, we anticipate that we will be required to devote substantial resources to improve already technologically complex products. Many companies in these industries devote considerably greater resources to research and development than we do. Developments by any of these companies could have a materially adverse effect on us if we are not able to keep up with the same developments. Our future success will depend on our ability to successfully adapt to any new technological advances in a timely manner, or at all. 25 Table of Contents We do not have long-term employment agreements with our key personnel. If we are not able to retain our key personnel or attract additional key personnel as required, we may not be able to implement our business plan and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued participation of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of any key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have adopted employee equity incentive plans designed to attract and retain key employees, our stock price has declined in recent periods, and we cannot guarantee that options or non-vested stock granted under our plans will be effective in retaining key employees. We do not presently maintain “key man” insurance on any key employees. We believe that, as our activities increase and change in character, additional, experienced personnel will be required to implement our business plan. Competition for such personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that they will be available when required, or that we will have the ability to attract and retain them. In addition, Optex does not presently have depth of staffing in its executive, operational and financial management. Until additional key personnel can be successfully integrated with its operations, the timing or success of which we cannot currently predict, Optex’s results of operations and ultimate success will be vulnerable to difficulties in recruiting a new executive management team and losses of key personnel. We may be subject to additional risks. The risks and uncertainties described above are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 