ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Leverage places burdens on our ability to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, may restrict our ability to operate, may prevent us from fulfilling our obligations and may adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt: •our debt, as of October 31, 2006, including the debt of the subsidiaries that guarantee our debt, was $2,055.3 million ($2,049.8 million net of discount); •as of October 31, 2006, under the terms of our amended and restated $1.5 billion revolving credit agreement and our $250 million revolving and letter of credit facility (after giving effect to the increase in available capacity to $250 million effected in November 2006), we had approximately $1.3 billion of borrowings available (net of approximately $453.4 million in letters of credit outstanding under the facilities) under these facilities, subject, in the case of the revolving credit agreement, to borrowing conditions, including a borrowing base and covenants; and 11 Hovnanian Enterprises, Inc. •our debt service payments for the 12-month period ended October 31, 2006, which include interest incurred and mandatory principal payments on our corporate debt under the terms of our indentures (but which do not include principal and interest on non-recourse secured debt and debt of our financial subsidiaries), was $162.8 million. In addition, we have substantial contractual commitments and contingent obligations, including $453.4 million of performance letters of credit and $967.4 million of performance bonds as of October 31, 2006. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Contractual Obligations". Our amount of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: •limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other requirements; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment on our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; •place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt than some of our competitors; and •make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or in general economic conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend upon our future performance. We are engaged in businesses that are substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. Our businesses are also affected by customer sentiment and financial, political, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through the sale of equity securities, the refinancing of debt, or the sale of assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations, because borrowings under our revolving credit facilities bear interest at floating rates. A higher interest rate on our debt service obligations could result in lower earnings. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and borrowings may not be available to us under our revolving credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. The indentures governing our outstanding debt securities and our revolving credit facility impose restrictions on our operations and activities. The most significant restrictions relate to debt incurrence, sales of assets and cash distributions by us and require us to comply with certain financial covenants listed in those indentures and our revolving credit facility. If we fail to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants, the trustees or the banks, as appropriate, could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity. The terms of our indentures allow us to incur additional indebtedness. Under the terms of our indebtedness under our existing indentures, we have the ability, subject to our debt covenants, to incur additional amounts of debt. The incurrence of additional indebtedness could magnify the risks described above. The homebuilding industry is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, real estate markets and weather conditions, which could affect our ability to build homes at prices our customers are willing or able to pay, could reduce profits that may not be recaptured and could result in cancellation of sales contracts. Although market conditions in the housing industry were strong in recent years, the market has significantly slowed in 2006 in our markets, as new contracts have declined and cancellation rates have increased. The homebuilding industry is cyclical, has from time to time experienced significant difficulties and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions such as: •employment levels and job growth; •availability of financing for home buyers; •interest rates; •consumer confidence; •housing demand; and •population growth. An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and used homes, could depress prices and reduce margins for the sale of new homes. We have substantially increased our inventory in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, which requires significant cash outlays and increases our exposure to this risk. Weather conditions and natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods and fires can 12 Hovnanian Enterprises, Inc. harm the local homebuilding business. Our business in Florida was adversely affected in late 2005 and into 2006 due to the impact of Hurricane Wilma on materials and labor availability and pricing. The difficulties described above could cause us to take longer and incur more costs to build our homes. We may not be able to recapture increased costs by raising prices in many cases because we fix our prices up to twelve months in advance of delivery by signing home sales contracts. In addition, some home buyers may cancel or not honor their home sales contracts altogether. Our success depends on the availability of suitable undeveloped land and improved lots at acceptable prices. Our success in developing land and in building and selling homes depends in part upon the continued availability of suitable undeveloped land and improved lots at acceptable prices. The availability of undeveloped land and improved lots for purchase at favorable prices depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the risk of competitive over-bidding on land and lots and restrictive governmental regulation. Should suitable land opportunities become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell would be reduced, which would reduce revenue and profits. Raw material and labor shortages and price fluctuations could delay or increase the cost of home construction and adversely affect our operating results. The homebuilding industry has from time to time experienced raw material and labor shortages. In particular, shortages and fluctuations in the price of lumber or in other important raw materials could result in delays in the start or completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our residential communities. In addition, we contract with subcontractors to construct our homes. Therefore, the timing and quality of our construction depends on the availability, skill and cost of our subcontractors. Delays or cost increases caused by shortages and price fluctuations could harm our operating results, the impact of which may be further affected by our ability to raise sales prices. Changes in economic and market conditions could result in the sale of homes at a loss or holding land in inventory longer than planned, the cost of which can be significant. Land inventory risk can be substantial for homebuilders. We must continuously seek and make acquisitions of land for expansion into new markets and for replacement and expansion of land inventory within our current markets. The market value of undeveloped land, buildable lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and market conditions. In the event of significant changes in economic or market conditions, we may have to sell homes at a loss or hold land in inventory longer than planned. In the case of land options, we could choose not to exercise them, in which case we would write off the value of these options. Inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing project or market. For example, during 2006 we decided not to exercise many option contracts and walked away from land option deposits and predevelopment costs, which resulted in land option write-offs of $159.1 million. Also, in 2006, as a result of the slowing market, we recorded inventory impairment losses on owned property of $177.1 million. Home prices and sales activities in the California, New Jersey, Texas, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Florida and Arizona markets have a large impact on our profitability because we conduct a significant portion of our business in these markets. We presently conduct a significant portion of our business in the California, New Jersey, Texas, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Florida and Arizona markets. Home prices and sales activities in these markets, including in some of the markets in which we operate, have declined from time to time, particularly as a result of slow economic growth. California, Florida, New Jersey, Virginia and Maryland have slowed in recent months. Furthermore, precarious economic and budget situations at the state government level may adversely affect the market for our homes in those affected areas. If home prices and sales activity decline in one or more of the markets in which we operate, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and profits may be reduced. Because almost all of our customers require mortgage financing, increases in interest rates or the availability of mortgage financing could impair the affordability of our homes, lower demand for our products, limit our marketing effectiveness, and limit our ability to fully realize our backlog. Virtually all our customers finance their acquisitions through lenders providing mortgage financing. Increases in interest rates or decreases in availability of mortgage financing could lower demand for new homes because of the increased monthly mortgage costs to potential home buyers. Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their existing homes to potential buyers who need financing. This could prevent or limit our ability to attract new customers as well as our ability to fully realize our backlog because our sales contracts generally include a financing contingency. Financing contingencies permit the customer to cancel his obligation in the event mortgage financing at prevailing interest rates, including financing arranged or provided by us, is unobtainable within the period specified in the 13 Hovnanian Enterprises, Inc. contract. This contingency period is typically four to eight weeks following the date of execution. In addition, we believe that the availability of FNMA, FHLMC, FHA and VA mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing many of our homes. Any limitations or restrictions on the availability of those types of financing could reduce our sales. Homebuilders are subject to a number of federal, local, state and foreign laws and regulations concerning the development of land, the home building, sales and customer financing processes and protection of the environment, which can cause us to incur delays and costs associated with compliance and which can prohibit or restrict our activity in some regions or areas. We are subject to extensive and complex regulations that affect the development and home building, sales and customer financing processes, including zoning, density, building standards and mortgage financing. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities. This can delay or increase the cost of development or homebuilding. We also are subject to a variety of local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations concerning protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws which apply to any given community vary greatly according to the community site, the site's environmental conditions and the present and former uses of the site. These environmental laws may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation, and/or other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. For example, during 2005, we received requests for information from the Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") pursuant to provisions of the Clean Water Act. These requests sought information concerning storm water discharge practices in connection with completed, ongoing and planned homebuilding projects in the states and district that comprise EPA Region 3. We provided the EPA with information in response to its requests. We have since been advised by the Department of Justice that it will be involved in the review of our storm water discharge practices. We cannot predict the outcome of the review of these practices or estimate the costs that may be involved in resolving the matter. To the extent that the EPA or the DOJ asserts violations of regulatory requirements and request injunctive relief or penalties, we will defend and attempt to resolve such asserted violations. It can be anticipated that increasingly stringent requirements will be imposed on developers and homebuilders in the future. Although we cannot predict the effect of these requirements, they could result in time-consuming and expensive compliance programs and in substantial expenditures, which could cause delays and increase our cost of operations. In addition, the continued effectiveness of permits already granted or approvals already obtained is dependent upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as changes in policies, rules and regulations and their interpretation and application. Our sales and customer financing processes are subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD"). In connection with the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, HUD has inquired about our process of referring business to our affiliated mortgage company and has separately requested documents related to customer financing. We have responded to HUD's inquiries, and the Inspector General of HUD has recommended to the Secretary of HUD that we indemnify HUD for any losses that it may sustain in connection with nine loans that it alleges were improperly underwritten. We cannot predict the outcome of HUD's inquiry or estimate the costs that may be involved in resolving the matter. We do not expect the ultimate cost to be material. We compete on several levels with homebuilders that may have greater sales and financial resources, which could hurt future earnings. We compete not only for home buyers but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor often within larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed by other homebuilders. Our competitors include other local, regional and national homebuilders, some of which have greater sales and financial resources. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry could result in: •difficulty in acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices; •increased selling incentives; •lower sales; or •delays in construction. Any of these problems could increase costs and/or lower profit margins. We may have difficulty in obtaining the additional financing required to operate and develop our business. Our operations require significant amounts of cash, and we may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or borrowing more money, for the future growth and development of our business. The terms or availability of additional capital is uncertain. Moreover, the indentures for our outstanding debt securities contain provisions that may restrict the debt we may incur in the future. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital, it could reduce our sales and may hinder our future growth and results of operations. 14 Hovnanian Enterprises, Inc. Our future growth may include additional acquisitions of companies that may not be successfully integrated and may not achieve expected benefits. Acquisitions of companies have contributed to our growth and are a component of our growth strategy. In March 2005, we acquired Cambridge Homes and Town & Country Homes; in August 2005, we acquired Oster Homes and First Home Builders of Florida and in April 2006, we acquired Craftbuilt Homes. Consistent with this strategy, we continue to engage in discussions with and evaluate potential acquisition targets, some of which may be significant, although we currently have no binding definitive agreements for any significant acquisitions of companies. In the future, we may acquire other businesses. As a result of acquisitions of companies, we may need to seek additional financing and integrate product lines, dispersed operations and distinct corporate cultures. These integration efforts may not succeed or may distract our management from operating our existing business. Additionally, we may not be able to enhance our earnings as a result of acquisitions. Our failure to successfully manage future acquisitions could harm our operating results. Utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our operations. In prior years, the areas in which we operate in California have experienced power shortages, including periods without electrical power, as well as significant fluctuations in utility costs. We may incur additional costs and may not be able to complete construction on a timely basis if such power shortages/outages and utility rate fluctuations continue. Furthermore, power shortages and outages, such as the blackout that occurred in 2003 in the Northeast, and rate fluctuations may adversely affect the regional economies in which we operate, which may reduce demand for our homes. Our operations may be adversely affected if further rate fluctuations and/or power shortages and outages occur in California, the Northeast or in our other markets. Geopolitical risks and market disruption could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Geopolitical events, such as the aftermath of the war with Iraq and the continuing involvement in Iraq, may have a substantial impact on the economy and the housing market. The terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001 had an impact on our business and the occurrence of similar events in the future cannot be ruled out. The war and the continuing involvement in Iraq, terrorism and related geopolitical risks have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may have additional material adverse effects on the U.S. economy, our customers and, in turn, our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 