ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K. The homebuilding industry is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, real estate markets and weather conditions, which could affect our ability to build homes at prices our customers are willing or able to pay, could reduce profits that may not be recaptured, could result in cancellation of sales contracts and could affect our liquidity. The homebuilding industry is cyclical, has from time to time experienced significant difficulties and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions such as: •employment levels and job growth; •availability of financing for home buyers; •interest rates; •foreclosure rates; •inflation; •adverse changes in tax laws; •consumer confidence; •housing demand; and •population growth. Turmoil in the financial markets could affect our liquidity. In addition, our cash balances are held at numerous financial institutions and may, at times, exceed insurable amounts. We believe we help to mitigate this risk by depositing our cash in major financial institutions and diversifying our investments. We also depend upon the lenders under our Revolving Credit Agreement to be able to perform under their commitments. If one or more of our lenders default on their funding obligations, the other lenders are not obligated to make up the shortfall, which would reduce our available liquidity. In addition, it may be difficult to find a bank willing to issue a letter of credit under our Revolving Credit Agreement in such a circumstance. Weather conditions and natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods and fires can harm the local homebuilding business. Our business in Florida was adversely affected in late 2005 and into 2006 due to the impact of Hurricane Wilma on materials and labor availability and pricing. Conversely, Hurricane Ike, which hit Houston in September 2008, did not have an impact on materials and labor 11 Hovnanian Enterprises, Inc. Table of Contents availability or pricing, but did impact the volume of home sales in subsequent weeks. The difficulties described above could cause us to take longer and incur more costs to build our homes. We may not be able to recapture increased costs by raising prices in many cases because we fix our prices up to twelve months in advance of delivery by signing home sales contracts. In addition, some home buyers may cancel or not honor their home sales contracts altogether. The homebuilding industry is undergoing a significant and sustained downturn which has, and could continue to, materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. The homebuilding industry is now experiencing a significant and sustained downturn. An industry-wide softening of demand for new homes has resulted from a lack of consumer confidence, decreased housing affordability, decreased availability of mortgage financing, and large supplies of resale and new home inventories. In addition, an oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties, resale homes and foreclosures, has depressed prices and reduced margins for the sale of new homes. Industry conditions had a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations during fiscal years 2008 and 2007. For example, we are continuing to experience significant declines in sales, significant reductions in our margins and higher cancellations. Further, we substantially increased our inventory through fiscal 2006, which required significant cash outlays and which has increased our price and margin exposure as we continue to work through this inventory. In addition, general economic conditions in the U.S. continue to weaken. Market volatility has been unprecedented and extraordinary in recent months, and the resulting economic turmoil may continue to exacerbate industry conditions or have other unforeseen consequences, leading to uncertainty about future conditions in the homebuilding industry. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. Continuation or worsening of this downturn or general economic conditions would continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. Leverage places burdens on our ability to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, may restrict our ability to operate, may prevent us from fulfilling our obligations and may adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt. On a pro forma basis to give effect to the exchange offer (the "Exchange Offer") in which we issued $29.3 million aggregate principal amount of 18.0% Senior Secured Notes due 2017 in exchange for certain of our unsecured senior notes aggregating $71.4 million on December 3, 2008 (for more details about the Exchange Offer see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements): •our debt, as of October 31, 2008, including the debt of the subsidiaries that guarantee our debt, would have been $2,472.9 million ($2,463.7 million net of discount); •as of October 31, 2008, the aggregate outstanding face amount of letters of credit under our Revolving Credit Agreement would have been $197.5 million and we would have had no outstanding revolving loans (unchanged from the actual amount); and •our debt service payments for the 12-month period ended October 31, 2008, which include interest incurred and mandatory principal payments on our corporate debt under the terms of our indentures (but which do not include principal and interest on non-recourse secured debt and debt of our financial subsidiaries), would have been approximately $168.4 million. In addition, we had substantial contractual commitments and contingent obligations, including $632.5 million of performance bonds as of October 31, 2008. See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Obligations". Our significant amount of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: •limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other requirements; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; •place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt than some of our competitors; and •make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business and general economic conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend upon our future performance. We are engaged in businesses that are substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues 12 Hovnanian Enterprises, Inc. Table of Contents and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. Our businesses are also affected by customer sentiment and financial, political, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through the sale of equity securities, the refinancing of debt, or the sale of assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations, because borrowings under our Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest at floating rates. A higher interest rate on our debt service obligations could result in lower earnings. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and borrowings may not be available to us under our Revolving Credit Agreement in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Under the $300 million Revolving Credit Agreement, the amount available for revolving loans is limited to $100 million, with the remaining amounts available (subject to the borrowing base) for the issuance of letters of credit. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may restrict our ability to operate and if our financial performance worsens, we may not be able to maintain compliance with the financial covenants of our debt instruments. The indentures governing our outstanding debt securities and our Revolving Credit Agreement impose restrictions on our operations and activities. The most significant restrictions relate to debt incurrence, sales of assets, cash distributions, including paying dividends on common and preferred stock, capital stock and debt repurchases, and investments by us and certain of our subsidiaries. The covenants in our Revolving Credit Agreement also include a borrowing base covenant and a covenant requiring either a minimum operating cash flow coverage ratio or minimum liquidity as of the last day of each fiscal quarter but do not contain any other financial covenants. Our level of home deliveries, amount of impairments and other financial performance factors negatively impacted the borrowing base and financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Agreement prior to its amendment in May 2008, and there can be no assurance that we will not violate the financial or other covenants under our debt instruments in the future or that the amount available under our Revolving Credit Agreement would not be reduced. In addition, as a result of the restrictions in our indentures, which would require our fixed charge coverage ratio to be at least 2.0 to 1.0, we are currently restricted from paying dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock. If current market trends continue or worsen, we will continue to be restricted from paying dividends into fiscal 2009 and possibly beyond. If we fail to comply with any of the restrictions or covenants of our debt instruments, and are unable to amend the instrument or obtain a waiver, or make timely payments on this debt and other material indebtedness, we could be precluded from incurring additional borrowings under our Revolving Credit Agreement and the trustees or the banks, as appropriate, could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity. In such a situation, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative financing. In addition, if we are in default of these agreements, we may be prohibited from drawing additional funds under the Revolving Credit Agreement, which could impair our ability to maintain sufficient working capital. Either situation could have a material adverse effect on the solvency of the Company. The terms of our debt instruments allow us to incur additional indebtedness. Under the terms of our indebtedness under our indentures and under the Revolving Credit Agreement, we have the ability, subject to our debt covenants, to incur additional amounts of debt. The incurrence of additional indebtedness could magnify the risks described above. In addition, certain obligations such as standby letters of credit and performance bonds issued in the ordinary course of business are not considered indebtedness under our indentures (and may be secured) and therefore are not subject to limits in our debt covenants. We could be adversely affected by a negative change in our credit rating. Our ability to access capital on favorable terms is a key factor in continuing to grow our business and operations in a profitable manner. On March 26, 2008, Moody's lowered our overall credit rating to B3 from B2 and maintained its negative outlook. On February 2, 2008, S&P lowered our credit rating to B- from B+ and maintained its negative outlook. On January 18, 2008, Fitch lowered the Company's issuer default rating to B- from BB- and placed the Company on negative rating outlook. These downgrades may make it more difficult and costly for us to access capital. A further downgrade by any of the principal credit agencies may exacerbate these difficulties. Our business is seasonal in nature and our quarterly operating results can fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results generally fluctuate by season. Historically, a large percentage of our agreements of sale have been entered into in the 13 Hovnanian Enterprises, Inc. Table of Contents winter and spring. The construction of a customer's home typically begins after signing the agreement of sale and can take 12 months or more to complete. Weather-related problems, typically in the late winter and early spring, can delay starts or closings and increase costs and thus reduce profitability. In addition, delays in opening communities could have an adverse impact on our sales and revenues. Due to these factors, our quarterly operating results may continue to fluctuate. Our success depends on the availability of suitable undeveloped land and improved lots at acceptable prices. Our success in developing land and in building and selling homes depends in part upon the continued availability of suitable undeveloped land and improved lots at acceptable prices. The availability of undeveloped land and improved lots for purchase at favorable prices depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the risk of competitive over-bidding on land and lots and restrictive governmental regulation. Should suitable land opportunities become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell would be reduced, which would reduce revenue and profits. Raw material and labor shortages and price fluctuations could delay or increase the cost of home construction and adversely affect our operating results. The homebuilding industry has from time to time experienced raw material and labor shortages. In particular, shortages and fluctuations in the price of lumber or in other important raw materials could result in delays in the start or completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our residential communities. In addition, we contract with subcontractors to construct our homes. Therefore, the timing and quality of our construction depends on the availability, skill and cost of our subcontractors. Delays or cost increases caused by shortages and price fluctuations could harm our operating results, the impact of which may be further affected depending on our ability to raise sales prices. Changes in economic and market conditions could result in the sale of homes at a loss or holding land in inventory longer than planned, the cost of which can be significant. Land inventory risk can be substantial for homebuilders. We must continuously seek and make acquisitions of land for expansion into new markets and for replacement and expansion of land inventory within our current markets. The market value of undeveloped land, buildable lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and market conditions. In the event of significant changes in economic or market conditions, we may have to sell homes at a loss or hold land in inventory longer than planned. In the case of land options, we could choose not to exercise them, in which case we would write off the value of these options. Inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing project or market. The assessment of communities for indication of impairment is performed quarterly. While we consider available information to determine what we believe to be our best estimates as of the reporting period, these estimates are subject to change in future reporting periods as facts and circumstances change. See "Critical Accounting Policies." For example, during 2008 and 2007 we decided not to exercise many option contracts and walked away from land option deposits and predevelopment costs, which resulted in land option write-offs of $114.1 million and $126.0 million, respectively. Also, in 2008 and 2007, as a result of the slowing market, we recorded inventory impairment losses on owned property of $596.0 million and $331.8 million, respectively. If market conditions continue to worsen, additional inventory impairment losses and land option write-offs will likely be necessary. Home prices and sales activities in the California, New Jersey, Texas, Virginia, Maryland, Florida and Arizona markets have a large impact on our profitability because we conduct a significant portion of our business in these markets. We presently conduct a significant portion of our business in the California, New Jersey, Texas, Virginia, Maryland, Florida and Arizona markets. Home prices and sales activities in these markets, and in most of the other markets in which we operate, have declined from time to time, particularly as a result of slow economic growth. In particular, Arizona, California, Florida, New Jersey, Virginia and Maryland have declined significantly since the end of 2006. Furthermore, precarious economic and budget situations at the state government level may adversely affect the market for our homes in those affected areas. If home prices and sales activity decline in one or more of the markets in which we operate, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and profits may be reduced. 14 Hovnanian Enterprises, Inc. Table of Contents Because almost all of our customers require mortgage financing, increases in interest rates or the decreased availability of mortgage financing could impair the affordability of our homes, lower demand for our products, limit our marketing effectiveness, and limit our ability to fully realize our backlog. Virtually all of our customers finance their acquisitions through lenders providing mortgage financing. Increases in interest rates or decreases in availability of mortgage financing could lower demand for new homes because of the increased monthly mortgage costs to potential home buyers. Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their existing homes to potential buyers who need financing. This could prevent or limit our ability to attract new customers as well as our ability to fully realize our backlog because our sales contracts generally include a financing contingency. Financing contingencies permit the customer to cancel his obligation in the event mortgage financing at prevailing interest rates, including financing arranged or provided by us, is unobtainable within the period specified in the contract. This contingency period is typically four to eight weeks following the date of execution of the sales contract. Over the last several quarters, many lenders have significantly tightened their underwriting standards, and many subprime and other alternative mortgage products are no longer being made available in the marketplace. If these trends continue and mortgage loans continue to be difficult to obtain, the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes will be adversely affected, which will adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we believe that the availability of mortgage financing, including FNMA, FHLMC and FHA / VA financing, is an important factor in marketing many of our homes. Any limitations or restrictions on the availability of those types of financing could reduce our sales. We conduct certain of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest. These investments involve risks and are highly illiquid. We currently operate through a number of unconsolidated homebuilding and land development joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest. At October 31, 2008, we had invested an aggregate of $71.1 million in these joint ventures, which had borrowings outstanding of approximately $320.2 million. In addition, as part of our strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate additional joint venture opportunities. These investments involve risks and are highly illiquid. There are a limited number of sources willing to provide acquisition, development and construction financing to land development and homebuilding joint ventures, and as market conditions become more challenging, it may be difficult or impossible to obtain financing for our joint ventures on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, we lack a controlling interest in these joint ventures and therefore are usually unable to require that our joint ventures sell assets or return invested capital, make additional capital contributions or take any other action without the vote of at least one of our venture partners. Therefore, absent partner agreement, we will be unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. Homebuilders are subject to a number of federal, local, state and foreign laws and regulations concerning the development of land, the home building, sales and customer financing processes and protection of the environment, which can cause us to incur delays and costs associated with compliance and which can prohibit or restrict our activity in some regions or areas. We are subject to extensive and complex regulations that affect the development and home building, sales and customer financing processes, including zoning, density, building standards and mortgage financing. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities. This can delay or increase the cost of development or homebuilding. In addition, some state and local governments in markets where we operate have approved, and others may approve, slow growth or no growth initiatives that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those areas. Approval of these initiatives could adversely affect our ability to build and sell homes in the affected markets and/or could require the satisfaction of additional administrative and regulatory requirements, which could result in slowing the progress or increasing the costs of our homebuilding operations in these markets. Any such delays or costs could have a negative effect on our future revenues and earnings. We also are subject to a variety of local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations concerning protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws which apply to any given community vary greatly according to the community site, the site's environmental conditions and the present and former uses of the site. These environmental laws may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation, and/or other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity. For example, during 2005, we received two requests for information pursuant to Section 308 of the Clean 15 Hovnanian Enterprises, Inc. Table of Contents Water Act from Region 3 of the Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA"). These requests sought information concerning storm water discharge practices in connection with completed, ongoing and planned homebuilding projects by subsidiaries in the states and district that comprise EPA Region 3. We also received a notice of violations for one project in Pennsylvania and requests for sampling plan implementation in two projects in Pennsylvania. We have subsequently received notification from the EPA alleging violations of storm water discharge practices at other locations and requesting related information. We provided the EPA with information in response to its requests. The Department of Justice ("DOJ") is also involved in the review of these practices and enforcement with respect to them. We are engaged in discussions with the DOJ and EPA regarding a resolution of these matters. We cannot predict whether those discussions will result in a resolution, or what any resolution of these matters ultimately will require of us. We anticipate that increasingly stringent requirements will be imposed on developers and homebuilders in the future. Although we cannot predict the effect of these requirements, they could result in time-consuming and expensive compliance programs and in substantial expenditures, which could cause delays and increase our cost of operations. In addition, the continued effectiveness of permits already granted or approvals already obtained is dependent upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as changes in policies, rules and regulations and their interpretation and application. Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. Such claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. In addition, the amount and scope of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited, and this coverage may be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against such claims, we may experience losses that could hurt our financial results. Our financial results could also be adversely affected if we were to experience an unusually high number of claims or unusually severe claims. We compete on several levels with homebuilders that may have greater sales and financial resources, which could hurt future earnings. We compete not only for home buyers but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor often within larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed by other homebuilders. Our competitors include other local, regional and national homebuilders, some of which have greater sales and financial resources. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry together with current market conditions have, and could continue to, result in: •difficulty in acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices; •increased selling incentives; •lower sales; or •delays in construction. Any of these problems could increase costs and/or lower profit margins. We may have difficulty in obtaining the additional financing required to operate and develop our business. Our operations require significant amounts of cash, and we may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or borrowing additional money, for the future growth and development of our business. The terms or availability of additional capital is uncertain. Moreover, the indentures for our outstanding debt securities and our Revolving Credit Agreement contain provisions that restrict the debt we may incur and the equity we may issue in the future. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital, it could reduce our sales and may hinder our future growth and results of operations. In addition, pledging substantially all of our assets to support the Revolving Credit Agreement, the 111/2% Senior Secured Notes due 2013 and the 18.0% Senior Secured Notes due 2017 issued in the Exchange Offer may make it more difficult to raise additional financing in the future. Also, our mortgage business currently operates with working capital from a Mortgage Master Repurchase Agreement that comes due in July 2009. We believe we will be able to extend the Master Repurchase Agreement beyond its expiration date, but there can be no assurance of such extension. Our future growth may include additional acquisitions of companies that may not be successfully integrated and may not achieve expected benefits. Acquisitions of companies have contributed to our historical growth and may again be a component of our growth strategy in the future. In April 2006, we acquired Craftbuilt Homes. In the future, we may acquire other businesses, some of which may be significant. As a result of acquisitions of companies, we may need to seek additional financing and integrate product lines, dispersed operations and distinct corporate cultures. These integration efforts may not succeed or may distract our management from operating our existing business. Additionally, we may not be able to enhance our earnings as a result of acquisitions. Our failure to successfully identify and 16 Hovnanian Enterprises, Inc. Table of Contents manage future acquisitions could harm our operating results. Our controlling stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over us. Kevork S. Hovnanian, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, and Ara K. Hovnanian, our President and Chief Executive Officer, have voting control, through personal holdings and family-owned entities, of Class A and Class B common stock that enables them to cast approximately 72.3% of the votes that may be cast by the holders of our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock combined. Their combined stock ownership enables them to exert significant control over us, including power to control the election of our Board of Directors and to approve matters presented to our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also make some transactions, including mergers or other changes in control, more difficult or impossible without their support. Also, because of their combined voting power, circumstances may occur in which their interests could be in conflict with the interests of other stakeholders. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Based on recent impairments and our current financial performance, we generated a net operating loss carryforward of $404.8 million for the year ending October 31, 2008, and we may generate net operating loss carryforwards in future years. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. If we undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock between 5% shareholders, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and to recognize certain built-in losses would be subject to the limitations of Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. Our inability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. In August 2008, we announced that our Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan designed to preserve shareholder value and the value of certain tax assets primarily associated with net loss carryforwards and built in losses under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details about the shareholder rights plan. Utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our operations. In prior years, the areas in which we operate in California have experienced power shortages, including periods without electrical power, as well as significant fluctuations in utility costs. We may incur additional costs and may not be able to complete construction on a timely basis if such power shortages/outages and utility rate fluctuations continue. Furthermore, power shortages and outages, such as the blackout that occurred in 2003 in the Northeast, and rate fluctuations may adversely affect the regional economies in which we operate, which may reduce demand for our homes. Our operations may be adversely affected if further rate fluctuations and/or power shortages and outages occur in California, the Northeast or in our other markets. Geopolitical risks and market disruption could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Geopolitical events, such as the aftermath of the war with Iraq and the continuing involvement in Iraq, may have a substantial impact on the economy and the housing market. The terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001 had an impact on our business and the occurrence of similar events in the future cannot be ruled out. The war and the continuing involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan, terrorism and related geopolitical risks have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may have additional material adverse effects on the U.S. economy, and our customers and, in turn, our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 