ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In the course of conducting its business operations, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the financial services industry and others of which are more specific to its own business. The following discussion addresses some of the key risks that could affect the Company’s business, operations, and financial condition. Other factors that could affect the Company’s financial condition and operations are discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents the Company files with the SEC. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks faced by the Company and additional risks that the Company may currently view as not material may also impair its business, operations and financial condition. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the Company’s business. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing difficulty for more than three years. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write downs of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and high unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. These economic conditions and tightening of credit have led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the economy and financial markets has adversely affected the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, the Company may face the following risks in connection with these events, or any downward turn in the economy: • while increased regulation and enforcement is now certain in the financial sector, with increased compliance costs, the scope of such regulation is uncertain, and that uncertainty adversely affects the Company’s business opportunities and plans. • the process the Company uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of these estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • the Company’s commercial, residential and consumer borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the decrease in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans could result in significant credit losses, increasing delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. • the value of the Company’s portfolio of investment securities may be adversely affected by increasing interest rates and defaults by debtors. • further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. 25 Table of Contents • increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions may adversely affect the Company’s ability to market its products and services. In view of the concentration of the Company’s operations and the collateral securing the loan portfolio in California, as well as the concentration in commercial real estate loans, the Company may be particularly susceptible to the adverse economic conditions in the State of California and in the eight counties where the Company’s business is concentrated. The Company and the Bank continue to be subject to certain agreements with their regulators. The Company remains subject to enhanced supervisory review pursuant to the Written Agreement, and the Bank remains subject to enhanced supervisory review pursuant to the Consent Order and Operating Agreement. See “Regulation and Supervision—Current Regulatory Matters” for a discussion of the terms of the Written Agreement, Consent Order and Operating Agreement. While the Company and the Bank have made every effort necessary to comply with the requirements of the Written Agreement, Consent Order and Operating Agreement, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to comply fully with the provisions of the Written Agreement or that the Bank will be able to comply fully with the provisions of the Consent Order and Operating Agreement, that compliance with the Written Agreement, Consent Order and Operating Agreement will not be more time consuming or more expensive than anticipated, that compliance with the Written Agreement, Consent Order and Operating Agreement will enable the Company and the Bank to sustain profitable operations, or that efforts to comply with the Written Agreement, Consent Order and Operating Agreement will not have adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of the Company or the Bank. In addition, the Company and the Bank cannot determine whether or when the Written Agreement, Consent Order and Operating Agreement will be lifted or terminated. Even if they are lifted or terminated, in whole or in part, the Company and the Bank may remain subject to supervisory enforcement actions that restrict their activities. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC and the FDIC. As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to regulation and oversight by the Reserve Board. Federal and State regulation is designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, and not to benefit the Company’s shareholders. Recent government efforts to strengthen the U.S. financial system have resulted in the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, including expansive financial services regulatory reform legislation in the form of Dodd-Frank. Dodd- Frank will have material implications for the Company and the entire financial services industry. Among other things it will or potentially could: • affect the levels of capital and liquidity with which the Company must operate and how the Company plans capital and liquidity levels; • subject the Company to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the FDIC; • impact the Company’s ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities; • restrict the nature of the Company’s incentive compensation programs for executive officers; • subject the Company to a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; and • subject the Company to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks. 26 Table of Contents The full impact of this legislation on the Company and its business strategies and financial performance cannot be known at this time, and may not be known for a number of years. However, these impacts are expected to be substantial and some of them are likely to adversely affect the Company and its financial performance. Other regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions, such as Dodd-Frank, are undergoing continuous review and change frequently; the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Because the Company’s business is highly regulated, compliance with such regulations and laws may increase its costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations will not be adopted in the future, which could (i) make compliance much more difficult or expensive, (ii) restrict the Company’s ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (iii) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by the Company, or (iv) otherwise materially and adversely affect the Company’s business or prospects for business. The Company may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. Dodd-Frank requires the federal banking agencies to establish stricter risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits to apply to banks and bank holding companies. In addition, the “Basel III” standards recently announced by the Basel Committee, if adopted, could lead to significantly higher capital requirements, higher capital charges and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios. The standards would, among other things, impose more restrictive eligibility requirements for Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital; increase the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5%, net of regulatory deductions, and introduce a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5% of common equity to risk-weighted assets, raising the target minimum common equity ratio to 7%; increase the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.5% inclusive of the capital conservation buffer; increase the minimum total capital ratio to 10.5% inclusive of the capital buffer; and introduce a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of common equity or other fully loss absorbing capital for periods of excess credit growth. Basel III also introduces a non-risk adjusted Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%, based on a measure of total exposure rather than total assets, and new liquidity standards. The new Basel III capital standards will be phased in from January 1, 2013 until January 1, 2019, and it is not yet known how these standards will be implemented by U.S. regulators generally or how they will be applied to financial institutions of the Company’s size. Implementation of these standards, or any other new regulations, may adversely affect the Company’s ability to pay dividends, or require it to restrict growth or raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that the Company could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. This risk is normally addressed by means of an allowance for loan losses in the amount of Management’s estimate of losses inherent in the Company’s loan portfolio. As explained in Note 2, “Business Combination—Investment Transaction” to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company was required under generally accepted accounting principles to estimate the fair value of its loan portfolio after the close of business on August 31, 2010 (the “Transaction Date”) and write the portfolio down to that estimate. For most loans, this meant computing the net present value of estimated cash flows to be received from borrowers. The ALLL that had been maintained as an estimate of losses inherent in the loan portfolio was eliminated in this accounting. A new ALLL will be established for loans made subsequent to the Transaction Date and for any subsequent lowering of the estimate of cash flows to be received from the PCI loans held. The estimate of fair value as of the Transaction Date was based on economic conditions at the time and on Management’s projections regarding both future economic conditions and the ability of the 27 Table of Contents Company’s borrowers to continue to repay their loans. However, the estimate of fair value may prove to be overly optimistic and the Company may suffer losses in excess of those estimated as of that date. The ALLL established for new loans or for revised estimates may prove to be inadequate to cover actual losses especially if economic conditions worsen. While Management believes that both the estimate of fair value and the ALLL are adequate to cover current losses, no underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that the Company could adopt to address credit risk could provide complete assurance that there will not be unexpected losses. These losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, federal regulators periodically evaluate the adequacy of the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different from those of Management. A substantial portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is comprised of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans. At December 31, 2010, $1.75 billion, or 46.4% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. These commercial real estate loans constituted a greater percentage of the Company’s loan portfolio than any other loan category, including 1 to 4 family residential real estate loans, which totaled $897.5 million, or 23.9%, of the Company’s loan portfolio, and commercial loans, which totaled $266.7 million, or 7.1%, of the Company’s loan portfolio. Commercial real estate loans and commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than one to four family loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and/or the income stream of the borrower. Commercial loans expose the Company to additional risks since they are generally secured by business assets that may depreciate over time. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one to four family loans. Also, many of the Company’s commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with the Company. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one to four family loan. Changes in economic conditions that are out of the control of the borrower and lender could impact the value of the security for the loan, the future cash flow of the affected property or borrower, or the marketability of a construction project with respect to loans originated for the acquisition and development of property. Additionally, any decline in real estate values may be more pronounced with respect to commercial real estate properties than residential real estate properties. Liquidity risk could impair the Company’s ability to fund operations and jeopardize its financial condition. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities could be impaired by factors that affect it specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Company’s access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of the Company’s business activity due to a market downturn, adverse regulatory action against the Company or the Bank, a reduction in the Company’s credit ratings, an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in the Company. The Company’s ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to it, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. 28 Table of Contents The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. A substantial portion of the Company’s income is derived from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. With fixed rate assets (such as fixed rate loans and investment securities) and liabilities (such as certificates of deposit), the effect on net interest income depends on the cash flows associated with the maturity of the asset or liability. Asset/liability management policy may not be successfully implemented and from time to time the Company’s risk position is not balanced. An unanticipated rapid decrease or increase in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore on the level of net interest income. For instance, any rapid increase in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of fixed rate loans and longer term investments. Further, substantially higher interest rates could reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth than previously experienced. This could have an adverse negative effect on the Company’s earnings. The Company’s interest expense may increase following the repeal of the federal prohibition on payment of interest on demand deposits. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of Dodd-Frank. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. The Company does not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. The Company’s interest expense will increase and its net interest margin will decrease if it begins offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, net income and results of operations. Market and other constraints on the Company’s loan origination volumes may lead to continued pressure on its interest and fee income. Due to the poor economic conditions in the markets in which the Company operates and other factors, the Company expects continued pressure on new loan originations in the near term. If the Company is unable to increase loan volumes, there will be continued pressure on its interest income and fees generated from its lending operations. Unless the Company is able to offset the lower interest income and fees with increased activity in other areas of its operations, its total revenues may decline relative to its total noninterest expenses. The Company expects that it may be difficult to find new revenue sources in the near term. Increased deposit insurance costs may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. As a result of a series of financial institution failures and other market developments, the DIF has been significantly depleted and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of Dodd-Frank, the FDIC has revised the deposit insurance assessment base and deposit premiums are expected to increase for many insured depository institutions. The Bank is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures or if the FDIC otherwise determines, the Bank may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums. These increases and any future increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material and adverse affect on the Company’s earnings. 29 Table of Contents Acquisitions present many risks, and the Company may not realize the financial and strategic goals that are contemplated at the time of any future acquisitions. The Company’s growth strategy includes an intent to acquire other banks. This strategy entails substantial risk. Acquisitions and related transition and integration activities may disrupt the Company’s ongoing business and divert Management’s attention. In addition, an acquisition may not further the Company’s corporate strategy as expected, the Company may pay more than the acquired banks or assets are ultimately worth, or the Company may not integrate an acquired bank or assets as successfully as expected. The Company may be adversely affected by liabilities or pre-existing contractual relationships that it assumes and may also fail to anticipate or accurately estimate litigation or other exposure, unfavorable accounting consequences, increases in taxes due or a loss of anticipated tax benefits. Other potential adverse consequences include higher than anticipated costs associated with the acquired bank or assets or integration activities. The use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit the Company’s use of cash for other potential activities, such as dividends, while the use of equity securities to pay for acquisitions could significantly dilute existing shareholders. If the Company uses debt to finance acquisitions, the Company’s expenses, leverage and debt service requirements may significantly increase. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a large acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. As a bank holding company, the Company is substantially dependent on its subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. Substantially all of the Company’s activities are conducted through the Bank, and, consequently, as the parent company of the Bank, the principal source of funds from which the Company services debt and pays its obligations and dividends is the receipt of dividends from the Bank. Pursuant to the Operating Agreement, the Bank may not pay a dividend or make a capital distribution to the Company until September 2, 2013. From and after September 2, 2013, the Bank may not pay a dividend or make a capital distribution to the Company without the prior written consent of the OCC. The Written Agreement also restricts the Company from taking any dividends or any other payment representing a reduction in capital from the Bank without the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. While the Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet its debt service obligations for the foreseeable future, a prolonged inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. The Company is currently not able to pay dividends on its common stock. The Company exercised its right to defer regularly scheduled interest payments on its outstanding junior subordinated notes related to trust preferred securities in the second quarter of 2009. The Company may not pay any cash dividends on its common stock until it is current on interest payments on such subordinated notes. Under the terms of the Written Agreement, the Company may not end the deferral of interest on the junior subordinated notes or pay cash dividends on its common stock without the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. The Company may also generally not pay any cash dividends on its common stock without the U.S. Treasury’s consent until the earlier of November 21, 2011 or such time as the U.S. Treasury ceases to own any debt or equity securities acquired pursuant to the Exchange Agreement or its warrant. The Company has deferred regularly scheduled interest payments on its junior subordinated notes relating to its trust preferred securities. In the second quarter of 2009, the Company elected to defer regularly scheduled interest payments on its outstanding $69.4 million of junior subordinated notes relating to its trust preferred securities. 30 Table of Contents During the deferral period, interest will continue to accrue on the junior subordinated notes at the stated coupon rate, including the deferred interest. Under the terms of the Written Agreement, the Company may not end the deferral of interest on the junior subordinated notes without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank. As a result of this deferral of interest, it is likely that the Company will not be able to raise funds through the offering of debt securities until it becomes current on those obligations or those obligations are restructured. This deferral may also adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain debt financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, the Company will likely have greater difficulty in obtaining financing and, thus, will have fewer sources to enhance its capital and liquidity position. In addition, if the Company defers interest payments on the junior subordinated notes for more than 20 consecutive quarters, the Company would be in default under the governing agreements for such notes and the amount due under such agreements would be immediately due and payable. The Company faces strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services. The Company faces increased strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services. The Company conducts most of its operations in California. Increased competition in its markets may result in a reduction in loans or deposits it may acquire. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings institutions, industrial banks, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, the Company’s competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. If the Company is unable to attract and retain banking customers, it may be unable to continue loan growth and level of deposits. The actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions could affect the Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to different industries and counterparties, and executes transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Defaults by financial services institutions, even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general, could lead to market wide liquidity problems and further, could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may increase when the presumed value of collateral held by it cannot be realized or can only be liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company faces operational risks that may result in unexpected losses. The Company faces various operational risks that arise from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, failures in internal controls, breaches of security systems, fraud, the 31 Table of Contents execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, or any number of unforeseen catastrophes could result in unexpected losses. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintains insurance coverage for such risks, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by the Company’s internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company relies on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third party service providers, and it may suffer an interruption in those systems. The Company relies heavily on third party service providers for much of its communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including its internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing, and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require the Company to identify alternative sources of such services. The Company may not be able to negotiate terms that are as favorable to it, or may not be able to obtain services with similar functionality as found in its existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. In the course of its business, the Company may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Company may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and cleanup costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, the Company may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If the Company ever became subject to significant environmental liabilities, its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A natural disaster could harm the Company’s business. Historically, California, in which a substantial portion of the Company's business is located, has been susceptible to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and wild fires. The nature and level of natural disasters cannot be predicted. These natural disasters could harm the Company's operations through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of the Company's computer systems, which could prevent or impede the Company from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling its flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and the Company's operational, financial and management information systems. Additionally, natural disasters could negatively impact the values of collateral securing the Company's loans and interrupt borrowers’ abilities to conduct their business in a manner to support their debt obligations, either of which could result in losses and increased provisions for loan losses. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. Threats to the Company’s reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial services institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver 32 Table of Contents minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. The Company has policies and procedures in place to protect its reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding the Company’s business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation. The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect its prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the California banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out the Company’s strategies is often lengthy. In addition, legislation and regulations which impose restrictions on executive compensation may make it more difficult for the Company to retain and recruit key personnel. The Company’s success depends to a significant degree upon its ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing, and technical personnel, and upon the continued contributions of its management and personnel. In particular, the Company’s success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including its Chief Executive Officer, and certain other employees. The Company may issue securities that could dilute the ownership of its existing shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of its common stock. The Company may elect to raise capital in the future to enhance its capital levels, improve its capital ratios, provide capital for acquisitions, increase liquidity available for operations and other opportunities, or for other reasons. If the Company raises funds by issuing equity securities or instruments that are convertible into equity securities, the percentage ownership of its existing shareholders will be reduced, the new equity securities may have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of its common stock and additional issuances could be at a purchase price that is lower than the available market price for its common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock, preferred stock or similar securities in the market as a result of future sales of common stock or the perception that such sales could occur. The Company may also issue equity securities as consideration for acquisitions that could be dilutive to existing shareholders. As a “controlled company,” the Company is exempt from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. The Company’s common stock is currently traded on NASDAQ. NASDAQ generally requires a majority of directors to be independent and requires independent director oversight over the nominating and executive compensation functions. However, under the rules applicable to NASDAQ, if another company owns more than 50% of the voting power of a listed company, that company is considered a “controlled company” and is exempt from rules relating to independence of the board of directors and the compensation and nominating committees. The Company is a controlled company because SB Acquisition beneficially owns more than 50% of the Company’s outstanding voting stock. Accordingly, the Company is exempt from certain corporate governance requirements and holders of the Company’s common stock may not have all the protections that these rules are intended to provide. 33 Table of Contents A majority of the Company’s common stock is held by a single shareholder. SB Acquisition owns approximately 76.0% of the Company’s outstanding common stock and has two representatives on the Board of Directors. Accordingly, SB Acquisition has a controlling influence over the election of directors to the Board of Directors and over corporate policy, including decisions to enter into mergers or other extraordinary transactions. In pursuing its economic interests, SB Acquisition may make decisions with respect to fundamental corporate transactions that may be different from the decisions of other shareholders. The price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside the Company’s control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Among the factors that could affect stock price are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in the Company’s operating results and financial condition; • changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts with respect to the Company’s common stock or those of other financial institutions; • failure to meet analysts’ loan and deposit volume, revenue, asset quality or earnings expectations; • speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to the Company’s reputation or the financial services industry; • actions by the Company’s shareholders, including sales of common stock by existing shareholders and/or directors and executive officers; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of the Company’s competitors; • future sales of the Company’s equity or equity-related securities; • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; • investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involve or affect the Company; • the performance of the national and California economy and the real estate markets in California; or • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry. The trading volume of the Company’s common stock is limited. The Company’s common stock trades on NASDAQ under the symbol “PCBC” and trading volume is modest. The limited trading market for the Company’s common stock may lead to exaggerated fluctuations in market prices and possible market inefficiencies, as compared to a more actively traded stock. It may also make it more difficult to dispose of such common stock at expected prices, especially for holders seeking to dispose of a large number of such stock. Resales of the Company’s common stock in the public market may cause the market price of the common stock to fall. The Company has provided customary registration rights to SB Acquisition, which owns approximately 76.0% of the Company’s outstanding common stock, and to the U.S. Treasury, which 34 Table of Contents owns approximately 11.0% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. If either SB Acquisition or the U.S. Treasury elects to sell its shares, such sales or attempted sales could result in significant downward pressure on the market price of the common stock and actual price declines. The Company’s common stock is equity and therefore is subordinate to the Company’s indebtedness and any preferred stock. Shares of the Company’s common stock are equity interests in the Company, do not constitute indebtedness, and, therefore, are not insured against loss by the FDIC or by any other public or private entity. Such common stock will rank junior to all indebtedness and other non-equity claims on the Company with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on the Company, including in a liquidation of the Company. Additionally, holders of such common stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of any holders of our preferred stock then outstanding. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact the Company’s shareholders. Various provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain other actions the Company has taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring control of it even if doing so might be beneficial to its shareholders. These include, among other things, the authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock by action of the Board of Directors acting alone, thus without obtaining stockholder approval. The BHCA and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either regulatory approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the appropriate regulatory agencies and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a national bank, such as the Bank. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to shareholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for the Company’s common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 