ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report Form 10-K, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto. The homebuilding industry is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, real estate markets, and weather and other environmental conditions, which could affect our ability to build homes at prices our customers are willing or able to pay, could reduce profits that may not be recaptured, could result in cancellation of sales contracts, and could affect our liquidity. 11 The homebuilding industry is cyclical, has from time to time experienced significant difficulties, and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions such as: · Employment levels and job growth; · Availability of financing for home buyers; · Interest rates; · Foreclosure rates; · Inflation; · Adverse changes in tax laws; · Consumer confidence; · Housing demand; · Population growth; and · Availability of water supply in locations in which we operate. Turmoil in the financial markets could affect our liquidity. In addition, our cash balances are primarily invested in short-term government-backed instruments. The remaining cash balances are held at numerous financial institutions and may, at times, exceed insurable amounts. We seek to mitigate this risk by depositing our cash in major financial institutions and diversifying our investments. In addition, our homebuilding operations often require us to obtain letters of credit. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we terminated our revolving credit facility and refinanced the borrowing capacity thereunder. In addition, we entered into certain stand alone letter of credit facilities, and agreements pursuant to which all of the outstanding letters of credit under our revolving credit facility were replaced with letters of credit issued under such new letter of credit facilities and agreements. However, we may need additional letters of credit above the amounts provided under these new letter of credit facilities and agreements. If we are unable to obtain such additional letters of credit as needed to operate our business, we may be adversely affected. Weather conditions and natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, droughts, fires and other environmental conditions can harm the local homebuilding business. For example, our business in Florida was adversely affected in late 2005 and into 2006 due to the effects of Hurricane Wilma on materials and labor availability and pricing. Conversely, Hurricane Ike, which hit Houston in September 2008, did not have an effect on materials and labor availability or pricing, but did affect the volume of home sales in subsequent weeks. In August 2011, Hurricane Irene caused widespread flooding and disruptions on the Atlantic seaboard, which impacted our sales and construction activity in affected markets during that month. The difficulties described above could cause us to take longer and incur more costs to build our homes. We may not be able to recapture increased costs by raising prices in many cases because we fix our prices up to 12 months in advance of delivery by signing home sales contracts. In addition, some home buyers may cancel or not honor their home sales contracts altogether. The homebuilding industry is undergoing a significant and sustained downturn which has, and could continue to, materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, and results of operations. The homebuilding industry is now experiencing a significant and sustained downturn. An industry-wide softening of demand for new homes has resulted from a lack of consumer confidence, decreased availability of mortgage financing, and large supplies of resale and new home inventories, among other factors. In addition, an oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties, resale homes, and foreclosures, has depressed prices and reduced margins for the sale of new homes. Industry conditions had a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations in fiscal years 2007 through 2011 and may continue to materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in future years as we do not predict a sustained upturn in the near term. Further, we substantially increased our inventory through fiscal 2006, which required significant cash outlays and which has increased our price and margin exposure as we continue to work through this inventory. Looking forward, if the housing market continues to deteriorate, it will continue to be difficult to generate positive cash flow especially as we invest in land to fund future homebuilding. General economic conditions in the U.S. remain weak. Market volatility has been unprecedented and extraordinary in the last several years, and the resulting economic turmoil may continue to exacerbate industry conditions or have other unforeseen consequences, leading to uncertainty about future conditions in the homebuilding industry. Continuation or worsening of this downturn or general economic conditions would continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, and results of operations. 12 In addition, an increase in the default rate on the mortgages we originate may adversely affect our ability to sell mortgages or the pricing we receive upon the sale of mortgages. Although substantially all of the mortgage loans we originate are sold in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis, we remain liable for certain limited representations, such as fraud, and warranties related to loan sales. As default rates rise, this may increase our potential exposure regarding mortgage loan sales because investors may seek to have us buy back or make whole investors for mortgages we previously sold. To date, we have not made significant payments related to our mortgage loans but because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, actual future payments could differ significantly from our currently estimated amounts. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets, or increase liquidity and the availability of credit, or whether any such results will be sustainable. The housing market has benefited from a number of government programs, including: · Tax credits for home buyers provided by the federal government and certain state governments, including California; and · Support of the mortgage market, including through purchases of mortgage-backed securities by The Federal Reserve Bank and the underwriting of a substantial amount of new mortgages by the Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”) and other governmental agencies. These programs are expected to wind down over time; for example the California tax credit ended in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and the federal tax credit expired in April 2010. In addition, in fiscal 2010, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) tightened FHA underwriting standards. The maximum size of mortgage loans that are treated as conforming by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac was reduced on October 1, 2011, which could further weaken home sales, as mortgages may become more expensive. Housing markets may further decline as these programs are modified or terminated. Our leverage places burdens on our ability to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, may restrict our ability to operate, may prevent us from fulfilling our obligations, and may adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt. · Our debt (excluding nonrecourse secured debt and debt of our financial subsidiaries), as of October 31, 2011, including the debt of the subsidiaries that guarantee our debt, was $1,617.4 million ($1,602.8 million net of discount); and · Our debt service payments for the 12-month period ended October 31, 2011 were $157.3 million, substantially all of which represented interest incurred and the remainder of which represented payments on the principal of the Amortizing Notes as defined below, and do not include principal and interest on nonrecourse secured debt, debt of our financial subsidiaries and fees under our letter of credit facilities and agreements. In addition, as of October 31, 2011, we had $54.1 million in aggregate outstanding face amount of letters of credit issued under various letter of credit facilities and agreements, which were collateralized by $57.7 million of cash. Our fees for these letters of credit for the 12 months ended October 31, 2011, which are based on both the used and unused portion of the facilities and agreements, were $0.9 million. We also had substantial contractual commitments and contingent obligations, including approximately $313.1 million of performance bonds as of October 31, 2011. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Contractual Obligations.” 13 Our significant amount of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: · Limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, or other requirements; · Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes; · Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; · Place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt than some of our competitors; and · Make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business and general economic conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend upon our future performance. We are engaged in businesses that are substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. Our businesses are also affected by customer sentiment and financial, political, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through the sale of equity securities, the refinancing of debt, or the sale of assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations to the extent we have any floating rate indebtedness. A higher interest rate on our debt service obligations could result in lower earnings or increased losses. Our sources of liquidity are limited and may not be sufficient to meet our needs. In connection with the issuance of our 10 5/8% Senior Secured Notes due 2016 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we terminated our revolving credit facility and refinanced the borrowing capacity thereunder. Because we no longer have a revolving credit facility, we are dependent on our current cash balance and future cash flows from operations (which may not be positive) to enable us to service our indebtedness, to cover our operating expenses, and/or to fund our other liquidity needs. We used $207.4 million in operating activities in the fiscal year ended October 31, 2011, and expect to continue to generate negative cash flow, after taking into account land purchases. If the homebuilding industry does not experience improved conditions over the next several years, our cash flows could be insufficient to fund our obligations and support land purchases; if we cannot buy additional land we would ultimately be unable to generate future revenues from the sale of houses. In addition, we may need to further refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our debt service obligations. We have also entered into certain cash collateralized letter of credit agreements and facilities that require us to maintain specified amounts of cash in segregated accounts as collateral to support our letters of credit issued thereunder, which will affect the amount of cash we have available for other uses. If our available cash and capital resources are insufficient to meet our debt service and other obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. For additional information about capital resources and liquidity, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Resources and Liquidity.” Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may restrict our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to operate and if our financial performance worsens, we may not be able to undertake transactions within the restrictions of our debt instruments. The indentures governing our outstanding debt securities impose certain restrictions on our and certain of our subsidiaries’ operations and activities. The most significant restrictions relate to debt incurrence, creating liens, sales of assets, cash distributions, including paying dividends on common and preferred stock, capital stock and debt repurchases, and investments by us and certain of our subsidiaries. Because of these restrictions, we are currently prohibited from paying dividends on our common and preferred stock and anticipate that we will remain prohibited for the foreseeable future. 14 The restrictions in our debt instruments could prohibit or restrict our and certain of our subsidiaries’ activities such as undertaking capital raising or restructuring activities or entering into other transactions. In such a situation, we may be unable to amend the instrument or obtain a waiver. In addition, if we fail to make timely payments on this debt and other material indebtedness, our debt under these debt instruments could become due and payable prior to maturity. In such a situation, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative financing. Either situation could have a material adverse effect on the solvency of the Company. The terms of our debt instruments allow us to incur additional indebtedness. Under the terms of our indebtedness under our indentures, we have the ability, subject to our debt covenants, to incur additional amounts of debt. The incurrence of additional indebtedness could magnify the risks described above. In addition, certain obligations such as standby letters of credit and performance bonds issued in the ordinary course of business, including those issued under our stand-alone letter of credit agreements and facilities, are not considered indebtedness under our indentures (and may be secured), and therefore, are not subject to limits in our debt covenants. We could be adversely affected by a negative change in our credit rating. Our ability to access capital on favorable terms is a key factor in our ability to service our indebtedness to cover our operating expenses, and to fund our other liquidity needs. During fiscal 2011 and thereafter, credit agencies took a series of negative actions, including downgrades, with respect to their credit ratings of us and our debt. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Downgrades may make it more difficult and costly for us to access capital. Therefore, any further downgrade by any of the principal credit agencies may exacerbate these difficulties. There can be no assurances that our credit ratings will not be further downgraded in the future, whether as a result of deteriorating general economic conditions, a more protracted downturn in the housing industry, failure to successfully implement our operating strategy, the adverse impact on our results of operations or liquidity position of any of the above, or otherwise. Our business is seasonal in nature and our quarterly operating results can fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results generally fluctuate by season. The construction of a customer’s home typically begins after signing the agreement of sale and can take 12 months or more to complete. Weather-related problems, typically in the fall, late winter and early spring, can delay starts or closings and increase costs and thus reduce profitability. In addition, delays in opening communities could have an adverse effect on our sales and revenues. Due to these factors, our quarterly operating results will likely continue to fluctuate. Our success depends on the availability of suitable undeveloped land and improved lots at acceptable prices and our having sufficient liquidity to fund such investments. Our success in developing land and in building and selling homes depends in part upon the continued availability of suitable undeveloped land and improved lots at acceptable prices. The availability of undeveloped land and improved lots for purchase at favorable prices depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the risk of competitive over-bidding on land and lots and restrictive governmental regulation. Should suitable land opportunities become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell would be reduced, which would reduce revenue and profits. In addition, our ability to make land purchases will depend upon us having sufficient liquidity to fund such purchases. We may be at a disadvantage in competing for land due to our significant debt obligations, which require substantial cash resources. Raw material and labor shortages and price fluctuations could delay or increase the cost of home construction and adversely affect our operating results. The homebuilding industry has from time to time experienced raw material and labor shortages. In particular, shortages and fluctuations in the price of lumber or in other important raw materials could result in delays in the start or completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our residential communities. In addition, we contract with subcontractors to construct our homes. Therefore, the timing and quality of our construction depends on the availability, skill, and cost of our subcontractors. Delays or cost increases caused by shortages and price fluctuations could harm our operating results, the impact of which may be further affected depending on our ability to raise sales prices to offset increased costs. 15 Changes in economic and market conditions could result in the sale of homes at a loss or holding land in inventory longer than planned, the cost of which can be significant. Land inventory risk can be substantial for homebuilders. We must continuously seek and make acquisitions of land for expansion into new markets and for replacement and expansion of land inventory within our current markets. The market value of undeveloped land, buildable lots, and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and market conditions. In the event of significant changes in economic or market conditions, we may have to sell homes at a loss or hold land in inventory longer than planned. In the case of land options, we could choose not to exercise them, in which case we would write off the value of these options. Inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing project or market. The assessment of communities for indication of impairment is performed quarterly. While we consider available information to determine what we believe to be our best estimates as of the reporting period, these estimates are subject to change in future reporting periods as facts and circumstances change. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Critical Accounting Policies.” For example, during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, we decided not to exercise many option contracts and walked away from land option deposits and predevelopment costs, which resulted in land option write-offs of $24.3 million, $13.2 million and $45.4 million, respectively. Also, in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, as a result of the difficult market conditions, we recorded inventory impairment losses on owned property of $77.5 million, $122.5 million and $614.1 million, respectively. If market conditions continue to worsen, additional inventory impairment losses and land option write-offs will likely be necessary. Home prices and sales activities in the California, Maryland, New Jersey, Texas and Virginia markets have a large impact on our results of operations because we conduct a significant portion of our business in these markets. We presently conduct a significant portion of our business in the California, Maryland, New Jersey, Texas and Virginia markets. Home prices and sales activities in these markets and in most of the other markets in which we operate have declined from time to time, particularly as a result of slow economic growth. In particular, market conditions in California, Maryland, New Jersey and Virginia have declined significantly since the end of 2006. Furthermore, precarious economic and budget situations at the state government level may adversely affect the market for our homes in those affected areas. If home prices and sales activity decline in one or more of the markets in which we operate, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and may negatively impact our results of operations. Because almost all of our customers require mortgage financing, increases in interest rates or the decreased availability of mortgage financing could impair the affordability of our homes, lower demand for our products, limit our marketing effectiveness, and limit our ability to fully realize our backlog. Virtually all of our customers finance their acquisitions through lenders providing mortgage financing. Increases in interest rates or decreases in availability of mortgage financing could lower demand for new homes because of the increased monthly mortgage costs to potential home buyers. Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their existing homes to potential buyers who need financing. This could prevent or limit our ability to attract new customers as well as our ability to fully realize our backlog because our sales contracts generally include a financing contingency. Financing contingencies permit the customer to cancel its obligation in the event mortgage financing at prevailing interest rates, including financing arranged or provided by us, is unobtainable within the period specified in the contract. This contingency period is typically four to eight weeks following the date of execution of the sales contract. Starting in 2007, many lenders have been significantly tightening their underwriting standards, and subprime and other alternative mortgage products are no longer being made available in the marketplace. If these trends continue and mortgage loans continue to be difficult to obtain, the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes will be adversely affected, which will adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we believe that the availability of mortgage financing, including Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp, and FHA/VA financing, is an important factor in marketing many of our homes. The maximum size of mortgage loans that are treated as conforming by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac was reduced on October 1, 2011, which could further weaken home sales, as mortgages may become more expensive. In addition, in fiscal 2010, HUD tightened FHA underwriting standards. Any limitations or restrictions on the availability of those types of financing could reduce our sales. 16 Increases in the after-tax costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business or financial results. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expenses and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, income taxes, subject to limitations under current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state government were to change its income tax laws to eliminate or substantially limit these income tax deductions, as has been discussed from time to time, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase for many of our potential customers. The loss or reduction of these homeowner tax deductions, if such tax law changes were enacted without any offsetting legislation, would adversely impact demand for and sales prices of new homes, including ours. In addition, increases in property tax rates or fees on developers by local governmental authorities, as experienced in response to reduced federal and state funding or to fund local initiatives such as funding schools or road improvements, can adversely affect the ability of potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to purchase new homes, and can have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We conduct certain of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest. These investments involve risks and are highly illiquid. We currently operate through a number of unconsolidated homebuilding and land development joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest. At October 31, 2011, we had invested an aggregate of $57.8 million in these joint ventures, including advances to these joint ventures of approximately $11.7 million. In addition, as part of our strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate additional joint venture opportunities. These investments involve risks and are highly illiquid. There are a limited number of sources willing to provide acquisition, development, and construction financing to land development and homebuilding joint ventures, and as market conditions become more challenging, it may be difficult or impossible to obtain financing for our joint ventures on commercially reasonable terms. Recently, we have been unable to obtain financing for newly created joint ventures. In addition, we lack a controlling interest in these joint ventures and, therefore, are usually unable to require that our joint ventures sell assets or return invested capital, make additional capital contributions, or take any other action without the vote of at least one of our venture partners. Therefore, absent partner agreement, we will be unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. Homebuilders are subject to a number of federal, local, state, and foreign laws and regulations concerning the development of land, the homebuilding, sales and customer financing processes and the protection of the environment, which can cause us to incur delays and costs associated with compliance and which can prohibit or restrict our activity in some regions or areas. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the development of land and home building, sales and customer financing processes, including zoning, density, building standards and mortgage financing. These laws and regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities. This can delay or increase the cost of development or homebuilding. In light of recent developments in the home building industry and the financial markets, federal, state, or local governments may seek to adopt regulations that limit or prohibit homebuilders from providing mortgage financing to their customers. If adopted, any such regulations could adversely affect future revenues and earnings. In addition, some state and local governments in markets where we operate have approved, and others may approve, slow-growth or no-growth initiatives that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those areas. Approval of these initiatives could adversely affect our ability to build and sell homes in the affected markets and/or could require the satisfaction of additional administrative and regulatory requirements, which could result in slowing the progress or increasing the costs of our homebuilding operations in these markets. Any such delays or costs could have a negative effect on our future revenues and earnings. We also are subject to a variety of local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations concerning protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws and regulations that apply to any given community vary greatly according to the community site, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former uses of the site. These environmental laws and regulations may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and/or other costs and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity. For example, the Company engaged in discussions with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) regarding alleged violations of storm water discharge requirements. In resolution of this matter, in April 2010 we agreed to the terms of a consent decree with the EPA, DOJ and the states of Virginia, Maryland, West Virginia and the District of Columbia (collectively, the “States”). The consent decree was approved by the federal district court in August 2010. Under the terms of the consent decree, we have paid a fine of $1.0 million collectively to the United States and the States named above and have agreed to perform under the terms of the consent decree for a minimum of three years, which includes implementing certain operational and training measures nationwide to facilitate ongoing compliance with storm water regulations. 17 We anticipate that increasingly stringent requirements will be imposed on developers and homebuilders in the future. Although we cannot predict the effect of these requirements, they could result in time-consuming and expensive compliance programs and in substantial expenditures, which could cause delays and increase our cost of operations. In addition, our ability to obtain or renew permits or approvals and the continued effectiveness of permits already granted to us or approvals already obtained by us is dependent upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as changes in policies, rules, laws and regulations, and changes in their interpretation and application. Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. Such claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. In addition, the amount and scope of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited, and this coverage may be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against such claims, we may experience losses that could hurt our financial results. Our financial results could also be adversely affected if we were to experience an unusually high number of claims or unusually severe claims. We have received construction defect and home warranty claims associated with allegedly defective drywall manufactured in China (“Chinese Drywall”) that may be responsible for noxious smells and accelerated corrosion of certain metals in certain homes we have developed. We have remediated certain such homes and have received claims or notices regarding 6 homes with Chinese Drywall that may require remediation. In addition, we are involved, among a number of other defendants, in a multidistrict litigation in which 47 homes are alleged to have Chinese Drywall requiring remediation. These homes are located in our Florida and Houston markets. Our estimated liability in this matter is reserved. If additional homes are identified to have the Chinese Drywall issue, or our actual costs to remediate differ from our current estimated costs, we may be required to revise our construction defect and home warranty reserves. Mortgage investors could seek to have us buy back loans or compensate them for losses incurred on mortgages we have sold based on claims that we breached our limited representations or warranties. Our Financial Services segment originates mortgages, primarily for our homebuilding customers. Substantially all of the mortgage loans originated are sold within a short period of time in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, nonrecourse basis, although we remain liable for certain limited representations, such as fraud, and warranties related to loan sales. Accordingly, mortgage investors have in the past and could in the future seek to have us buy back loans or compensate them for losses incurred on mortgages we have sold based on claims that we breached our limited representations or warranties. We believe there continues to be an industry-wide issue with the number of purchaser claims in which purchasers purport to have found inaccuracies related to sellers’ representations and warranties in particular loan sale agreements. To date, we have not made significant payments to the purchasers of our loans in relation to such claims and we have established reserves for potential losses, however there can be no assurance that we will not have significant liabilities in respect of such claims in the future, which could exceed our reserves, or that the impact of such claims on our results of operations will not be material. We compete on several levels with homebuilders that may have greater sales and financial resources, which could hurt future earnings. We compete not only for home buyers but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials, and skilled labor often within larger subdivisions designed, planned, and developed by other homebuilders. Our competitors include other local, regional, and national homebuilders, some of which have greater sales and financial resources. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry together with current market conditions have, and could continue to, result in: · difficulty in acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices; · increased selling incentives; · lower sales; or · delays in construction. 18 Any of these problems could increase costs and/or lower profit margins. We may have difficulty in obtaining the additional financing required to operate and develop our business. Our operations require significant amounts of cash, and we may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or borrowing additional money, for the future growth and development of our business. The terms or availability of additional capital is uncertain. Moreover, the indentures for our outstanding debt securities contain provisions that restrict the debt we may incur in the future and our ability to pay dividends on equity. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital, it could reduce our sales and may hinder our future growth and results of operations. In addition, pledging substantially all of our assets to support our senior secured notes may make it more difficult to raise additional financing in the future. Our future growth may include additional acquisitions of companies that may not be successfully integrated and may not achieve expected benefits. Acquisitions of companies have contributed to our historical growth and may again be a component of our growth strategy in the future. In the future, we may acquire businesses, some of which may be significant. As a result of acquisitions of companies, we may need to seek additional financing and integrate product lines, dispersed operations, and distinct corporate cultures. These integration efforts may not succeed or may distract our management from operating our existing business. Additionally, we may not be able to enhance our earnings as a result of acquisitions. Our failure to successfully identify and manage future acquisitions could harm our operating results. Our controlling stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over us. Members of the Hovnanian family, including Ara K. Hovnanian, our chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer, have voting control, through personal holdings, the limited partnership established for members of Mr. Hovnanian's family and family trusts, of Class A and Class B common stock that enables them to cast approximately 66.0% of the votes that may be cast by the holders of our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock combined. Their combined stock ownership enables them to exert significant control over us, including power to control the election of the Board and to approve matters presented to our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also make some transactions, including mergers or other changes in control, more difficult or impossible without their support. Also, because of their combined voting power, circumstances may occur in which their interests could be in conflict with the interests of other stakeholders. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Based on recent impairments and our current financial performance, we generated a federal net operating loss carryforward of $1.3 billion through the fiscal year ended October 31, 2011, and we may generate net operating loss carryforwards in future years. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership shifts among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. If we undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving our stock, including purchases or sales of stock between 5% shareholders, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and to recognize certain built-in losses would be subject to the limitations of Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. A limitation imposed under Section 382 on our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. In August 2008, we announced that the Board adopted a shareholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”) designed to preserve shareholder value and the value of certain tax assets primarily associated with net loss carryforwards and built-in losses under Section 382 of the Code, and on December 5, 2008, our stockholders approved the Board’s decision to adopt the Rights Plan. The Rights Plan is intended to act as a deterrent to any person or group acquiring 4.9% or more of our outstanding Class A common stock (any such person an “Acquiring Person”), without the approval of the Company’s board of directors. Subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Rights Plan, if and when they become exercisable, each right would entitle its holder to purchase from the Company one ten-thousandth of a share of the Company’s Series B Junior Preferred Stock for a purchase price of $35.00 per share. The rights will not be exercisable until the earlier of (i) 10 business days after a public announcement by us that a person or group has become an Acquiring Person and (ii) 10 business days after the commencement of a tender or exchange offer by a person or group for 4.9% of the Class A common stock. If issued, each fractional share of Series B Junior Preferred Stock would give the stockholder approximately the same dividend, voting and liquidation rights as does one share of the Company’s Class A common stock. However, prior to exercise, a right does not give its holder any rights as a stockholder of the Company, including without limitation any dividend, voting or liquidation rights. 19 In addition, on December 5, 2008, our stockholders approved an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation to restrict certain transfers of our common stock in order to preserve the tax treatment of our net operating loss carryforwards and built-in losses under Section 382 of the Code. Subject to certain exceptions pertaining to pre-existing 5% stockholders and Class B stockholders, the transfer restrictions in the amended Certificate of Incorporation generally restrict any direct or indirect transfer (such as transfers of the Company’s stock that result from the transfer of interests in other entities that own the Company’s stock) if the effect would be to: (i) increase the direct or indirect ownership of the Company’s stock by any person (or public group) from less than 5% to 5% or more of the Company’s stock; (ii) increase the percentage of the Company’s stock owned directly or indirectly by a person (or public group) owning or deemed to own 5% or more of the Company’s stock; or (iii) create a new “public group” (as defined in the applicable Treasury regulations). Utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our operations. In prior years, the areas in which we operate in California have experienced power shortages, including periods without electrical power, as well as significant fluctuations in utility costs. We may incur additional costs and may not be able to complete construction on a timely basis if such power shortages/outages and utility rate fluctuations continue. Furthermore, power shortages and outages, such as the blackout that occurred in 2003 in the Northeast, and rate fluctuations may adversely affect the regional economies in which we operate, which may reduce demand for our homes. Our operations may be adversely affected if further rate fluctuations and/or power shortages and outages occur in California, the Northeast, or in our other markets. Geopolitical risks and market disruption could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Geopolitical events, such as the aftermath of the war with Iraq and the continuing involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan, may have a substantial impact on the economy and the housing market. The terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001 had an impact on our business and the occurrence of similar events in the future cannot be ruled out. The war and the continuing involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan, terrorism, and related geopolitical risks have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may have additional material adverse effects on the U.S. economy, and our customers and, in turn, our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 