Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are general risk factors affecting the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such cases, you may lose all or part of your investment. Recent Legislation in Response to Market and Economic Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Operations, Financial Condition, and Earnings. 15 Index In 2009, the U.S. Department of the Treasury released a financial regulatory reform plan that would, if enacted, represent the most sweeping reform of financial regulation and financial services in decades. Members of Congress have introduced legislation of similar scope. In December 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the “The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009,” which includes an annual “say on pay” mandate (requiring an advisory shareholder vote on compensation arrangement), authorization for the SEC to issue a rule granting shareholders wider access to public company proxy statements, authorize regulators to ban inappropriate or imprudently risky compensation practices and require financial firms to disclose incentive-based compensation structures. Among the numerous recommendations and proposals included in the financial reform proposals, whether in the legislation that passed the House of Representatives or in other pending legislation, many have the potential to significantly affect the operations and prospects of the Company and the Bank. These include: · Elimination of the federal thrift charter (effectively requiring Trustco Bank to convert to a national or state commercial bank charter); · Elimination of the OTS as a separate federal regulator for the thrift industry; and · Establishing a new agency dedicated solely and specifically to consumer financial protection, including authority over the design and structure of financial products offered to the public. The reform programs and proposals currently pending in Congress would subject us and other financial institutions to additional restrictions, regulatory oversight and compliance costs that may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. The financial reform plans would substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation. Compliance with such regulations and restrictions may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay common stock dividends at the current level. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the financial institutions industry. For example, a renewed national economic recession, or further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets, could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. We may also face the following risks in connection with these events: 16 Index · Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our business. · Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. · The processes we use to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. · Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. · We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and increase compliance challenges. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, TrustCo could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. There can be no assurance the recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the economy. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the EESA, and the programs implemented pursuant to the EESA, including the Capital Purchase Program and Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, will have on the financial markets. Similarly, there can be no assurance as to the effect of the ARRA on the national economy. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common shares. The failure of EESA or ARRA to help stabilize the financial markets and assist in economic recovery and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, we expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the EESA. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. 17 Index Many of the programs implemented in response to the financial crisis, including the Capital Purchase Program and the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, are winding down, and the effects of the wind-down cannot be predicted. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations and tax policies. As described earlier, the Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, its primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. In addition, the Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of the Company’s common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of the Bank’s assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. Likewise, the Company operates in an environment that imposes income taxes on its operations at both the federal and state levels to varying degrees. Strategies and operating routines have been implemented to minimize the impact of these taxes. Consequently, any change in tax legislation could significantly alter the effectiveness of these strategies. Market volatility levels have experienced significant variations over the last two years and a return to very high volatility levels could adversely affect us. The stock and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years, with the volatility and disruption reaching unprecedented levels at times. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Current volatility levels have diminished significantly from the peak, but a return to higher levels could cause the Company to experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, banks, investment banks, mutual funds, and other institutional entities. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. Any such losses could be material and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Index Certain interest rate movements may hurt earnings and asset value. Interest rates have in recent years hit historical low levels. Since December 2008, the U.S. Federal Reserve has held its target for the federal funds rate at a range of 0.00% to 0.25%. Lower rates have helped lead to a lower cost of funds, but have also lowered the yields we earn on loans, securities and short-term investments. If and when the Federal Reserve begins raising rates, our cost of funds is likely to rise faster than the rates we earn on loans and investments, potentially causing a compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on the Bank’s profitability. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Bank’s interest-earning assets, and in particular the Bank’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on shareholders’ equity. We are exposed to credit risk in our lending activities. There are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. Loans to individuals and business entities, our single largest asset group, depend for repayment on the willingness and ability of borrowers to perform as contracted. A material adverse change in the ability of a significant portion of our borrowers to meet their obligation to us, due to changes in economic conditions, interest rates, natural disaster, acts of war, or other causes over which we have no control, could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans, and could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. Strong competition within the Bank’s market areas could hurt profits and slow growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has forced the Bank to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits and to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. Management expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. 19 Index Negative events in certain geographic areas could adversely affect us. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for our mortgage loans is located could adversely affect our borrower’s ability to repay and the value of the collateral. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as hurricanes. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key management personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified middle management personnel as we grow. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and New York law may discourage or prevent takeover attempts, and these provisions may have the effect of reducing the market price of our stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws include several provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing hostile takeover attempts, and therefore, making the removal of incumbent management difficult. The provisions include staggered terms for our board of directors and requirements of supermajority votes to approve certain business transactions. In addition, New York law contains several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of the board of directors, and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding stock. To the extent that these provisions are effective in discouraging or preventing takeover attempts, they may tend to reduce the market price for our stock. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setting bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, periodically change financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised accounting standard retroactively, which could effect beginning of period financial statement amounts. 20 Index Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by TrustCo in reports we file or submit under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistakes. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. Preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of this estimate, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses higher than the current balance. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems, and technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems that may result in lost business. Further, we may not be able to substitute providers on terms that are as favorable if our relationships with our existing service providers are interrupted. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial controls systems, and technology. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationships management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The occurrence of any failure or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 Index If the business continuity and disaster recovery plans that we have in place are not adequate to continue our operations in the event of a disaster, the business disruption can adversely impact our operations. External events, including terrorist or military actions, or an outbreak of disease, such as H1N1, or “swine flu” and resulting political and social turmoil could cause unforeseen damage to our physical facilities or could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. Additionally, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or our customers, or vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 