Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are general risk factors affecting the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such cases, you may lose all or part of your investment. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, eliminated the OTS, tightened capital standards, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and resulted, and will continue to result, in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act has already significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies, and will continue to do so. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. 20 Index Among the changes contained in the Dodd-Frank Act are: ● The elimination of the OTS, which was our primary federal regulator. The OCC (the primary federal regulator for national banks) is now the primary federal regulator of the Bank, and the Federal Reserve is now the primary federal regulator of the Company. ● The creation of a new financial consumer protection agency, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “Bureau”), that has the authority to issue new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer compliance. These new and revised rules may increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and restrict the financial products and services we offer to our customers. Moreover, states may now adopt stricter consumer protection laws and state attorney generals may enforce consumer protection rules issued by the Bureau. The Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Institutions such as the Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continued to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. ● More stringent capital requirements on holding companies. We believe that these restrictions may limit our future capital strategies. Further, savings and loan holding companies such as the Company have not previously been subject to capital requirements, but under the Dodd-Frank Act, savings and loan holding companies will become subject to the same capital requirements as bank holding companies (although not until five years from the date of enactment). In addition, the new international regulatory capital rules, known as “Basel III,” generally increase the capital required to be held and narrow the types of instruments that will qualify as capital. The federal banking agencies have released proposed rules relating to capital and liquidity requirements, including rules related to Basel III. As published, the proposals would increase minimum levels of required capital, narrow the definition of capital, and increase risk weights for various asset classes. In addition, there are also certain provisions that may negatively affect capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments if an institution fails to hold a sufficient amount of common equity Tier 1 capital or the amount needed to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. At this time it cannot be predicted when a final rule will be published in light of the federal banking agencies’ decision to delay implementation of the proposal, and we cannot predict whether the proposals will ultimately be adopted as proposed, the ultimate content of such proposals, or the precise impact that such proposals, if adopted, would have upon our financial condition or results of operations, though it seems likely that capital requirements of banks and their holding companies will be increased. If this occurs, it could slow our growth, cause us to seek to raise additional capital, or both. ● Codification of the Federal Reserve’s “source of strength” doctrine under which a holding company must serve as a source of financial strength for its depository institution subsidiaries; savings and loan holding companies such as the Company will become subject to the source of strength requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. 21 Index ● Requiring publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. ● Potential limitation of the federal preemption of state consumer protection laws enjoyed by federal savings associations and national banks by (1) requiring that a state consumer financial law prevent or significantly interfere with the exercise of a federal savings association’s or national bank’s powers before it can be preempted, (2) mandating that any preemption decision be made on a case by case basis rather than a blanket rule, and (3) ending the applicability of preemption to subsidiaries and affiliates of national banks and federal savings associations. Although the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, many of the changes and new rules it mandates have not yet become effective, and the scope and impact of many of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions will be determined through the rulemaking process. As a result, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us at this time, including the extent to which it could increase costs or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are continuing to operate in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay common stock dividends at the current level. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the financial institutions industry. For example, a renewed national economic recession, or further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets, could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. We may also face the following risks in connection with these events: 22 Index ● Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our business. ● Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. ● The processes we use to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. ● Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. ● We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and increase compliance challenges. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, TrustCo could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations and tax policies. As described above, the Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, its primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. In addition, the Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of the Company’s common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of the Bank’s assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. Likewise, the Company operates in an environment that imposes income taxes on its operations at both the federal and state levels to varying degrees. Strategies and operating routines have been implemented to minimize the impact of these taxes. Consequently, any change in tax legislation could significantly alter the effectiveness of these strategies. 23 Index Our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations and other limitations which may affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders or to repurchase our common stock. TrustCo is a separate legal entity from its subsidiary, the Bank, and does not have significant operations of its own. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors that the Bank’s regulator could assert that payment of dividends or other payments may result in an unsafe or unsound practice. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, TrustCo will be subjected to consolidated capital requirements and will be required to serve as a source of strength to the Bank. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to TrustCo or if TrustCo is required to retain capital or contribute capital to the Bank, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock or to repurchase shares of common stock. Market volatility levels have experienced significant variations over the last two years and a return to very high volatility levels could adversely affect us. The stock and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years, with the volatility and disruption reaching unprecedented levels at times. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Current volatility levels have diminished significantly from the peak, but a return to higher levels could cause the Company to experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, banks, investment banks, mutual funds, and other institutional entities. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. Any such losses could be material and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain interest rate movements may hurt earnings and asset value. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments, and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Over any specific period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice-versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, earnings may be negatively affected. Interest rates have in recent years hit historical low levels. Since December 2008, the U.S. Federal Reserve has held its target for the federal funds rate at a range of 0.00% to 0.25%. Lower rates have helped lead to a lower cost of funds, but have also lowered the yields we earn on loans, securities and short-term investments. If and when the Federal Reserve begins raising rates, our cost of funds is likely to rise faster than the rates we earn on loans and investments, potentially causing a compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on the Bank’s profitability. 24 Index We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowings costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Bank’s interest-earning assets, and in particular the Bank’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on shareholders’ equity. We are exposed to credit risk in our lending activities. There are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. Loans to individuals and business entities, our single largest asset group, depend for repayment on the willingness and ability of borrowers to perform as contracted. A material adverse change in the ability of a significant portion of our borrowers to meet their obligation to us, due to changes in economic conditions, interest rates, natural disaster, acts of war, or other causes over which we have no control, could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans, and could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our borrowers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and, as a result of the declines in home prices, the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. When determining the amount of the ALLL, we make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In deciding on the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, management reviews past due information, historical charge-off and recovery data, and nonperforming loan activity. Also, there are a number of other factors that are taken into consideration, including: the magnitude, nature and trends of recent loan charge-offs and recoveries, the growth in the loan portfolio and the implication that it has in relation to the economic climate in the Bank’s market territories, and the economic environment in the Upstate New York territory primarily (the Company’s largest geographical area) over the last several years, as well as in the Company’s other market areas. If our assumptions and analysis prove to be incorrect, our ALLL may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance which is maintained through provisions for loan losses. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility and lender liability. Some of the services we provide, such as trust and investment services, require us to act as fiduciaries for our customers and others. In addition, loan workout and other activities may expose us or Trustco Bank to legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims. From time to time, third parties make claims and take legal action against us pertaining to the performance of our fiduciary responsibilities or loan-related activities. If these claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, we may be exposed to significant financial liability and/or our reputation could be damaged. Either of these results may adversely impact demand for our products and services or otherwise have a harmful effect on our business and, in turn, on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors or borrowers or meet our operating cash needs to fund corporate expansion and other activities. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of Trustco Bank is used to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and limits have been established by our board of directors, and our management monitors the overall liquidity position of Trustco Bank to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Trustco Bank is also a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which provides funding to members through advances that are collateralized with securities or mortgage-related assets. Our securities portfolio can be used as a secondary source of liquidity, and additional liquidity could be obtained from securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits and debt or equity securities issuances in public or private transactions. If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might not be able to meet the needs of our customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations, cash flows and our level of regulatory capital. 25 Index New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may develop and grow new lines of business or offer new products and services within our existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. All service offerings, including current offerings and those which may be provided in the future may become more risky due to changes in economic, competitive and market conditions beyond our control. We may be subject to a higher effective tax rate if Trustco Realty Corp. (“Trustco Realty”) fails to qualify as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”). Trustco Realty, a subsidiary of Trustco Bank, operates as a REIT for tax purposes. Trustco Realty was established to acquire, hold and manage mortgage assets and other authorized investments to generate net income for distribution to its shareholders. For an entity to qualify as a REIT, it must meet certain organizational tests and it must satisfy the following six asset tests under the Internal Revenue Code each quarter: (1) at least 75% of the value of the REIT’s total assets must consist of real estate assets, cash and cash items, and government securities; (2) not more than 25% of the value of the REIT’s total assets may consist of securities, other than those includible under the 75% test; (3) not more than 5% of the value of its total assets may consist of securities of any one issuer, other than those securities includible under the 75% test or securities of a taxable REIT subsidiary; (4) not more than 10% of the outstanding voting power of any one issuer may be held, other than those securities includible under the 75% test or securities of a taxable REIT subsidiary; (5) not more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer may be held, other than those securities includible under the 75% test or securities of a taxable REIT subsidiary; and (6) a REIT cannot own securities in one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries which comprise more than 25% of the value of its total assets. At December 31, 2011, Trustco Realty met all six quarterly asset tests. Also, a REIT must satisfy the following two gross income tests each year: (1) at least 75% of its gross income must be from qualifying income closely connected with real estate activities; and (2) 95% of its gross income must be derived from sources qualifying for the 75% test and dividends, interest, and gains from the sale of securities. In addition, a REIT must distribute at least 90% of its taxable income for the taxable year, excluding any net capital gains, to maintain its non-taxable status for federal income tax purposes. For 2011, Trustco Realty had met the two annual income tests and the distribution test. If Trustco Realty fails to meet any of the required provisions and, therefore, does not qualify to be a REIT, our effective tax rate would increase. We would be subject to a higher effective tax rate if Trustco Realty is required to be included in a New York combined return. New York State tax law generally requires a REIT that is majority owned by a bank or savings association located in New York to be included in the bank’s combined New York State tax return. We believe that Trustco Realty and Trustco Bank qualify for the small-bank exception to this rule. If, contrary to this belief, Trustco Realty were required to be included in our New York State combined tax return, our effective tax rate would increase. Under the small-bank exception, dividends received by the bank from Trustco Realty are subject to a 60% dividends-received deduction, which results in only 40% of the dividends being subject to New York State tax. In 2009 and 2010, the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance proposed reforms to the New York State corporate franchise and banking laws that, if enacted, would substantially alter how we and Trustco Bank are taxed in New York State and could materially increase our combined effective New York State tax rate. In particular, that proposal would have required Trustco Realty to file a combined New York State return with us and substantially eliminate the benefit of the 60% dividends-received deduction. 26 Index We cannot predict whether any tax reform legislation will actually be proposed in the New York State legislature, whether any such legislation would be enacted this year or any subsequent year, how any enacted legislation would differ from the current law or how any such legislative changes would affect us and Trustco Bank’s effective New York State tax rate. Strong competition within the Bank’s market areas could hurt profits and slow growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage companies, other lenders, and institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives. Many of our competitors have competitive advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition, and the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. Competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has forced the Bank to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits and to hire and retain experienced employees. Management expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market areas. Negative events in certain geographic areas could adversely affect us. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the areas in which we conduct business, primarily the Capital Region of New York and, to a lesser extent, central Florida. The local economic conditions in our market areas have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, would affect the local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 27 Index We are dependent upon the services of our management team. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key management personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified middle management personnel as we grow. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and New York law may discourage or prevent takeover attempts, and these provisions may have the effect of reducing the market price of our stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws include several provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing hostile takeover attempts, and therefore, making the removal of incumbent management difficult. The provisions include staggered terms for our board of directors and requirements of supermajority votes to approve certain business transactions. In addition, New York law contains several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of the board of directors, and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding stock. To the extent that these provisions are effective in discouraging or preventing takeover attempts, they may tend to reduce the market price for our stock. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setting bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, periodically change financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised accounting standard retroactively, which could effect beginning of period financial statement amounts. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by TrustCo in reports we file or submit under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. 28 Index These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistakes. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. Preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of this estimate, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses higher than the current balance. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems, and technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems that may result in lost business. Further, we may not be able to substitute providers on terms that are as favorable if our relationships with our existing service providers are interrupted. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial controls systems, and technology. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationships management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The occurrence of any failure or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the business continuity and disaster recovery plans that we have in place are not adequate to continue our operations in the event of a disaster, the business disruption can adversely impact our operations. 29 Index External events, including terrorist or military actions, or an outbreak of disease, and resulting political and social turmoil could cause unforeseen damage to our physical facilities or could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. Additionally, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or our customers, or vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information, proprietary business information of our customers and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information and regulatory penalties. Such an event could also disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which would adversely affect our business. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 