Item 1A. Risk Factors These are general risk factors affecting the Company. They are further described under Item 1. "Business" and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such cases, you may lose all or part of your investment. Certain interest rate movements may hurt earnings and asset value. Interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate from 1.00% to 5.25%. While these short-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide to price the Bank's deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide to price the Bank's longer-term loans) have not. This "flattening" of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on the Bank's interest rate spread and net interest margin to date, and if short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on the Bank's deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than rates on the Bank's long-term loans and investments, the Bank would experience further compression of its interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on the Bank's profitability. 15 Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Bank's interest-earning assets, and in particular the Bank's securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on shareholders' equity. Strong competition within the Bank's market areas could hurt profits and slow growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has forced the Bank to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits and to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. Management expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank's profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations and tax policies. As described earlier, the Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, its primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of the Company's common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of the Bank's assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. Likewise, the Company operates in an environment that imposes income taxes on its operations at both the federal and state levels to varying degrees. Strategies and operating routines have been implemented to minimize the impact of these taxes. 16 Consequently, any change in tax legislation could significantly alter the effectiveness of these strategies. Negative events in certain geographic areas could adversely affect us. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for our mortgage loans is located could adversely affect our borrower's ability to repay and the value of the collateral. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as hurricanes. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key management personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified middle management personnel as we grow. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and New York law may discourage or prevent takeover attempts, and these provisions may have the effect of reducing the market price of our stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws include several provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing hostile takeover attempts, and therefore, making the removal of incumbent management difficult. The provisions include staggered terms for our board of directors and requirements of supermajority votes to approve certain business transactions. In addition, New York law contains several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of the board of directors, and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding stock. To the extent that these provisions are effective in discouraging or preventing takeover attempts, they may tend to reduce the market price for our stock. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setting bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, periodically change financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised accounting standard retroactively, which could effect beginning of period financial statement amounts. 17 The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. Preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of this estimate, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses higher than the current balance. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems, and technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems that may result in lost business. Further, we may not be able to substitute providers on terms that are as favorable if our relationships with our existing service providers are interrupted. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial controls systems, and technology. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationships management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The occurrence of any failure or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the business continuity and disaster recovery plans that we have in place are not adequate to continue our operations in the event of a disaster, the business disruption can adversely impact our operations. External events, including terrorist or military actions, or an outbreak of disease, such as Asian Influenza, or "bird flu" and resulting political and social turmoil could cause unforeseen damage to our physical facilities or could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. Additionally, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or our customers, or vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 18 Decline in home values in the Company's markets could adversely impact results from operations. Like all financial services providers, the Company is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and in particular, a significant decline in home values in the Company's markets could have a negative effect on the results of operations. A significant decline in home values would likely lead to a decrease in new home equity loan originations and increased delinquencies and defaults in both the consumer home equity loan and the residential real estate loan portfolios and result in increased losses in these portfolios. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 