ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY The reader should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the value of our common stock could decline substantially. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. FIC is a holding company and relies on dividends from its insurance subsidiary, Investors Life; state insurance laws may restrict the ability of Investors Life to pay dividends. FIC is an insurance holding company whose principal assets consist of the outstanding capital stock of its insurance subsidiary, Investors Life Insurance Company of North America. As a holding company, FIC’s ability to meet its cash requirements, pay principal and interest on any debt, pay expenses related to its affairs and pay dividends on its common stock substantially depends upon dividends from its subsidiary. Applicable state insurance laws generally restrict the ability of insurance companies to pay cash dividends in excess of prescribed limitations without prior approval. Pursuant to statutory limitations, the maximum dividend payment which could be made in 2007 without the prior approval of the TDI is $5.5 million. FIC may not be able to compete with larger, more established insurance companies. There are many life and health insurance companies in the United States. Agents placing insurance business with our insurance subsidiary, Investors Life, are compensated on a commission basis. However, some companies may pay higher commissions and charge lower premium rates and many companies have more substantial resources than we do. The principal cost and competitive factors that affect the ability of Investors Life to sell its insurance products on a profitable basis are: · the general level of premium rates for comparable products; · the extent of individual policyholders services required to service each product category; · general interest rate levels; · insurance ratings; · competitive commission rates and related marketing costs; · legislative and regulatory requirements and restrictions; · the impact of competing insurance and other financial products; and · the condition of the regional and national economies. If Investors Life capital and surplus falls below certain statutory required levels, regulatory authorities may place Investors Life under regulatory control. Investors Life is subject to risk-based capital requirements imposed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. These requirements were imposed to evaluate the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus in relation to investment and insurance risks associated with asset quality, mortality and morbidity, asset and liability matching, and other business factors. The requirements are used by states as an early warning tool to discover potential weakly-capitalized companies for the purposes of initiating regulatory action. Generally, if an insurer’s risk-based capital falls below specified levels, the insurer would be subject to different degrees of regulatory action depending upon the magnitude of the deficiency. Possible regulatory actions range from requiring the insurer to propose actions to correct the risk-based capital deficiency to placing the insurer under regulatory control. Specifically, if the applicable life insurance company’s total adjusted capital is less than 150% but greater than or equal to 70% of its authorized control-level risk-based capital, as each of these terms are defined in the risk-based capital requirements, the appropriate state regulatory authority may take any action it deems necessary, including placing the insurance company under regulatory control. In addition, if the insurance company’s total adjusted capital is less than 70% of its authorized control-level risk-based capital, the appropriate state regulatory authority is mandated to place the insurance company under its control. As of December 31, 2006, the total adjusted capital of Investors Life was approximately 584% of its authorized control level risk-based capital, as compared to 560% at December 31, 2005. If this percentage were to decrease, Investors Life may become subject to regulatory action which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 Investors Life may be required to pay assessments to fund policyholder losses or liabilities; this may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The solvency or guaranty laws of most states in which Investors Life conducts business may require the Company to pay assessments (up to certain prescribed limits) to fund policyholder losses or liabilities of insurance companies that become insolvent. These assessments may be deferred or forgiven under most guaranty laws if they would threaten an insurer’s financial strength and, in certain instances, may be offset against future premium taxes. We cannot estimate the likelihood and amount of future assessments. Any future assessments may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Investors Life is subject to regulation and examination by state insurance departments, which could result in regulatory sanctions, such as revocation of licenses to transact business. Investors Life is subject to regulation and supervision by the states in which it is licensed to do business. This regulation is designed primarily to protect policy owners. Although the extent of regulation varies by state, state insurance departments have broad administrative powers relating to the granting and revocation of licenses to transact business, licensing of agents, the regulation of trade practices and premium rates, the approval of form and content of financial statements and the type and character of investments. These laws and regulations require Investors Life to maintain certain minimum surplus levels and to file detailed periodic reports with the supervisory agencies in each of the states in which it does business, and its business and accounts are subject to examination by these agencies at any time. The insurance laws and regulations of the domiciliary state of Investors Life require that it be examined at specified intervals, usually on a three to five-year cycle. The Texas Department of Insurance (“TDI”) began an examination of Investors Life on July 25, 2005 covering the years 1999-2004. On February 5, 2007, TDI issued a report with respect to this examination that highlighted, among other issues, the Company’s failure to provide accurate, complete and timely responses to the TDI requests for information. We attribute this failure to our lack of current financial statements at the time the examination was being conducted and the focus of our efforts on becoming current in our public filings. The Company has been notified that TDI will perform an examination of Investors Life for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006. The Company expects the examination will begin in June 2007. The federal government may seek to regulate the insurance industry, which may result in additional regulatory costs or constrain the nature and scope of our products and operations. Although the federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance industry, federal initiatives often have a direct impact on the insurance business. Congress and certain federal agencies are investigating the current condition of the insurance industry in the United States in order to decide whether some form of federal regulation of insurance companies would be appropriate. We are unable to predict the outcome of any such congressional activity or the potential effects that federal regulation would have on us or our insurance subsidiaries. The enactment of federal privacy legislation, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (as it relates to the use of medical and financial information by insurers) may result in additional regulatory compliance costs, limit the ability of Investors Life to market its products or otherwise constrain the nature and scope of our operations. The failure of the Company to be current in its SEC reports and the delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq may cause fluctuations in the price and volume of our shares and limit access to additional capital. The failure of the Company to be current in its SEC reports and the delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq may have adverse effects on the Company and its shareholders. During the period that we were delinquent in our SEC reports, FIC shareholders may have had limited and dated information about the Company. Our failure to be current in our SEC reports has caused us to not be in compliance with SEC rules and regulations and could lead to an enforcement action by the SEC seeking to revoke the Company’s registration under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Prior to our delisting in 2004, our common stock traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market’s National Market. Our common stock was delisted as a result of our failure to timely file SEC reports. We do not expect to apply to relist our common stock on Nasdaq or another trading market until we are current in our SEC reports. While our common stock is quoted in the Pink Sheets, there is currently only a limited trading market for our shares. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the price and volume of our shares to be more exaggerated than would occur on Nasdaq or another trading market. We cannot assure you that prior to relisting our shares on Nasdaq or another trading market, you will be able to sell shares of our common stock without a considerable delay or significant impact on the sale price nor can we assure that even after we become current in our SEC reports that we will be relisted on Nasdaq. 13 We will not be eligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 for a period of 12 months after becoming current with our SEC reports. The inability to use Form S-3 may impair our abilities or increase our costs and the complexity of our efforts to raise funds in the public markets. Even after we become current with our SEC reports, our access to capital may be limited until we are able to be relisted on Nasdaq or another trading market. As of December 31, 2006, we had material weaknesses in our internal controls, and our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of that date. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to provide timely and accurate financial statements. As more fully described under Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, our management identified material weaknesses over the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. As a result of the material weaknesses, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2006, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board has defined a material weakness as a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim statements will not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. As more fully described under Item 9A, management concluded as of December 31, 2006, FIC’s disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective and that FIC did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. In our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we also reported material weaknesses and concluded that FIC’s disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective as of such date. We have implemented initiatives to remediate the material weaknesses in our internal controls. The steps we have taken and are taking to address the material weaknesses may not be effective. Any failure to effectively address a material weakness or other control deficiency or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could limit our ability to obtain financing, harm our reputation, further delay our plan to become current in our SEC reports, disrupt our ability to process key components of our results of operations and financial condition timely and accurately and cause us to continue to fail to meet our reporting obligations under rules of the SEC. Changes to the Internal Revenue Code could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Currently, under the Internal Revenue Code, holders of many life insurance and annuity products, including both traditional and variable products, are entitled to tax-favorable treatment on these products. For example, income tax payable by policyholders on investment earnings under life insurance and annuity products which are owned by natural persons is deferred during the product’s accumulation period and is payable, if at all, only when the insurance or annuity benefits are actually paid or to be paid. In the past, legislation has been proposed that would have curtailed the tax-favorable treatment of some of our life insurance and annuity products. For example, Congress has previously considered legislation that would have eliminated the tax-deferred treatment of annuity products purchased by consumers other than in connection with a tax qualified retirement plan. While no such proposals are currently under active consideration by Congress, if legislative proposals directed at limiting the tax-favorable treatment of life insurance policies or annuity contracts were enacted, market demand for such products would likely be adversely affected. In addition, proposals have been considered by Congress which would either eliminate or significantly reduce Federal estate taxes. Many insurance products are designed and sold to help policyholders reduce the effect of Federal estate taxation on their estates. Thus, the enactment of any legislation that eliminates or significantly reduces Federal estate taxation would likely result in a significant reduction in sales of our currently tax-favorable products. Interest rate volatility may adversely affect our profitability. Changes in interest rates affect many aspects of our business and can significantly affect our profitability. In periods of increasing interest rates, withdrawals of life insurance policies and fixed annuity contracts, including policy loans and surrenders, and transfers to separate account variable options may increase as policyholders choose to forego insurance protection and seek higher investment returns. Obtaining cash to satisfy these obligations may require us to liquidate fixed income investment assets at a time when the market prices for those assets are depressed because interest rates have increased. This may result in realized investment losses. Regardless of whether we realize an investment loss, these cash payments would result in a decrease in total invested assets and may result in a decrease in net income. Policy surrender charges may offset or minimize the negative effect to net income in the period of the surrender. Premature withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate amortization of policy acquisition costs, which would also reduce our net income. 14 Conversely, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increases in persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in-force from year to year. During such a period, our investment earnings will be lower because the interest earnings on our fixed income investments will be more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates, and we may be required to reinvest the proceeds in securities bearing lower interest rates. Accordingly, during periods of declining interest rates, our profitability may suffer as a result of a decrease in the spread between interest rates credited to policyholders and returns on our investment portfolio. The profitability of our spread-based business depends in large part upon our ability to manage interest rate spreads, and the credit and other risks inherent in our investment portfolio. We cannot guarantee, however, that we will manage successfully our interest rate spreads or the potential negative impact of those risks. The price of shares of our common stock can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The factors which can cause the price of shares of our common stock to fluctuate include, among others: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · developments generally affecting the insurance industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; · our dividend policy; · the relatively low trading volume of our common stock; · future sales of our equity or equity-linked securities; · delinquency in the filing of required financial statements; · natural disasters and terrorist attacks; and · general domestic and international economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or make it more difficult for us to sell equity and equity-linked securities in the future at a time and a price that we consider appropriate. State insurance laws may discourage takeover attempts that could be beneficial to us and our shareholders. We are subject to state statutes governing insurance holding companies, which generally require that any person or entity desiring to acquire direct or indirect control of any of our insurance company subsidiaries obtain prior regulatory approval. Control would be presumed to exist under most state insurance laws with the acquisition of 10% or more of our outstanding voting securities. Applicable state insurance company laws and regulations could delay or impede a change of control of our Company, which could prevent our shareholders from receiving a control premium. Our reserves established for future policy benefits and claims may prove inadequate, requiring us to increase liabilities. Our earnings depend significantly upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions used in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future insurance and annuity policy benefits and claims. The liability that we have established for future policy benefits is based upon assumptions concerning a number of factors, including the amount of premiums that we will receive in the future, rate of return on assets we purchase with premiums received, expected claims, expenses and persistency, which is the measurement of the percentage of insurance policies remaining in-force from year to year. However, due to the nature of the underlying risks and the degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of the liabilities for unpaid policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts that we will ultimately pay to settle these liabilities. As a result, we may experience volatility in the level of our reserves from period to period. To the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than our underlying assumptions, we could be required to increase our liabilities. As a result, we may experience volatility in the level of future earnings to the extent that experience differs from our assumptions. 15 A downgrade in the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and adversely affect relationships with our sales force. Rating organizations periodically review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including the Company’s insurance subsidiary, Investors Life. In recent years, downgrades of insurance companies have occurred with increasing frequency. In June of 2006, Investors Life was downgraded by A.M. Best from a rating of B to a rating of B-. Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. A rating downgrade, or the potential for such a downgrade of our insurance subsidiary could, among other things: · materially increase the number of policy or contract surrenders for all or a portion of their net cash values and withdrawals by policyholders of cash values from their policies; · result in the termination of our relationships with agents and other distributors of our products and services; and · reduce new sales. Rating organizations assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated companies, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating organization, general economic conditions and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. In addition, rating organizations use various models and formulas to assess the strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating organizations have, in their discretion, altered the models. Changes to the models could impact the rating organizations’ judgment of the financial strength rating to be assigned to the rated company. The Company cannot predict what actions the rating organizations may take, or what actions the Company may be required to take in response to the actions of the rating organizations, which could adversely affect the Company. These financial strength ratings are current opinions of the rating agency. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agency as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at the Company management’s request. In the event the Company’s ratings are downgraded, the Company’s business may be negatively impacted. We may require additional capital in the future that may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms. FIC’s future capital requirements depend on many factors, including its ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that FIC needs to raise additional funds, any equity or debt financing for this purpose, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to it. If FIC cannot obtain adequate capital, its business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our policy claims fluctuate from period to period, and actual results could differ from our expectations. Our results may fluctuate from period to period due to fluctuations in policy claims received by the Company. Investors Life may experience higher claims if the economy is growing slowly or in recession, or equity markets decline. Mortality, morbidity, and casualty expectations incorporate assumptions about many factors, including for example, how a product is distributed, persistency and lapses, and future progress in the fields of health and medicine. Actual mortality, morbidity, and casualty claims could differ from expectations if actual results differ from those assumptions. Our results may be negatively affected should actual experience differ from management’s assumptions and estimates. In the conduct of business, FIC makes certain assumptions regarding the mortality, persistency, expenses and interest rates, or other factors appropriate to the type of business it expects to experience in future periods. These assumptions are also used to estimate the amounts of deferred policy acquisition costs, policy liabilities and accruals, future earnings, and various components of FIC’s balance sheet. FIC’s actual experiences, as well as changes in estimates, are used to prepare FIC’s consolidated statements of operations. 16 The calculations FIC uses to estimate various components of its balance sheet and statements of income are necessarily complex and involve analyzing and interpreting large quantities of data. FIC currently employs various techniques for such calculations and it from time to time will develop and implement more sophisticated administrative systems and procedures capable of facilitating the calculation of more precise estimates. Assumptions and estimates involve judgment, and by their nature are imprecise and subject to changes and revision over time. Accordingly, our results may be affected, positively or negatively, from time to time, by actual results different from assumptions, by changes in estimates, and by changes resulting from implementing more sophisticated administrative systems and procedures that facilitate the calculation of more precise estimates. Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by Investors Life. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. For example, subsequent to the terrorist assaults of September 11, 2001, reinsurance for man-made catastrophes became generally unavailable due to capacity constraints and, to the limited extent available, much more expensive. The high cost of reinsurance or lack of affordable coverage could adversely affect our results. If we fail to obtain sufficient reinsurance, it could adversely affect our ability to write future business. As part of our business, we have reinsured certain life risks to reinsurers. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. We are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. Our reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance recoverables that they owe to us or they may not pay such recoverables on a timely basis. A reinsurer’s insolvency, underwriting results or investment returns may affect its ability to fulfill reinsurance obligations. We may not be able to maintain our current reinsurance facilities and, even where highly desirable or necessary, we may not be able to obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we may have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. Either of these potential developments could materially adversely affect our results of operating and financial condition. General economic, financial market and political conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected from time to time by general economic, financial market and political conditions. These conditions include economic cycles such as: · insurance industry cycles; · levels of employment; · levels of consumer lending; · levels of inflation; and · movements of the financial markets. Fluctuations in interest rates, monetary policy, demographics, and legislative and competitive factors also influence our performance. During periods of economic downturn: · individuals and businesses may choose not to purchase our insurance products and other related products and services, may terminate existing policies or contracts or permit them to lapse, or may choose to reduce the amount of coverage purchased; · new disability insurance claims and claims on other specialized insurance products tend to rise; · there is a higher loss ratio on credit card and installment loan insurance due to rising unemployment levels; and · insureds tend to increase their utilization of health and dental benefits if they anticipate becoming unemployed or losing benefits. 17 The failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent upon our ability to keep up to date with technological advances. Our failure to update our systems, to reflect technological advancements or to protect our systems may adversely affect our relationships and ability to do business with our clients. In addition, our business depends significantly on effective information systems, and we have many different information systems for our various businesses. We must commit significant resources to maintain and enhance our existing information systems and develop new information systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. As a result of our past acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. Our failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we do not maintain adequate systems we could experience adverse consequences, including: · inadequate information on which to base pricing, underwriting and reserving decisions; · the loss of existing customers; · difficulty in attracting new customers; · customer, provider and agent disputes; · regulatory problems, such as failure to meet prompt payment obligations; · litigation exposure; or · increases in administrative expenses. Our management information, internal control and financial reporting systems may need further enhancements and development to satisfy the financial and other reporting requirements of being a public company. FIC may have liability for indemnification obligations under the Family Life sale agreement. FIC, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Family Life Corporation, entered into a definitive agreement on December 8, 2006 for the sale of its wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Family Life, to Manhattan Life for $28.0 million in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. A copy of the sale agreement with Manhattan Life was filed as an exhibit to the Company’s 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The sale of Family Life was completed on December 29, 2006. Pursuant to the terms and subject to the limitations contained in the sale agreement, Family Life Corporation agreed to indemnify Manhattan Life against all losses incurred by Manhattan Life that are caused by a breach of any of the representations, warranties, covenants or other agreements made by Family Life Corporation in the sale agreement. Manhattan Life filed suit against the Company on April 17, 2007 claiming that the Company has breached the non-competition provision contained in the sale agreement (see "Item 3 - Legal Proceedings"), and Manhattan Life may file additional indemnification claims in the future. We cannot estimate the amount that the Company may be required to pay to Manhattan Life if it is successful in its pending lawsuit, nor can we estimate the likelihood or amount of future claims under the sale agreement. Family Life Corporation's obligation to indemnify Manhattan Life is limited to individual or related losses of Manhattan Life that exceed $10,000, and Family Life Corporation is responsible only for the portion of all such losses that exceeds $420,000. Furthermore, the maximum amount that Family Life Corporation can be required to pay Manhattan Life as indemnification under the sale agreement is $8,400,000. Family Life Corporation's indemnification obligations expire on June 29, 2008, except with respect to covenants and agreements of Family Life Corporation that extend beyond such date, including but not limited to the non-competition provisions of the sale agreement, which survive for a period of 5 years following the closing of the sale transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 