Item 1A. Risk Factors These are general risk factors affecting the Company. They are further described under Item 1. "Business" and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such cases, you may lose all or part of your investment. 8 Certain interest rate movements may hurt earnings and asset value. Interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate from 1.00% to 4.50%. While these short-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide to price the Bank's deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide to price the Bank's longer-term loans) have not. This "flattening" of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on the Bank's interest rate spread and net interest margin to date, and if short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on the Bank's deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than rates on the Bank's long-term loans and investments, the Bank would experience further compression of its interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on the Bank's profitability. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Bank's interest-earning assets, and in particular the Bank's securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on shareholders' equity. Strong competition within the Bank's market areas could hurt profits and slow growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has forced the Bank to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits and to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. Management expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank's profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations and tax policies. As described earlier, the Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, its primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. In addition, the Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of the Company's common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their 9 supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of the Bank's assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. Likewise, the Company operates in an environment that imposes income taxes on its operations at both the federal and state levels to varying degrees. Strategies and operating routines have been implemented to minimize the impact of these taxes. Consequently, any change in tax legislation could significantly alter the effectiveness of these strategies. Negative events in certain geographic areas could adversely affect us. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for our mortgage loans is located could adversely affect our borrower's ability to repay and the value of the collateral. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as hurricanes. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key management personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified middle management personnel as we grow. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 