ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results and other forward-looking statements that we make from time to time in our news releases, annual reports and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking statements, and other statements made from time to time by our representatives. Our business faces unpredictable economic conditions, which could have an adverse effect on us. General economic conditions impact the banking industry. The credit quality of our loan portfolio necessarily reflects, among other things, the general economic conditions in the areas in which we conduct our business. Our continued financial success depends somewhat on factors beyond our control, including: • general economic conditions, including national and local real estate markets; • the supply of and demand for investable funds; • demand for loans and access to credit; • interest rates; and • federal, state and local laws affecting these matters. Any substantial deterioration in any of the foregoing conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, which would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In our business, we must effectively manage our credit risk. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate us for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the diversification by industry of our commercial loan portfolio, the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral, the volume, growth and composition of our loan portfolio, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers and the evaluation of our loan portfolio through our internal loan review process and other relevant factors. We maintain an allowance for credit losses in an attempt to cover credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. In determining the amount of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio, our experience and our evaluation of general economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to the allowance could materially decrease net income. 14 In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or recognize further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our business is concentrated in Texas and a downturn in the economy of Texas may adversely affect our business. Our network of subsidiary banks is concentrated in Texas, primarily in the Western and North Central regions of the state. Most of our customers and revenue are derived from this area. The economy of this region is focused on agriculture (including farming and ranching), commercial and industrial, medical, education, oil and gas production, and real estate. Because we generally do not derive revenue or customers from other parts of the state or nation, our business and operations are dependent on economic conditions in this part of Texas. Any significant decline in one or more segments of the local economy could adversely affect our business, revenue, operations and properties. Changes in economic conditions could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs, which could depress our income and growth. Our loan portfolios include many real estate secured loans, demand for which may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values, a slowdown in housing. If we continue to see negative economic conditions in the United States as a whole or in the portions of Texas that we serve, we could experience higher delinquencies and loan charge-offs, which would reduce our income and adversely affect our financial condition. Furthermore, to the extent that real estate collateral is obtained through foreclosure, the costs of holding and marketing the real estate collateral, as well as the ultimate values obtained from disposition could reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition. The value of real estate collateral may fluctuate significantly resulting in an under-collateralized loan portfolio. The market value of real estate, particularly real estate held for investment, can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. If the value of the real estate serving as collateral for our loan portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, then, in the event of foreclosure, we may not be able to realize the amount of collateral that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our provision for loan losses and our operating results and financial condition. We do business with other financial institutions that could experience financial difficulty. We do business through the purchase and sale of Federal funds, check clearing and through the purchase and sale of loan participations with other financial institutions. Because these financial institutions have many risks, as do we, we could be adversely effected should one of these financial institutions experience significant financial difficulties or fail to comply with our agreements with them. Recent developments in the mortgage market may affect our ability to originate loans and the profitability of loans in our mortgage pipeline. During 2008, the real estate housing market throughout the United States has softened resulting in an industry-wide increase in borrowers unable to make their mortgage payments and increased foreclosure rates. Lenders in certain sections of the housing and mortgage markets were forced to close or limit their operations or seek additional capital. In response, financial institutions have tightened their underwriting standards, limiting the availability of sources of credit and liquidity. If the housing/real estate market continues to have problems in the future, there could be a prolonged decrease in the demand for our loans in the secondary market, adversely affecting our earnings. 15 If we are unable to continue to originate residential real estate loans and sell them into the secondary market for a profit, our earnings could decrease. We derive a portion of our noninterest income from the origination of residential real estate loans and the subsequent sale of such loans into the secondary market. If we are unable to continue to originate and sell residential real estate loans at historical or greater levels, our residential real estate loan volume would decrease, which could decrease our earnings. A rising interest rate environment, general economic conditions or other factors beyond our control could adversely affect our ability to originate residential real estate loans. Additionally, we sell a large portion of our residential real estate loans to third party investors, and rising interest rates could negatively affect our ability to generate suitable profits on the sale of such loans. If interest rates increase after we originate the loans, our ability to market those loans is impaired as the profitability on the loans decreases. These fluctuations can have an adverse effect on the revenue we generate from residential real estate loans and in certain instances, could result in a loss on the sale of the loans. Recent trends in the student loan market may reduce the profitability we derive from originating and selling student loans and could lower our net income. Recent federal legislation will reduce federal subsidies to us for making student loans and require us to pay higher servicing fees. These factors may reduce the net income we earn from making these loans or force us to exit the student loan market completely. Additionally, recent trends in the capital markets may make it more difficult to sell our student loans to third parties or government agencies. If our ability to sell these loans to third parties or government agencies is reduced, we may realize reduced premiums from the sale of student loans or hold them for longer periods of time, or both. The trust wealth management fees we receive may decrease as a result of poor investment performance, in either relative or absolute terms, which could decrease our revenues and net earnings. Our trust company subsidiary derives its revenues primarily from investment management fees based on assets under management. Our ability to maintain or increase assets under management is subject to a number of factors, including investors’ perception of our past performance, in either relative or absolute terms, market and economic conditions, including changes in oil and gas prices, and competition from investment management companies. Financial markets are affected by many factors, all of which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, including changes in oil and gas prices; securities market conditions; the level and volatility of interest rates and equity prices; competitive conditions; liquidity of global markets; international and regional political conditions; regulatory and legislative developments; monetary and fiscal policy; investor sentiment; availability and cost of capital; technological changes and events; outcome of legal proceedings; changes in currency values; inflation; credit ratings; and the size, volume and timing of transactions. A decline in the fair value of the assets under management caused by a decline in general economic conditions would decrease our wealth management fee income. Investment performance is one of the most important factors in retaining existing clients and competing for new wealth management clients. Poor investment performance could reduce our revenues and impair our growth in the following ways: • existing clients may withdraw funds from our wealth management business in favor of better performing products; • asset-based management fees could decline from a decrease in assets under management; • our ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish; and • our wealth managers and investment advisors may depart, to join a competitor or otherwise. Even when market conditions are generally favorable, our investment performance may be adversely affected by the investment style of our wealth management and investment advisors and the particular investments that they make. To the extent our future investment performance is perceived to be poor in either relative or absolute terms, the revenues and profitability of our wealth management business will likely be reduced and our ability to attract new clients will likely be impaired. As such, fluctuations in the equity and debt markets can have a direct impact upon our net earnings. 16 Certain of our investment advisory and wealth management contracts are subject to termination on short notice, and termination of a significant number of investment advisory contracts could have a material adverse impact on our revenue. Certain of our investment advisory and wealth management clients can terminate their relationships with us, reduce their aggregate assets under management, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, inflation, changes in investment preferences of clients, changes in our reputation in the marketplace, change in management or control of clients, loss of key investment management personnel and financial market performance. We cannot be certain that our trust company subsidiary will be able to retain all of its clients. If its clients terminate their investment advisory and wealth management contracts, our trust company subsidiary, and consequently we, could lose a substantial portion of our revenues. Our business is subject to significant government regulation. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies, including the Texas Department of Banking, the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of shareholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of our shares, our acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for us to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of our operations. The bank regulatory agencies possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. As a result, future legislation and government policy could adversely affect the banking industry as a whole, including our results of operations. For example, new legislation or regulation may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Our FDIC insurance assessments are expected to increase substantially resulting in higher operating costs. The FDIC has announced a significant increase in the premiums charged for FDIC deposit insurance protection. We have historically paid the lowest premium rate available due to our sound financial position. The FDIC announced that 2009 premiums have more than doubled and should more bank failures occur, the FDIC premiums could continue to increase. This increased premium will have an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. We compete with many larger financial institutions which have substantially greater financial resources than we have. Competition among financial institutions in Texas is intense. We compete with other bank holding companies, state and national commercial banks, savings and loan associations, consumer financial companies, credit unions, securities brokers, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, money market mutual funds, asset-based non-bank lenders and other financial institutions. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources, larger lending limits, larger branch networks and less regulatory oversight than we do, and are able to offer a broader range of products and services than we can. Failure to compete effectively for deposit, loan and other banking customers in our markets could cause us to lose market share, slow our growth rate and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are significantly affected by interest rate levels. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income we earn as a result of interest paid to us on loans and investments and interest we pay to third parties such as our depositors and those from whom we borrow funds. Like most financial institutions, we are affected by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Interest rate risk can result from mismatches between the dollar amount of repricing or maturing assets and liabilities and from mismatches in 17 the timing and rate at which our assets and liabilities reprice. Although we have implemented strategies which we believe reduce the potential effects of adverse changes in interest rates on our results of operations, these strategies may not always be successful. In addition, any substantial and prolonged increase in market interest rates could reduce our customers’ desire to borrow money from us or adversely affect their ability to repay their outstanding loans by increasing their credit costs since most of our loans have adjustable interest rates that reset periodically. Any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. First Financial Bankshares, Inc. relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its revenue. First Financial Bankshares, Inc. is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock and interest and principal on First Financial Bankshares, Inc. debt (if we had balances outstanding). Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank subsidiaries may pay to First Financial Bankshares, Inc. In the event our bank subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends to First Financial Bankshares, Inc., First Financial Bankshares, Inc. may not be able to service debt or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from our bank subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. To continue our growth, we are affected by our ability to identify and acquire other financial institutions. We intend to continue our current growth strategy. This strategy includes opening new branches and acquiring other banks that serve customers or markets we find desirable. The market for acquisitions remains highly competitive, and we may be unable to find satisfactory acquisition candidates in the future that fit our acquisition and growth strategy. To the extent that we are unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of our growth strategy may be lost. Additionally, our completed acquisitions, or any future acquisitions, may not produce the revenue, earnings or synergies that we anticipated. Use of our common stock for future acquisitions or to raise capital may be dilutive to existing stockholders. When we determine that appropriate strategic opportunities exist, we may acquire other financial institutions and related businesses, subject to applicable regulatory requirements. We may use our common stock for such acquisitions. From time to time, we may also seek to raise capital through selling additional common stock. It is possible that the issuance of additional common stock in such acquisition or capital transactions may be dilutive to the interests of our existing stockholders. Our operational and financial results are affected by our ability to successfully integrate our acquisitions. Acquisitions of financial institutions involve operational risks and uncertainties and acquired companies may have unforeseen liabilities, exposure to asset quality problems, key employee and customer retention problems and other problems that could negatively affect our organization. We may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities that we acquire nor eliminate redundancies. The integration process may also require significant time and attention from our management that they would otherwise direct at servicing existing business and developing new business. Our failure to successfully integrate the entities we acquire into our existing operations may increase our operating costs significantly and adversely affect our business and earnings. We rely heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key management may adversely affect our operations. Our success to date has been strongly influenced by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking in the markets we serve. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams will continue to be important to successful implementation of our strategies. We do not have employment agreements with these key employees other than executive agreements in the event of a change of control and a confidential information, non-solicitation and non-competition agreement related to our stock options. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. 18 The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense and the Company may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Corporation’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Company’s stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; • new reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors; • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations involving the Company or its competitors; and • changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends could also cause the Company’s stock price to decrease regardless of operations results. Breakdowns in our internal controls and procedures could have an adverse effect on us. We believe our internal control system as currently documented and functioning is adequate to provide reasonable assurance over our internal controls. Nevertheless, because of the inherent limitation in administering a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Breakdowns in our internal controls and procedures could occur in the future, and any such breakdowns could have an adverse effect on us. See “Item 9A — Controls and Procedures” for additional information. We compete in an industry that continually experiences technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving the ability to serve customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for conveniences, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. 19 System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us, including our Internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us, damage our reputation and inhibit current and potential customers from our Internet banking services. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Report. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 