Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business 1. We are dependent on our ability to access data from external sources to maintain and grow our businesses. If we are unable to access needed data from these sources, the quality and availability of our products and services may be harmed, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely extensively upon data from external sources to maintain our proprietary and non-proprietary databases, including data from third-party suppliers and various government and public record sources. Our data sources could withdraw their data from us, or limit our use of their data, for a variety of reasons, including legislatively or judicially imposed restrictions on use. If a number of suppliers are no longer able or are unwilling to provide us with certain data, or if our public record sources of data become unavailable or uneconomical, we may need to find alternative sources. If we are unable to identify and contract with suitable alternative data suppliers and effectively integrate these data sources into our service offerings, we could experience service disruptions, increased costs and reduced quality of our services. Additionally, if one or more of our suppliers terminates our existing agreements, there is no assurance that we will obtain new agreements with third-party suppliers on terms favorable to us, if at all. Loss of such access or the availability of data in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all may reduce the quality and availability of our services and products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 2. Failure to comply with government regulations or changes in government regulation could result in regulatory penalties or prohibit or limit our or our customers’ operations or make it more burdensome to conduct such operations, which could have an adverse effect on revenues, earnings and cash flows. Many of our and our customers’ businesses are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with any applicable laws and regulations could result in restrictions on our ability to provide certain services, imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties, substantial regulatory and compliance costs, litigation expense, adverse publicity and loss of revenue. In addition, independent auditors annually review several of our operations to provide reports on internal controls for our customers’ auditors and regulators. For example, since we provide a variety of key services to federally regulated financial institutions, it appears more likely that federal financial institution regulators will also seek to perform compliance examinations on various parts of our operations. Changes in the applicable regulatory environment or interpretations of existing regulations or statutes or enhanced governmental oversight of us or our customers could negatively affect our operations. These changes may compel us to increase our prices in certain situations or decrease our price in other situations, may restrict our ability to implement price increases, may limit the manner in which we conduct our business or otherwise may have a negative impact on our ability to generate revenues, earnings and cash flows. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and the extensive regulations being promulgated thereunder materially alter consumer and financial markets regulation. The Dodd-Frank Act expands regulation of real estate appraisals, appraisal management companies, BPOs and AVMs. We also believe it is likely that some of our activities will be subject to examination and more active oversight by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau created by the Dodd-Frank Act. If we are unable to adapt our products and services to conform to the new laws and regulations, or if these laws and regulations have a negative impact on our customers, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. 3. Regulatory developments with respect to use of consumer data and public records could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our databases include certain personal, public and non-public personal information concerning consumers, we are subject to government regulation and potential adverse publicity concerning the use of consumer data. We provide many types of consumer data and related services that already are subject to regulation under the FCRA, the GLBA, and the Driver’s Privacy Protection Act and, to a lesser extent, various other federal, state, and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are designed to protect the privacy of the public and to prevent the misuse of personal information in the marketplace. Failure to comply with these laws by us could result in substantial regulatory penalties, litigation expense and loss of revenue. The suppliers of data to us face similar regulatory requirements and, consequently, they may cease to be able to provide data to us or may substantially increase the fees they charge us for this data which may make it financially burdensome or impossible for us to acquire data that is necessary to offer our products and services. Further, many consumer advocates, privacy advocates and government regulators believe that existing laws and regulations do not adequately protect privacy. As a result, they are seeking further restrictions on the dissemination or commercial use of personal information to the public and private sectors. Any such restrictions may reduce the quality and availability of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 4. If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, or if we are unable to provide adequate security in the electronic transmission of sensitive data, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to securely process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce. Security breaches of this infrastructure, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such security or privacy breaches, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer loss of reputation, financial loss and other regulatory penalties because of lost or misappropriated information, including sensitive consumer data. 15 Likewise, our customers are increasingly imposing more stringent contractual obligations on us relating to our information security protections. If we are unable to maintain protections and processes at a level commensurate with that required by our large customers, it could negatively affect our relationships with those customers and harm our business. 5. Systems interruptions may impair the delivery of our products and services, causing potential customer and revenue loss. System interruptions may impair the delivery of our products and services, resulting in a loss of customers and a corresponding loss in revenue. We depend heavily upon computer systems located in our data centers, including our centers in Santa Ana, California and Westlake, Texas. Certain events beyond our control, including natural disasters and telecommunications failures, could temporarily or permanently interrupt the delivery of products and services. These interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers’ ability to provide necessary data and our employees’ ability to attend work and perform their responsibilities. Such interruptions and intrusions may cause a loss of customers and a loss in revenue. 6. Declines in the mortgage and consumer credit market may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. A substantial portion of our revenues are affected by mortgage origination and residential real estate transaction volumes, particularly in our mortgage origination services, risk and fraud analytics and specialty finance solutions groups. Projections from the Mortgage Bankers Association, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac point to a decline in mortgage originations in 2011 compared to 2010. A worsening of these conditions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These conditions have also had an impact on and continue to impact, the performance and financial condition of some of our customers in many segments in which we operate. Should these parties continue to encounter material issues, those issues may lead to negative impacts on our revenue, earnings and liquidity. 7. Increases in the size of our mortgage industry customers enhance their negotiating position with respect to pricing and terms, may decrease their need for our services, and may increase our exposure to loss or consolidation of such customers. Many of our mortgage industry customers are increasing in size as a result of consolidation or the failure of their competitors. For example, we believe that three lenders collectively originate more than 50% of mortgage loans in the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we had one customer (JPMorgan Chase & Co.) that accounted for approximately 10.6% of our consolidated operating revenues (14.5% of the operating revenues in our business and information services segment and 5.9% in our data and analytics segment). As a result, we may derive a higher percentage of our revenues from a smaller base of larger customers, which would enhance the ability of these customers to negotiate more favorable terms for our products and services, including more favorable pricing. These larger customers may also begin performing internally some or all of the services we provide and, consequently, their demand for our products and services may decrease. Any of these developments could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, changes in our relationship with one or more of our largest customers or the loss of all or a substantial portion of the business we derive from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 8. We rely upon proprietary technology and information rights, and if we are unable to protect our rights, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Our success depends, in part, upon our intellectual property rights. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and trademark laws and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution to protect our proprietary technology and information. This protection is limited, and our intellectual property could be used by others without our consent. In addition, patents may not be issued with respect to our pending or future patent applications, and our patents may not be upheld as valid or may not prevent the development of competitive products. Any infringement, disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our competitive position, and ultimately, our business. Moreover, litigation may be necessary to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could be time-consuming, result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 9. If our products or services are found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. As we continue to develop and expand our products and services, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims from third parties such as software providers or suppliers of data. Likewise, if we are unable to maintain adequate controls over how third-party software and data are used we may be subject to claims of infringement. Any claims, whether with or without merit, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; • divert management’s attention and resources; and • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. 10. The agreement governing our credit facility subjects us to various restrictions that could limit our operating flexibility. The agreement governing our credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on our activities. These restrictions include compliance with certain financial tests and ratios, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio, and limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things: • create, incur or assume additional debt; • create, incur or assume certain liens; • redeem and/or prepay certain subordinated debt we might issue in the future; • pay dividends on our stock or repurchase stock; • make certain investments and acquisitions, including joint ventures; • enter into or permit to exist contractual limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; • enter into new lines of business; • engage in consolidations, mergers and acquisitions; • engage in specified sales of assets; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could impact our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us. 11. We operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. We compete for existing and new customers against both third parties and the in-house capabilities of our customers. Some of our competitors, such as the credit bureaus, have substantial resources. Some have widely used technology platforms that they seek to use as a competitive advantage to drive sales of other products and services. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. These competitors and new technologies may render our existing technology obsolete, resulting in operating inefficiencies and increased competitive pressure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 12. We may not be successfully able to consummate or integrate acquisitions, which may harm our ability to develop and grow our business and operations. Our business strategy includes growth through acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, obtain the capital necessary to pursue acquisitions or complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms. A number of our competitors also have adopted the strategy of expanding and diversifying through acquisitions. We likely will experience competition in our efforts to execute on any proposed acquisitions, and we expect the level of competition to increase. As a result, we may be unable to continue to make acquisitions or may be forced to pay more for the companies we are able to acquire, which could slow the growth of our business and operations. Additionally, the obligations imposed on us to avoid certain transactions in respect of our capital stock and or assets in order to preserve the planned tax-free nature of the Separation may limit our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy without adversely impacting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Likewise, if we fail properly to integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies and personnel, it could impair relationships with employees, customers and strategic partners, distract management attention, result in control failures and otherwise disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. 13. Our international operations subject us to additional risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Over the last few years, we have reduced our costs by utilizing lower cost labor in foreign countries such as India and the Philippines. For example, at December 31, 2010, 4,127 of our employees were based in India. These countries are subject to relatively higher degrees of political and social instability and may lack the infrastructure to withstand political unrest or natural disasters. Such disruptions can decrease efficiency and increase our costs in these countries. Weakness of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies used in these foreign countries may also reduce the savings achievable through this strategy. Furthermore, the practice of utilizing labor based in foreign countries has come under increased scrutiny in the United States and, as a result, some of our customers may require us to use labor based in the United States. We may not be able to pass on the increased costs of higher-priced United States-based labor to our customers, which ultimately could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). Any violations of the FCPA or local anti-corruption laws by us, our subsidiaries or our local agents, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation and result in substantial financial penalties or other sanctions. 14. We may not be able to attract qualified management or develop current management to keep pace with company growth, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain or increase our product and service offerings. We rely on skilled management and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of such individuals. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. We compete for talented individuals not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies, and there is a limited pool of individuals who have the skills and training needed to grow our company. If our business continues to grow, the number of individuals we will need to develop and hire will increase. We will also need to increase our hiring if we are not able to maintain our attrition rate through our current recruiting and retention policies. Increased competition for qualified management could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and product offerings, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs. 15. We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions and an impairment of these investments would require a write-down that would reduce our net income. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), existing goodwill is not amortized but instead is required to be assessed annually for impairment or sooner if circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization and negative industry or economic trends. In the event that the book value of goodwill is impaired, any such impairment would be charged to earnings in the period of impairment. In the event of significant volatility in the capital markets or a worsening of current economic conditions, we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Possible future impairment of goodwill under accounting guidance may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Risks Relating to the Separation of FAFC 1. Our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future results as a stand-alone company. The historical financial information we have included in prior filings for periods ending prior to June 1, 2010, and the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements as of and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 filed on Form 8-K on March 22, 2010, may not reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we been a stand-alone company during the periods presented and may not be indicative of what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be in the future now that we are a stand-alone company. Specifically, the pro forma financial information and the financial information does not reflect any increased costs associated with being a stand-alone company, including changes in our cost structure and personnel needs. Any difficulty in successfully integrating or managing the operations of the businesses on a stand-alone basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, and could lead to a failure to realize any anticipated synergies. 2. The Separation could give rise to liabilities, increased operating expense or other unfavorable effects that may not have otherwise arisen. The Separation may lead to increased operating and other expenses, both of a non-recurring and a recurring nature, and changes to certain operations, which expenses or changes could arise pursuant to arrangements made with FAFC or the triggering of rights and obligations to third parties. In addition, FAFC may provide more competition in our lines of business than it would have if the companies remained together. For example, FAFC has a small offering of appraisal-related services that may compete with certain of our products and services. With the exception of a noncompetition agreement related to the tax services business, there will be no prohibition on either us or FAFC competing with the other party. Litigation with FAFC or other third parties could also arise out of the transaction, and we could experience unfavorable reactions to the Separation from customers, employees, ratings agencies or other interested parties. 3. We will be responsible for a portion of FAFC’s contingent and other corporate liabilities, primarily those relating to stockholder litigation. Under the Separation and Distribution Agreement and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement, each of us and FAFC is responsible for 50% of certain of FAC’s contingent and other corporate liabilities. All external costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities will be shared equally. These contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to consolidated securities litigation and any actions with respect to the separation plan or the distribution brought by any third party. Contingent and other corporate liabilities that are specifically related to only the information solutions business will generally be fully allocated to us and those that are specifically related to only the financial services business will generally be fully allocated to FAFC. If any party responsible for such liabilities were to default on its payment of any of these assumed obligations, the non-defaulting party may be required to pay the amounts in default. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of the agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated costs and expenses. 4. We will share responsibility for certain income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the date of the Distribution. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we are generally responsible for all taxes that are attributable to members of the information solutions group of companies or the assets, liabilities or businesses of the information group of companies and FAFC is generally responsible for all taxes attributable to members of the FAFC group of companies or the assets, liabilities or businesses of the FAFC group of companies. Generally, any liabilities arising from adjustments to prior year (or partial year with respect to 2010) consolidated tax returns will be shared in proportion to each company’s percentage of the tax liability for the relevant year (or partial year with respect to 2010), unless the adjustment is attributable to either party, in which case the adjustment will generally be for the account of such party. In addition to this potential liability associated with adjustments for prior periods, if FAFC were to fail to pay any tax liability it is required to pay under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of tax liabilities. 19 5. If the Distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the Separation are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and FAFC will incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In connection with the Separation we received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the Separation will qualify for favorable treatment under the Code, the contribution by us of certain assets of the financial services businesses to FAFC, and the pro-rata distribution to our shareholders of the common stock of FAFC will, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. In addition, we received opinions of tax counsel to similar effect. The ruling and opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us and FAFC regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, we and our stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the Separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of us or FAFC after the Separation. If the Separation is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In addition, under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the Distribution were determined to be taxable and such determination were the result of actions taken after the Distribution by us or FAFC, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us or FAFC as a result thereof. 6. In connection with the Separation, we entered into a number of agreements with FAFC setting forth rights and obligations of the parties post Separation. In addition, certain provisions of these agreements provide protection to FAFC in the event of a change of control of us, which could reduce the likelihood of a potential change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. In connection with the Separation, we and FAFC entered into a number of agreements that set forth certain rights and obligations of the parties post-Separation, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Tax Sharing Agreement, the Restrictive Covenants Agreement, certain transition services agreements and leases for our data center and headquarters facilities in Santa Ana. We possess certain rights under those agreements, including without limitation indemnity rights from certain liabilities allocated to FAFC. The failure of FAFC to perform its obligations under the agreements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the Separation and Distribution Agreement gives FAFC the right to purchase the equity or assets of our entity or entities directly or indirectly owning the real property databases that we currently own upon the occurrence of certain triggering events. The triggering events include the direct or indirect purchase of the databases by a title insurance underwriter (or its affiliate) or an entity licensed as a title insurance underwriter, including a transaction where a title insurance underwriter (or its affiliate) acquires 25% or more of us. Such a triggering event also triggers the ability of FAFC to terminate our data center and headquarters leases upon 30 days notice. The purchase right expires June 1, 2020. Until the expiration of the purchase right, this provision could have the effect of limiting or discouraging an acquisition of us or preventing a change of control that our stockholders might consider favorable. Likewise, if a triggering event occurs, the loss of ownership of our real property database and our need to move our headquarters and data center very abruptly could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and results of operations. 20 7. As a stand-alone, publicly traded company, we may not enjoy the same benefits that we did when we were part of a larger organization that included the FAFC businesses. As part of the FAC organizational structure, our businesses were able to enjoy certain benefits from the operating diversity, purchasing power, available capital for investments, flexibility in tax planning and opportunities to pursue integrated strategies with FAC’s other businesses. After the Separation of FAFC, we do not have similar diversity or integration opportunities and may not have similar purchasing power, credit rating, flexibility in tax planning or access to capital markets. 8. Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors and officers of our related parties. Because of their current or former positions with FAC prior to the Separation, several of our executive officers, including our executive chairman, our president and chief executive officer, and most of our directors, beneficially own common shares of FAFC that they received in the Separation. Our executive chairman, who also serves as FAFC’s executive chairman, continues to own options to purchase common shares of FAFC and FAFC restricted stock units. These dual roles and equity interests in FAFC may create, or create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that do not benefit us and FAFC in the same manner. 9. We might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances following the Separation because of restrictions relating to U.S. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. Our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted in order to preserve for U.S. federal income tax purposes the tax-free nature of the Distribution by FAC. Even if the Distribution otherwise qualified for tax-free treatment under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, it may result in corporate level taxable gain to us under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our common stock or FAFC’s common stock are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of shares of FAC’s common stock within two years before the Distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common stock or FAFC’s common stock within two years after the Distribution generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although FAFC or we may be able to rebut that presumption. Prior to the Distribution, FAC issued to FAFC and FAFC’s principal title insurance subsidiary a total of approximately 13 million shares, which represented approximately 11% of FAC’s shares outstanding at the time of the issuance. In addition, in November 2009 FAC issued approximately 9.5 million shares of common stock in connection with its acquisition of the minority interest shares of its then publicly traded subsidiary, First Advantage Corporation. This represented approximately 9% of FAC’s shares currently outstanding. Both of these issuances could count towards the 50% limitation, which could hinder our ability to issue additional shares during the two year period following the Distribution. If an acquisition or issuance of our common stock or FAFC’s common stock triggers the application of Section 355(e) of the Code, we would recognize taxable gain for which FAF could be wholly or partially liable as described above. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, there are restrictions on our ability and FAFC’s ability to take actions that could cause the Distribution to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction, including redemption of equity securities, a sale or other disposition of a substantial portion of assets, and an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities. These restrictions will apply for 25 months following the Distribution, unless the party seeking to engage in such activity obtains the consent of the other party or obtains a private letter ruling from the IRS or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized firm that such action will not cause the Distribution to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction, and such letter ruling or opinion, as the case may be, is acceptable to each party. Moreover, the Tax Sharing Agreement generally provides that each party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on the other party as a result of the failure of the distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction under the Code if such failure is attributable to post-Distribution actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its stockholders, regardless of when the actions occur after the Distribution, the other party consents to such actions or such party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion of tax counsel as described above. For example, we would be responsible for a third party’s acquisition of us at a time and in a manner that would cause a failure of the Distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction under the Code. These restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our stockholders. 21 10. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem attractive. Pursuant to the private letter ruling received from the IRS in connection with the Separation, FAFC and its wholly-owned subsidiary First American Title Insurance Company (“FATICO”) will be required, respectively, to dispose of the retained shares of our common stock by June 1, 2015. As a result, FAFC and FATICO, respectively, may be required to sell some or all of its retained shares of our common stock at a time when it might not otherwise choose to do so. Furthermore, any such disposition by FAFC or FATICO, respectively, of its shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such dispositions could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 