Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company faces risks other than those listed here, including those that are unknown to the Company and others of which the Company may be aware but, at present, considers immaterial. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting the Company’s operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 1. Conditions in the real estate market generally impact the demand for a substantial portion of the Company’s products and services Demand for a substantial portion of the Company’s products and services generally decreases as the number of real estate transactions in which its products and services are purchased decreases. The number of real estate transactions in which the Company’s products and services are purchased decreases in the following situations: • when mortgage interest rates are high or rising; • when the availability of credit, including commercial and residential mortgage funding, is limited; and • when real estate values are declining. 16 Table of Contents 2. Unfavorable economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the Company Uncertainty and negative trends in general economic conditions in the United States and abroad, including significant tightening of credit markets and a general decline in the value of real property, historically have created a difficult operating environment for the Company’s businesses and other companies in its industries. In addition, the Company holds investments in entities, such as title agencies, settlement service providers, data and analytics providers and property and casualty insurance companies, and instruments, such as mortgage backed securities, which may be negatively impacted by these conditions. The Company also owns a federal savings bank into which it deposits some of its own funds and some funds held in trust for third parties. This bank invests those funds and any realized losses incurred will be reflected in the Company’s consolidated results. The likelihood of such losses, which generally would not occur if the Company were to deposit these funds in an unaffiliated entity, increases when economic conditions are unfavorable. Depending upon the ultimate severity and duration of any economic downturn, the resulting effects on the Company could be materially adverse, including a significant reduction in revenues, earnings and cash flows, challenges to the Company’s ability to satisfy covenants or otherwise meet its obligations under debt facilities, difficulties in obtaining access to capital, challenges to the Company’s ability to pay dividends at currently anticipated levels, deterioration in the value of its investments and increased credit risk from customers and others with obligations to the Company. 3. Unfavorable economic or other conditions could cause the Company to write off a portion of its goodwill and other intangible assets The Company performs an impairment test of the carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets annually in the fourth quarter or sooner if circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Finite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment tests on a periodic basis. Factors that may be considered in connection with this review include, without limitation, underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, reductions in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, increased cost of capital and negative macroeconomic, industry and company-specific trends. These and other factors could lead to a conclusion that goodwill or other intangible assets are no longer fully recoverable, in which case the Company would be required to write off the portion believed to be unrecoverable. Total goodwill and other intangible assets reflected on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 is approximately $2.9 billion. Any substantial goodwill and other intangible asset impairments that may be required could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 4. A downgrade by ratings agencies, reductions in statutory surplus maintained by the Company’s title insurance underwriters or a deterioration in other measures of financial strength may negatively affect the Company’s results of operations and competitive position Certain of the Company’s customers use measurements of the financial strength of the Company’s title insurance underwriters, including, among others, ratings provided by ratings agencies and levels of statutory surplus maintained by those underwriters, in determining the amount of a policy they will accept and the amount of reinsurance required. Each of the major ratings agencies currently rates the Company’s title insurance operations. These ratings provide the agencies’ perspectives on the financial strength, operating performance and cash generating ability of those operations. These agencies continually review these ratings and the ratings are subject to change. Statutory surplus, or the amount by which statutory assets exceed statutory liabilities, is also a measure of financial strength. Accordingly, if the ratings or statutory surplus of these title insurance underwriters are reduced from their current levels, or if there is a deterioration in other measures of financial strength, the Company’s results of operations, competitive position and liquidity could be adversely affected. 5. Failures at financial institutions at which the Company deposits funds could adversely affect the Company The Company deposits substantial funds in financial institutions. These funds include amounts owned by third parties, such as escrow deposits. Should one or more of the financial institutions at which deposits are 17 Table of Contents maintained fail, there is no guarantee that the Company would recover the funds deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage or otherwise. In the event of any such failure, the Company also could be held liable for the funds owned by third parties. 6. Changes in government regulation could prohibit or limit the Company’s operations or make it more burdensome to conduct such operations Many of the Company’s businesses, including its title insurance, property and casualty insurance, home warranty, thrift, trust and investment businesses, are regulated by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. These and other of the Company’s businesses also operate within statutory guidelines. Changes in the applicable regulatory environment, statutory guidelines or interpretations of existing regulations or statutes, enhanced governmental oversight or efforts by governmental agencies to cause customers to refrain from using the Company’s products or services could prohibit or limit its future operations or make it more burdensome to conduct such operations. These changes may compel the Company to reduce its prices, may restrict its ability to implement price increases or acquire assets or businesses, may limit the manner in which the Company conducts its business or otherwise may have a negative impact on its ability to generate revenues, earnings and cash flows. 7. Scrutiny of the Company’s businesses and the industries in which it operates by governmental entities and others could adversely affect its operations and financial condition The real estate settlement services industry, an industry in which the Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue and earnings, has become subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators, legislators, the media and plaintiffs’ attorneys. Though often directed at the industry generally, these groups may also focus their attention directly on the Company’s businesses. In either case, this scrutiny may result in changes which could adversely affect the Company’s operations and, therefore, its financial condition and liquidity. Governmental entities have inquired into certain practices in the real estate settlement services industry to determine whether certain of the Company’s businesses or its competitors have violated applicable laws, which include, among others, the insurance codes of the various jurisdictions and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and similar state and federal laws. Departments of insurance in the various states, either separately or in conjunction with federal regulators, also periodically conduct inquiries, generally referred to at the state level as “market conduct exams,” into the practices of title insurance companies in their respective jurisdictions. Further, from time to time plaintiffs’ lawyers may target the Company and other members of the Company’s industry with lawsuits claiming legal violations or other wrongful conduct. These lawsuits may involve large groups of plaintiffs and claims for substantial damages. Any of these types of inquiries or proceedings may result in a finding of a violation of the law or other wrongful conduct and may result in the payment of fines or damages or the imposition of restrictions on the Company’s conduct which could impact its operations and financial condition. Moreover, these laws and standards of conduct often are ambiguous and, thus, it may be difficult to ensure compliance. This ambiguity may force the Company to mitigate its risk by settling claims or by ending practices that generate revenues, earnings and cash flows. 8. The Company may find it difficult to acquire necessary data Certain data used and supplied by the Company are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Compliance with existing federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to such data has not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity to date. Nonetheless, federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States designed to protect the public from the misuse of personal information in the marketplace and adverse publicity or potential litigation concerning the commercial use of such information may affect the Company’s operations and could result in substantial regulatory compliance expense, litigation expense and a loss of revenue. The suppliers of data to the Company face similar burdens and, consequently, the Company may find it financially burdensome to acquire necessary data. 18 Table of Contents 9. Regulation of title insurance rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations Title insurance rates are subject to extensive regulation, which varies from state to state. In many states the approval of the applicable state insurance regulator is required prior to implementing a rate change. This regulation could hinder the Company’s ability to promptly adapt to changing market dynamics through price adjustments, which could adversely affect its results of operations, particularly in a rapidly declining market. 10. As a holding company, the Company depends on distributions from its subsidiaries, and if distributions from its subsidiaries are materially impaired, the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends may be adversely affected; in addition, insurance and other regulations may limit the amount of dividends, loans and advances available from the Company’s insurance subsidiaries The Company is a holding company whose primary assets are investments in its operating subsidiaries. The Company’s ability to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or repay funds. If the Company’s operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends or repay funds, the Company may not be able to fulfill parent company obligations and/or declare and pay dividends to its shareholders. Moreover, pursuant to insurance and other regulations under which the Company’s insurance subsidiaries operate, the amount of dividends, loans and advances available is limited. Under such regulations, the maximum amount of dividends, loans and advances available in 2010 from these insurance subsidiaries, is $258.0 million. 11. The Company’s pension plan is currently underfunded and pension expenses and funding obligations could increase significantly as a result of the weak performance of financial markets and its effect on plan assets The Company’s defined benefit pension plan was closed to new entrants effective December 31, 2001 and amended to “freeze” all benefit accruals as of April 30, 2008. The Company’s future funding obligations for this plan depend, among other factors, upon the future performance of assets held in trust for the plan. The pension plan was underfunded as of December 31, 2009 by approximately $99.4 million and the Company may need to make significant contributions to the plan. In addition, pension expenses and funding requirements may also be greater than currently anticipated if the market values of the assets held by the pension plan decline or if the other assumptions regarding plan earnings and expenses require adjustment. The Company’s obligations under this plan could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 12. Weakness in the commercial real estate market or an increase in the amount or severity of claims in connection with commercial real estate transactions could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations The Company issues title insurance policies in connection with commercial real estate transactions. Premiums paid and limits on these policies are large relative to policies issued on residential transactions. Because a claim under a single policy could be significant, title insurers often seek reinsurance or coinsurance from other insurance companies, both within and outside the industry. The Company both receives and provides such coverage. Additionally, the pretax margin derived from these policies generally is higher than on other policies. Disruptions in the commercial real estate market, including limitations on available credit and defaults on loans secured by commercial real estate, may result in a decrease in the number of commercial policies issued by the Company and/or an increase in the number of claims it incurs on commercial policies. As a reference, commercial premiums earned by the Company in 2009 decreased nearly 50 percent compared with the amount earned in 2006. A further decrease in the number of commercial policies issued by the Company or an increase in the amount or severity of claims we incur on commercial policies could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. 13. Actual claims experience could materially vary from the expected claims experience reflected in the Company’s reserve for incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) title claims Title insurance policies are long-duration contracts with the majority of the claims reported within the first few years following the issuance of the policy. Generally, 70 to 80 percent of claim amounts become known in 19 Table of Contents the first five years of the policy life, and the majority of IBNR reserves relate to the five most recent policy years. A material change in expected ultimate losses and corresponding loss rates for policy years older than five years, while possible, is not considered reasonably likely. However, changes in expected ultimate losses and corresponding loss rates for recent policy years are considered likely and could result in a material adjustment to the IBNR reserves. Based on historical experience, management believes a 50 basis point change to the loss rates for the most recent policy years, positive or negative, is believed to be reasonably likely given the long duration nature of a title insurance policy. For example, if the expected ultimate losses for each of the last five policy years increased or decreased by 50 basis points, the resulting impact on the Company’s IBNR reserve would be an increase or decrease, as the case may be, of $123.3 million. The estimates made by management in determining the appropriate level of IBNR reserves could ultimately prove to be inaccurate and actual claims experience may vary from the expected claims experience. 14. Systems interruptions and intrusions may impair the delivery of the Company’s products and services System interruptions and intrusions may impair the delivery of the Company’s products and services, resulting in a loss of customers and a corresponding loss in revenue. The Company’s businesses depend heavily upon computer systems located in its data centers. Certain events beyond the Company’s control, including natural disasters, telecommunications failures and intrusions into the Company’s systems by third parties could temporarily or permanently interrupt the delivery of products and services. These interruptions also may interfere with suppliers’ ability to provide necessary data and employees’ ability to attend work and perform their responsibilities. 15. The Company may not be able to realize the benefits of its offshore strategy The Company utilizes lower cost labor in foreign countries, such as India and the Philippines, among others. These countries are subject to relatively high degrees of political and social instability and may lack the infrastructure to withstand natural disasters. Such disruptions could decrease efficiency and increase the Company’s costs in these countries. Weakness of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies used in these foreign countries may also reduce the savings achievable through this strategy. Furthermore, the practice of utilizing labor based in foreign countries has come under increased scrutiny in the United States and, as a result, some of the Company’s customers may require it to use labor based in the United States. The Company may not be able to pass on the increased costs of higher priced United States-based labor to its customers. 16. The Company may not be able to consummate the spin-off transaction, consummate such transaction in its originally proposed form, or realize the anticipated benefits thereof On January 15, 2008, the Company announced its intention to spin-off its financial services businesses, consisting primarily of its title insurance and specialty insurance reporting segments, into a separate public company. The proposed transaction is highly complex. Because, among other factors, a number of the Company’s businesses are regulated and intertwined and the Company is a party to a multitude of transactions, the completion of the transaction may require significant time, effort and expense. This could lead to a distraction from the day to day operations of the Company’s business, which could adversely affect those operations. In addition, the transaction will require certain regulatory approvals and the final approval of the Company’s Board of Directors, and may require other third party consents, which could be withheld, or the receipt of which could require the Company to make undesirable concessions or accommodations. The landscape of the real estate and mortgage credit markets also has changed substantially since early 2008, including the dissolution or expected dissolution of certain financial institutions, the bankruptcy of a large competitor of the Company and further consolidation among the Company’s current and potential customers. Market conditions also have put pressure on the revenues, earnings and cash flows of participants in the industries in which the Company operates, including the Company. For these reasons, as well as other potential factors such as the inability to transfer assets into the entity being spun-off or unfavorable reactions from customers, ratings agencies, investors or other interested persons, the Company may not be able to consummate the spin-off transaction or may not be able to consummate the transaction in the form originally proposed. Should the transaction be consummated, factors in 20 Table of Contents addition to those described above could prevent one or both of the resulting companies from being able to realize the anticipated benefits of the separation. These factors include increased borrowing costs, competition between the resulting companies, unfavorable reactions from employees, any inability of the financial services company to pay the anticipated level of dividends, the triggering of rights and obligations by the transaction or any litigation arising out of or related to the separation. 17. Product migration may result in decreased revenue Customers of many real estate settlement services the Company provides increasingly require these services to be delivered faster, cheaper and more efficiently. Many of the traditional products it provides are labor and time intensive. As these customer pressures increase, the Company may be forced to replace traditional products with automated products that can be delivered electronically and with limited human processing. Because many of these traditional products have higher prices than corresponding automated products, the Company’s revenues may decline. 18. Increases in the size of the Company’s customers enhance their negotiating position with respect to pricing and terms and may decrease their need for the services offered by the Company Many of the Company’s customers are increasing in size as a result of consolidation or the failure of their competitors. As a result, the Company may derive a higher percentage of its revenues from a smaller base of customers, which would enhance the ability of these customers to negotiate, where permitted by law, more favorable pricing and more favorable terms for the Company’s products and services. Moreover, these larger customers may prove more capable of performing in-house some or all of the services the Company provides and, consequently, their demand for its products and services may decrease. These circumstances could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and profitability. 19. Certain provisions of the Company’s articles of incorporation may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that the Company’s shareholders might consider favorable The Company’s restated articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Company’s Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Company’s board is empowered, without further shareholder action, to issue shares or series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights, including the ability to receive dividends, of the Company’s common shareholders. The issuance of such preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorably by the Company’s shareholders. Although the Company has no present intention of issuing any additional shares or series of preferred stock, the Company cannot guarantee that it will not make such an issuance in the future. 20. The Company’s investment portfolio is subject to certain risks and could experience losses The Company maintains a substantial investment portfolio, primarily consisting of fixed income securities (including mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities), but also including money-market and other short-term investments, as well as some common and preferred stock. Securities in the Company’s investment portfolio are subject to certain economic and financial market risks, such as credit risk, interest rate (including call, prepayment and extension) risk and/or liquidity risk. The risk of loss associated with the portfolio is increased during periods, such as the present period, of instability in credit markets and economic conditions. If the carrying value of the investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the Company will be required to write down the value of the investments, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 