Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company faces risks other than those listed here, including those that are unknown to the Company and others of which the Company may be aware but, at present, considers immaterial. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting the Company’s operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 1. Conditions in the real estate market generally impact the demand for a substantial portion of the Company’s products and services Demand for a substantial portion of the Company’s products and services generally decreases as the number of real estate transactions in which the Company’s products and services are purchased decreases. The Company has found that the number of real estate transactions in which the Company’s products and services are purchased decreases in the following situations: • when mortgage interest rates are high; • when the availability of credit, including mortgage funding, is limited; and • when real estate values are declining. 2. Current unfavorable economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the Company Recent uncertainty and negative trends in general economic conditions in the United States and abroad, including significant tightening of credit markets and a general decline in the value of real property, have created a difficult operating environment for the Company and other companies in the industries in which it operates. In addition, the Company holds investments in entities, such as title agents, settlement service providers, and data and analytics providers, and instruments, such as mortgage backed securities, which may be negatively impacted by these conditions. The Company also owns a federal savings bank into which it deposits some of its own funds and some funds it holds in trust for third parties. This bank invests those funds and any realized losses incurred are reflected in the consolidated results of the Company. The likelihood of such losses, which generally would not occur if the Company deposited these funds in an unaffiliated entity, increases when economic conditions are unfavorable. The ultimate depth and duration of the economic downturn are unknown. Depending upon the ultimate severity and duration of these conditions, the resulting effects on the Company could be materially adverse, including a significant reduction in the Company’s revenues, earnings and cash flows, challenges to the Company’s ability to satisfy covenants or otherwise meet its obligations under debt facilities, difficulties in obtaining access to capital, challenges to the Company’s ability to maintain its current dividend, deterioration in the value of the Company’s investments and increased credit risk from customers and others with obligations to the Company. 16 Table of Contents 3. A downgrade by ratings agencies, reductions in statutory surplus maintained by the Company’s title insurance underwriters or a deterioration in other measures of financial strength may negatively affect the Company’s results of operations and competitive position Certain of the Company’s customers use measurements of the financial strength of the Company’s title insurance underwriters, including, among others, ratings provided by ratings agencies and levels of statutory surplus maintained by those underwriters, in determining the amount of a policy they will accept and the amount of reinsurance required. Each of the major ratings agencies rates the Company’s title insurance operations. These ratings provide the agencies’ perspectives on the financial strength, operating performance and cash generating ability of those operations. These agencies continually review these ratings and the ratings are subject to change. Statutory surplus, or the amount by which statutory assets exceed statutory liabilities, is also a measure of financial strength. Accordingly, if the ratings or statutory surplus of the Company’s title insurance underwriters are reduced from their current levels, or if there is a deterioration in other measures of financial strength, the Company’s results of operations, competitive position and liquidity could be adversely affected. 4. Failures at financial institutions at which the Company deposits funds could adversely affect the Company The Company deposits substantial funds in financial institutions. These funds include amounts owned by third parties, such as escrow deposits. Should one or more of the financial institutions at which the Company maintains deposits fail, there is no guarantee that the Company would recover the funds it has deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage or otherwise. In the event of any such failure, the Company also could be held liable for the funds owned by third parties. Such events could be disruptive to the Company’s business and could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. 5. Changes in government regulation could prohibit or limit the Company’s operations or make it more burdensome to conduct such operations The Company’s title insurance, property and casualty insurance, home warranty, thrift, trust and investment businesses are regulated by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. Many of the Company’s other businesses operate within statutory guidelines. Changes in the applicable regulatory environment, statutory guidelines or in interpretations of existing regulations or statutes, enhanced governmental oversight or efforts by governmental agencies to cause customers to refrain from using the Company’s products or services could prohibit or limit the Company’s existing or future operations or make it more burdensome to conduct such operations. These changes may compel the Company to reduce its prices, may restrict the Company’s ability to implement price increases, may restrict the Company’s ability to acquire assets or businesses, may limit the manner in which the Company conducts its business or otherwise may have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to generate revenues, earnings and cash flows. 6. Scrutiny of the Company and the industries in which it operates by governmental entities and others could adversely affect its operations and financial condition The real estate settlement services industry—an industry in which the Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue and earnings—has become subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators, legislators, the media and plaintiffs’ attorneys. Though often directed at the industry generally, these groups may also focus their attention directly on the Company. In either case, this scrutiny may result in changes which could adversely affect the Company’s operations and, therefore, its financial condition and liquidity. Governmental entities have inquired into certain practices in the real estate settlement services industry to determine whether the Company or its competitors have violated applicable law, which include, among others, the insurance codes of the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates and the Real Estate Settlement 17 Table of Contents Procedures Act and similar state and federal laws. Departments of insurance in the various states, either separately or in conjunction with federal regulators, also periodically conduct inquiries, generally referred to at the state level as “market conduct exams”, into the practices of title insurance companies in their respective jurisdictions. Further, from time to time plaintiffs’ lawyers target the Company and other members of the Company’s industry with lawsuits claiming legal violations or other wrongful conduct. These lawsuits may involve large groups of plaintiffs and claims for substantial damages. Any of these types of inquiries or proceedings may result in a finding of a violation of the law or other wrongful conduct and may result in the payment of fines or damages or the imposition of restrictions on the Company’s conduct which could impact its operations and financial condition. Moreover, these laws and standards of conduct often are ambiguous and, thus, it may be difficult to ensure compliance. This ambiguity may force the Company to mitigate its risk by settling claims or by ending practices that generate revenues, earnings and cash flows. 7. The Company may find it difficult to acquire necessary data Certain data used and supplied by the Company are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Compliance with existing federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to such data has not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity to date. Nonetheless, federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States designed to protect the public from the misuse of personal information in the marketplace and adverse publicity or potential litigation concerning the commercial use of such information may affect the Company’s operations and could result in substantial regulatory compliance expense, litigation expense and a loss of revenue. The suppliers of data to the Company face similar burdens and, consequently, the Company may find it financially burdensome to acquire necessary data. 8. Systems interruptions and intrusions may impair the delivery of the Company’s products and services System interruptions and intrusions may impair the delivery of the Company’s products and services, resulting in a loss of customers and a corresponding loss in revenue. The Company depends heavily upon computer systems located in its data centers, including its centers in Santa Ana, California and Westlake, Texas. Certain events beyond the Company’s control, including natural disasters, telecommunications failures and intrusions into the Company’s systems by third parties could temporarily or permanently interrupt the delivery of products and services. These interruptions also may interfere with suppliers’ ability to provide necessary data and employees’ ability to attend work and perform their responsibilities. 9. The Company may not be able to realize the benefits of its offshore strategy Over the last few years the Company has reduced its costs by utilizing lower cost labor in foreign countries such as India and the Philippines. These countries are subject to relatively higher degrees of political and social instability and may lack the infrastructure to withstand natural disasters. Such disruptions can decrease efficiency and increase the Company’s costs in these countries. Weakness of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies used in these foreign countries may also reduce the savings achievable through this strategy. Furthermore, the practice of utilizing labor based in foreign countries has come under increased scrutiny in the United States and, as a result, some of the Company’s customers may require it to use labor based in the United States. The Company may not be able to pass on the increased costs of higher priced United States-based labor to its customers. 10. The Company may not be able to consummate the spin-off transaction, consummate such transaction in its originally proposed form, or realize the anticipated benefits thereof On January 15, 2008, the Company announced its intention to spin-off its financial services businesses, consisting primarily of its title insurance and specialty insurance reporting segments, into a separate public company. On July 31, 2008, the Company announced that while it continues to proceed with preparations toward 18 Table of Contents separation it would delay the consummation of the spin-off transaction until market conditions improve. The proposed transaction is highly complex. Because, among other factors, a number of the Company’s businesses are regulated and intertwined and the Company is a party to a multitude of transactions, the completion of the transaction may require significant time, effort and expense. This could lead to a distraction from the day to day operations of the Company’s business, which could adversely affect those operations. In addition, the transaction will require certain regulatory approvals and the final approval of the Company’s board of directors, and may require other third party consents, which could be withheld, or the receipt of which could require the Company to make undesirable concessions or accommodations. The landscape of the real estate and mortgage credit markets also has changed substantially since early 2008, including the dissolution or expected dissolution of certain financial institutions, the bankruptcy of a large competitor of the Company and further consolidation among the Company’s current and potential customers. Market conditions also have put pressure on the revenues, earnings and cash flows of participants in the industries in which the Company operates, including the Company. For these reasons, as well as other potential factors such as the inability to transfer assets into the entity being spun-off or unfavorable reactions from customers, ratings agencies, investors or other interested persons, the Company may not be able to consummate the spin-off transaction or may not be able to consummate the transaction in the form originally proposed. Should the transaction be consummated, factors in addition to those described above could prevent one or both of the resulting companies from being able to realize the anticipated benefits of the separation. These factors include increased borrowing costs, competition between the resulting companies, unfavorable reactions from employees, any inability of the financial services company to pay the anticipated level of dividends, the triggering of rights and obligations by the transaction or any litigation arising out of or related to the separation. 11. Product migration may result in decreased revenue Consumers of many of the Company’s real estate settlement services increasingly require these services to be delivered faster, cheaper and more efficiently. Many of the Company’s traditional products are labor and time intensive. As these consumer pressures increase, the Company may be forced to replace its traditional products with automated products that can be delivered electronically and with limited human processing. Because many of the Company’s traditional products have higher prices than its automated products, the Company’s revenues may decline. 12. Increases in the size of the Company’s customers enhance their negotiating position with respect to pricing and terms and may decrease their need for the services offered by the Company Many of the Company’s customers are increasing in size as a result of consolidation or the failure of their competitors. As a result, the Company may derive a higher percentage of its revenues from a smaller base of customers, which would enhance the ability of these customers to negotiate, where permitted by law, more favorable pricing and more favorable terms for the Company’s products and services. Moreover, these larger customers may prove more capable of performing in-house some or all of the services we provide and, consequently, their demand for the Company’s products and services may decrease. These circumstances could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and profitability. 13. Actual claims experience could materially vary from the expected claims experience that is reflected in the Company’s reserve for incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) title claims Title insurance policies are long-duration contracts with the majority of the claims reported to the Company within the first few years following the issuance of the policy. Generally, 70 to 80 percent of claim amounts become known in the first five years of the policy life, and the majority of IBNR reserves relate to the five most recent policy years. A material change in expected ultimate losses and corresponding loss rates for policy years older than five years, while possible, is not considered reasonably likely by the Company. However, changes in expected ultimate losses and corresponding loss rates for recent policy years are considered likely and could result in a material adjustment to the IBNR reserves. Based on historical experience, the Company believes that a 19 Table of Contents 50 basis point change to the loss rates for the most recent policy years, positive or negative, is reasonably likely given the long duration nature of a title insurance policy. For example, if the expected ultimate losses for each of the last five policy years increased or decreased by 50 basis points, the resulting impact on the IBNR reserve would be an increase or decrease, as the case may be, of $128.8 million. The estimates made by management in determining the appropriate level of IBNR reserves could ultimately prove to be inaccurate and actual claims experience may vary from the expected claims experience. 14. As a holding company, the Company depends on distributions from the Company’s subsidiaries, and if distributions from the Company’s subsidiaries are materially impaired, the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends may be adversely affected; in addition, insurance and other regulations may limit the amount of dividends, loans and advances available from the Company’s insurance subsidiaries First American is a holding company whose primary assets are investments in its operating subsidiaries. The Company’s ability to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of the Company’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or repay funds. If the Company’s operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends or repay funds, the Company may not be able to fulfill current parent company obligations and/or declare and pay dividends to its shareholders. Moreover, pursuant to insurance and other regulations under which the Company’s insurance subsidiaries operate, the amount of dividends, loans and advances available is limited. Under such regulations, the maximum amount of dividends, loans and advances available from the Company’s insurance subsidiaries in 2009 is $153.2 million. 15. Certain provisions of the Company’s charter may make a takeover difficult even if such takeover could be beneficial to some of the Company’s shareholders The Company’s restated articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Company’s Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Company’s board is empowered, without further shareholder action, to issue shares or series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights, including the ability to receive dividends, of the Company’s common shareholders. The issuance of such preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Although the Company has no present intention of issuing any additional shares or series of preferred stock, the Company cannot guarantee that it will not make such an issuance in the future. 16. The integration of Company acquisitions may be difficult and may result in a failure to realize some of the anticipated potential benefits of acquisitions When companies are acquired, the Company may not be able to integrate or manage these businesses so as to produce returns that justify the investment. Any difficulty in successfully integrating or managing the operations of the acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, and could lead to a failure to realize any anticipated synergies. The Company’s management also will continue to be required to dedicate substantial time and effort to the integration of its acquisitions. These efforts could divert management’s focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and operational matters. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 