Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company faces risks other than those listed here, including those that are unknown to the Company and others of which the Company may be aware but, at present, considers immaterial. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting the Company’s operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Certain recurring trends generally result in a decrease in the demand for the Company’s products Demand for the Company’s products generally decreases as the number of real estate transactions in which the Company’s products are purchased decreases. The Company has found that the number of real estate transactions in which the Company’s products are purchased decreases in the following situations: • when mortgage interest rates are high; • when the mortgage fund supply is limited; and • when the United States economy is weak. The Company believes that this trend will recur. Changes in government regulation could prohibit or limit the Company’s operations The Company’s title insurance, property and casualty insurance, home warranty, thrift, trust and investment businesses are regulated by various federal, state and local governmental agencies. Many of the Company’s other businesses operate within statutory guidelines. Changes in the applicable regulatory environment or statutory 14 Table of Contents guidelines or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or statutes could prohibit or restrict the Company’s existing or future operations. Such restrictions may restrict the Company’s ability to implement rate increases, acquire assets or businesses or otherwise have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to generate revenue and earnings. The Company may be subject to increased regulation regarding the use of personal information Certain data and services the Company provides are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Compliance with existing federal, state and local laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition to date. Nonetheless, federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States designed to protect the public from the misuse of personal information in the marketplace and adverse publicity or potential litigation concerning the commercial use of such information may affect the Company’s operations and could result in substantial regulatory compliance expense, litigation expense and a loss of revenue. The Company may not be able to pursue its acquisition strategy The Company intends to continue to grow through acquisitions. The Company may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms. A number of the Company’s competitors also have adopted the strategy of expanding and diversifying through acquisitions. The Company will continue to experience competition in its effort to execute on its acquisition strategy. As a result, the Company may be unable to continue to make acquisitions or may be forced to pay more for the acquired companies. The integration of Company acquisitions may be difficult and may result in a failure to realize some of the anticipated potential benefits of acquisitions When companies are acquired, the Company may not be able to integrate or manage these businesses so as to produce returns that justify the investment. Any difficulty in successfully integrating or managing the operations of the businesses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, and could lead to a failure to realize any anticipated synergies. The Company’s management also will be required to dedicate substantial time and effort to the integration of its acquisitions. These efforts could divert management’s focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and operational matters. The Company’s earnings may be reduced if acquisition projections are inaccurate The Company’s earnings have improved since 1991 in large part because of the Company’s acquisition and integration of non-title insurance businesses. These businesses generally have higher margins than the title insurance businesses. For example, pre-tax margins for the title insurance and services segment were 10.0% in 2005, while pre-tax margins for the segments in the Company’s information technology group in the same year were 22.2%. The success or failure of acquisitions in this group has depended in large measure upon the accuracy of the Company’s projections. These projections are not always accurate. Inaccurate projections have historically led to lower than expected earnings. As a holding company, the Company depends on distributions from the Company’s subsidiaries, and if distributions from the Company’s subsidiaries are materially impaired, the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends may be adversely affected First American is a holding company whose primary assets are the securities of its operating subsidiaries. The Company’s ability to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of the Company’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or repay funds. If the Company’s operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends or repay funds, 15 Table of Contents the Company may not be able to declare and pay dividends to its shareholders. Moreover, pursuant to insurance and other regulations under which the Company’s insurance subsidiaries operate, the amount of dividends, loans and advances available is limited. Under such regulations, the maximum amount of dividends, loans and advances available from the Company’s insurance subsidiaries in 2006 is $336.4 million. Certain provisions of the Company’s charter and rights plan may make a takeover of our company difficult even if such takeover could be beneficial to some of the Company’s shareholders The Company’s restated articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Company’s board of directors. Accordingly, the Company’s board is empowered, without further shareholder action, to issue shares or series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights, including the ability to receive dividends, of the Company’s common shareholders. The issuance of such preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. In conjunction with the rights plan discussed in the paragraph immediately below, the Company has authorized the issuance of the Company’s Series A Junior Participating Preferred Shares. Although the Company has no present intention of issuing any additional shares or series of preferred stock, the Company cannot guarantee that it will not make such an issuance in the future. The Company has adopted a rights plan which could, alone or in combination with the Company’s restated articles of incorporation, discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to the Company’s shareholders for their common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 