Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business1.We depend on our ability to access data from external sources to maintain and grow our businesses. If we are unable to access needed data from these sources or if the prices charged for these services increase, the quality, pricing and availability of our products and services may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We rely extensively upon data from a variety of external sources to maintain our proprietary and non-proprietary databases, including data from third-party suppliers, various government and public record sources and data contributed by our customers. Our data sources could cease providing or reduce the availability of their data to us, increase the price we pay for their data, or limit our use of their data for a variety of reasons, including legislatively- or judicially-imposed restrictions on use. If a number of suppliers are no longer able or are unwilling to provide us with certain data, or if our public record sources of data become unavailable or the cost becomes economically unfeasible, we may need to find alternative sources. If we are unable to identify and contract with suitable alternative data suppliers and efficiently and effectively integrate these data sources into our service offerings, we could experience service disruptions, increased costs and reduced quality of our services. Moreover, some of our suppliers compete with us in certain product offerings, which may make us vulnerable to unpredictable price increases from them. Significant price increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins and our financial position, in particular if we are unable to arrange for substitute sources of data on more favorable economic terms. Loss of such access or the availability of data in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all may reduce the quality and availability of our services and products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 2.Our customers and we are subject to various governmental regulations, and a failure to comply with government regulations or changes in these regulations could result in regulatory penalties, restrict or limit our or our customers' operations or make it more burdensome to conduct such operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.Many of our and our customers' businesses are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could restrict our ability to provide certain services or result in imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties, substantial regulatory and compliance costs, litigation expense, adverse publicity and loss of revenue. In addition, our businesses are subject to an increasing degree of compliance oversight by regulators and by our customers. Specifically, the CFPB has authority to write rules impacting the business of credit reporting agencies and also to supervise, conduct examinations of, and enforce compliance as to federal consumer financial protections laws and regulations with respect to certain “non-depository covered persons” determined by the CFPB to be “larger participants” that offer consumer financial products and services. Two of our credit businesses - CoreLogic Credco and Teletrack - are subject to the CFPB non-bank supervision program. The CFPB and the prudential financial institution regulators such as the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency also have the authority to examine us in our role as a service provider to large financial institutions, although it is yet unclear how broadly they will apply this authority going forward. In addition, several of our largest bank customers are subject to consent orders with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and/or are parties to the National Mortgage Settlement, both of which require them to exercise greater oversight and perform more rigorous audits of their key vendors such as us.These laws and regulations (as well as actions that may be taken by legislatures and regulatory bodies in the various states or in other countries) could limit our ability to pursue business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging in, impose additional costs on us, result in significant loss of revenue, impact the value of assets we hold, or otherwise significantly adversely affect our business. In addition, this increased level of scrutiny may increase our costs of compliance.Additional changes in the applicable regulatory environment or interpretations of existing regulations or statutes or enhanced governmental oversight of us or our customers could negatively affect our operations. These changes may compel us to increase our prices in certain situations or decrease our prices in other situations, may restrict our ability to implement price increases, and may limit the manner in which we conduct our business or otherwise may have a negative impact on our ability to generate revenues, earnings and cash flows. If we are unable to adapt our products and services to conform to the new laws and regulations, or if these laws and regulations have a negative impact on our customers, we may experience customer losses or increased operating costs, and our business and results of operations could be negatively affected.15Table of Contents3.Regulatory developments with respect to use of consumer data and public records could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Because our databases include certain public and non-public personal information concerning consumers, we are subject to government regulation and potential adverse publicity concerning our use of consumer data. We acquire, store, use and provide many types of consumer data and related services that already are subject to regulation under the Fair Credit Reporting Act ("FCRA"), the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ("GLBA"), and the Driver's Privacy Protection Act and, to a lesser extent, various other federal, state, and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are designed to protect the privacy of consumers and to prevent the unauthorized access and misuse of personal information in the marketplace. Our failure to comply with these laws, or any future laws or regulations of a similar nature, could result in substantial regulatory penalties, litigation expense and loss of revenue. In addition, some of our data suppliers face similar regulatory requirements and, consequently, they may cease to be able to provide data to us or may substantially increase the fees they charge us for this data which may make it financially burdensome or impossible for us to acquire data that is necessary to offer our products and services. Further, many consumer advocates, privacy advocates and government regulators believe that existing laws and regulations do not adequately protect privacy or ensure the accuracy of consumer-related data. As a result, they are seeking further restrictions on the dissemination or commercial use of personal information to the public and private sectors as well as contemplating requirements relative to data accuracy and the ability of consumers to opt to have their personal data removed from databases such as ours. For example, the Federal Trade Commission recently issued nine orders requiring data brokerage companies, including us, to provide the agency with information about how they collect and use data about consumers. Any future laws, regulations or other restrictions limiting the dissemination or use of personal information may reduce the quality and availability of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.4.If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, or if we are unable to provide adequate security in the electronic transmission of sensitive data, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are highly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to securely process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce. Security breaches of this infrastructure, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, including non-public personal information and consumer data. Unauthorized access, including through use of fraudulent schemes such as "phishing" schemes, could jeopardize the security of information stored in our systems. In addition, malware or viruses could jeopardize the security of information stored or used in a user's computer. If we are unable to prevent such security or privacy breaches, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer loss of reputation, financial loss and other regulatory penalties because of lost or misappropriated information, including sensitive consumer data.Likewise, our customers are increasingly imposing more stringent contractual obligations on us relating to our information security protections. If we are unable to maintain protections and processes at a level commensurate with that required by our large customers, it could negatively affect our relationships with those customers or increase our operating costs, which could harm our business or reputation.5.Systems interruptions may impair the delivery of our products and services, causing potential customer and revenue loss.System interruptions may impair the delivery of our products and services, resulting in a loss of customers and a corresponding loss in revenue. In August 2012, as part of our TTI, we entered into an agreement to outsource our technology infrastructure management services, including the hosting of our data centers, to Dell Marketing, L.P. ("Dell"). We depend heavily upon the computer systems located in our data centers, which we expect will be moved under the Dell arrangement to Dell's data center(s) progressively over the next couple of years. Certain events beyond our control, including natural disasters and telecommunications failures, or technical issues at Dell that are beyond our control, could interrupt the delivery of products and services. These interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers' ability to provide necessary data and our employees' ability to attend work and perform their responsibilities, or may cause a loss of customers or a loss in revenue.6.Because our revenue from customers in the mortgage, consumer lending and real estate industries is affected by the strength of the economy and the housing market generally, including the volume of real estate transactions, a 16Table of Contentsnegative change in any of these conditions could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.A significant portion of our revenue is generated from solutions we provide to the mortgage, consumer lending and real estate industries and, as a result, a weak economy or housing market may adversely affect our business. The volume of mortgage origination and residential real estate transactions is highly variable. Reductions in these transaction volumes could have a direct impact on certain portions of our revenues and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, declines in the level of loans seriously delinquent (loans delinquent 90 days or more) or loans in foreclosure and delays in the default cycle may negatively affect the demand for many of our products and services in our asset management and processing solutions segment. Moreover, negative economic conditions have had an impact on, and continue to impact the performance and financial condition of, some of our customers in many of our businesses, which may lead to negative impacts on our revenue, earnings and liquidity in particular if these customers go bankrupt or otherwise exit certain businesses.7.We do not solely control the operations and dividend policies of our partially-owned affiliates, including our National Joint Ventures. A decrease in earnings of or dividends from these joint ventures could have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flow.In our National Joint Ventures with some of our largest customers, we share control of the management of the operations of the joint venture with the other partner. As a result, we cannot solely dictate the business strategy, operations or dividend policies of these joint ventures without the cooperation of the respective partners. Our National Joint Ventures are impacted by many of the same regulatory and economic factors that affect our business. A decrease in earnings and dividends derived from these joint ventures could have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flow, and we may not have the ability to prevent such a decrease. In addition, our joint venture partners could decide to exit the joint venture or otherwise terminate the operations at their discretion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.8.We rely on our top customers for a significant portion of our revenue and profit, which makes us susceptible to the same macro-economic and regulatory factors that our customers face. If these customers are negatively impacted by current economic or regulatory conditions or otherwise experience financial hardship or stress, or if the terms of our relationships with these customers change, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The ten largest U.S. mortgage originators generated 42.6% of our 2012 operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, and one customer, Wells Fargo, N.A., accounted for 10.8% of our 2012 operating revenues. These customers face continued pressure in the current economic and regulatory climate. Many of our relationships with these customers are long-standing and are important to our future operating results, but there is no guarantee that we will be able to retain or renew existing agreements or maintain our relationships on acceptable terms or at all. Deterioration in or termination of any of these relationships could significantly reduce our revenue and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.9.We rely upon proprietary technology and information rights, and if we are unable to protect our rights, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.Our success depends, in part, upon our intellectual property rights. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and trademark laws and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution to protect our proprietary technology and information. This protection is limited, and our intellectual property could be used by others without our consent. In addition, patents may not be issued with respect to our pending or future patent applications, and our patents may not be upheld as valid or may not prevent the development of competitive products. Any infringement, disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our competitive position, and ultimately, our business. Moreover, litigation may be necessary to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could be time-consuming, result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.10.If our products or services are found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties.As we continue to develop and expand our products and services, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims from third parties such as non-practicing entities, software providers or suppliers of data. Likewise, if we are unable to 17Table of Contentsmaintain adequate controls over how third-party software and data are used we may be subject to claims of infringement. Any claims, whether with or without merit, could:•be expensive and time-consuming to defend;•cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;•require us to redesign our applications, if feasible;•divert management's attention and resources; and•require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies.11.The acquisition and integration or divestiture of businesses by us may involve increased expenses, and may not produce the desired financial or operating results contemplated at the time of the transaction.We have acquired and expect to continue to acquire, on an opportunistic basis, companies, businesses, products and services. We also evaluate strategic divestitures from time to time. These activities may increase our expenses, and the expected benefits, synergies and growth from these initiatives may not materialize as planned. In addition, we may have difficulty integrating our completed or any future acquisitions into our operations. If we fail to properly integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies and personnel, it could impair relationships with employees, customers and strategic partners, distract management attention, result in control failures and otherwise disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. We also may not be able to retain key management and other critical employees after an acquisition. In addition, although part of our business strategy may include growth through strategic acquisitions, and we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, obtain the capital necessary to pursue acquisitions or complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms. 12. Our reliance on outsourcing arrangements subjects us to risk and may disrupt or adversely affect our operations. In addition, we may not realize the full benefit of our outsourcing arrangements, which may result in increased costs, or may adversely affect our service levels for our customers.Over the last few years, we have outsourced various business process and information technology services to third parties, including the outsourcing arrangements we entered into with a subsidiary of Cognizant Technology Solutions and the technology infrastructure management services agreement we entered into with Dell. Although we have service-level arrangements with our providers, we do not ultimately control their performance, which may make our operations vulnerable to their performance failures. In addition, the failure to adequately monitor and regulate the performance of our third-party vendors could subject us to additional risk. Reliance on third parties also makes us vulnerable to changes in the vendors' business, financial condition and other matters outside of our control, including their violations of laws or regulations which could increase our exposure to liability or otherwise increase the costs associated with the operation of our business. The failure of our outsourcing partners to perform as expected or as contractually required could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations, and to the services we provide to our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, customer relationships, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Furthermore, some of our outsourced services are being performed offshore, which could expose us to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. Our customers may object to the outsourcing and/or offshoring of services we provide for them, which may require us to perform such services directly and/or onshore at a higher cost or our customer may cease doing business with us.Our outsourcing arrangement with Cognizant Technology Solutions subjects us to a remaining net cumulative minimum commitment of approximately $277.6 million, plus applicable inflation adjustments, over the remaining minimum commitment term through 2016, which we are required to pay regardless of the actual value of the services it provides. This minimum commitment could negatively affect our cost structure and our ability to divest operations which utilize services under this outsourcing agreement.13.Our international outsourcing service providers and our own international operations subject us to additional risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Dependence on these operations, in particular our outsourcing arrangements, may impair our ability to operate effectively. Over the last few years, we have reduced our costs by utilizing lower cost labor outside the U.S. in countries such as India and the Philippines, primarily through outsourcing arrangements. These countries are subject to relatively higher degrees of political and social instability than the U.S. and may lack the infrastructure to withstand political unrest or natural disasters. Such disruptions can impact our ability to deliver our products and services on a timely basis, if at all, and to a lesser extent can 18Table of Contentsdecrease efficiency and increase our costs. Weakness of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies used and higher inflation rates experienced in these countries may also reduce the savings we planned to achieve. Furthermore, the practice of utilizing labor based in foreign countries has come under increased scrutiny in the United States and, as a result, many of our customers may require us to use labor based in the U.S. We may not be able to pass on the increased costs of higher-priced U.S.-based labor to our customers, which ultimately could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the foreign countries in which we have outsourcing arrangements or operate could adopt new legislation or regulations that would adversely affect our business by making it difficult, more costly or impossible for us to continue our foreign activities as currently being conducted. In addition, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"). Any violations of FCPA or local anti-corruption laws by us, our subsidiaries or our local agents, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation and result in substantial financial penalties or other sanctions.14.Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from complying with our covenants and obligations under our outstanding debt instruments. In addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness subject us to various restrictions that could limit our operating flexibility.As of December 31, 2012, our total debt was approximately $792.4 million, and we have unused commitments of approximately $500.0 million under our credit facilities. Subject to the limitations contained in the credit agreement governing our credit facilities, the indenture governing the 7.25% senior notes and our other debt instruments, we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other general corporate purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our level of debt could intensify. The indenture governing the notes and the credit agreement governing our credit facilities each impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities. These restrictions include the financial covenants in our credit facilities which require on-going compliance with certain financial tests and ratios, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio. The operating and financial restrictions in the indenture or the credit agreement could limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things:•create, incur or assume additional debt;•create, incur or assume certain liens;•redeem and/or prepay certain subordinated debt we might issue in the future;•pay dividends on our stock or repurchase stock;•make certain investments and acquisitions, including joint ventures;•enter into or permit to exist contractual limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us;•enter into new lines of business;•engage in consolidations, mergers and acquisitions;•engage in specified sales of assets; and•enter into transactions with affiliates.These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could impact our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us. Our failure to comply with these restrictions could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all our debt. 15. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt instruments, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of the notes or the lenders under our credit facilities could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, and the lenders under our credit facilities could terminate their 19Table of Contentsrevolving commitments to loan money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.16. We operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. We compete for existing and new customers against both third parties and the in-house capabilities of our customers. Some of our competitors, such as the credit bureaus, have substantial resources. Some have widely-used technology platforms that they seek to use as a competitive advantage to drive sales of other products and services. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. These competitors and new technologies may render our existing technology obsolete, resulting in operating inefficiencies and increased competitive pressure. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.17.We may not be able to attract and retain qualified management or develop current management to keep pace with company growth, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain or increase our product and service offerings.We rely on skilled management and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of such individuals. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. We compete for talented individuals not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies, and there is a limited pool of individuals who have the skills and training needed to grow our company, especially in the increasingly-regulated environment in which we operate. Increased attrition or competition for qualified management could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and product offerings, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs.18.We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions and an impairment of these investments would require a write-down that would reduce our net income.In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, existing goodwill is not amortized but instead is required to be assessed for impairment annually or sooner if circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill include significant under-performance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization and negative industry or economic trends. In the event that the book value of goodwill is impaired, any such impairment would be charged to earnings in the period of impairment. In the event of significant volatility in the capital markets or a worsening of current economic conditions, we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Possible future impairment of goodwill under accounting guidance may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.19. We may not be able to effectively achieve our growth or cost-containment strategies, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.Our growth and cost-containment strategies include revenue growth and margin expansion, strategic outsourcing such as our TTI, streamlining functions and improving overall processes. Although we have implemented many of these plans, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful at implementing all of our growth strategies within the timetable we have indicated, if at all. In addition, we may not be able to realize all of the projected benefits of our cost-containment strategies, and these efforts could impair our ability to attract and retain resources or prohibit us from being able to execute effectively and efficiently on our growth plans.Risks Relating to the Separation of FAFC1.We are responsible for a portion of FAFC's contingent and other corporate liabilities.Under the Separation and Distribution Agreement we entered into with FAFC and related agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement, we and FAFC are each responsible for 50% of certain of FAC's contingent and other corporate liabilities. External costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities are shared equally. These contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to any third party claims related to the Separation or the Distribution. Contingent and other corporate liabilities that relate only to the information 20Table of Contentssolutions business were generally allocated to us and those that relate only to the financial services business were generally allocated to FAFC.If FAFC were to default on a payment obligation related to these liabilities, we may be required to pay the amount in default. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of the agreed-upon share of the contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated expenses.2.We share responsibility with FAFC for certain income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the date of the Distribution.Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we are generally responsible for taxes attributable to members of the information solutions group of companies or the assets, liabilities or businesses of the information group of companies and FAFC is generally responsible for all taxes attributable to members of the FAFC group of companies or the assets, liabilities or businesses of the FAFC group of companies. Generally, any liabilities arising from adjustments to prior year (or partial year with respect to 2010) consolidated tax returns will be shared in proportion to each company's percentage of the tax liability for the relevant year (or partial year with respect to 2010), unless the adjustment is attributable to either party, in which case the adjustment will generally be for the account of such party. In addition to this potential liability associated with adjustments for prior periods, if FAFC were to fail to pay any tax liability it is required to pay under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of tax liabilities.3.If the Distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the Separation are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and FAFC will incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In connection with the Separation we received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the Separation will qualify for favorable treatment under the Code, and the contribution by us of certain assets of the financial services businesses to FAFC and the pro-rata distribution to our shareholders of the common stock of FAFC will, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. In addition, we received opinions of tax counsel to similar effect. The ruling and opinions relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us and FAFC regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, we and our stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the Separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings were not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions that were not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of us or FAFC after the Separation. If the Separation is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.In addition, under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the Distribution were determined to be taxable and such determination were the result of actions taken after the Distribution by us or FAFC, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us or FAFC as a result thereof.Moreover, the Tax Sharing Agreement generally provides that each party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on the other party as a result of the failure of the distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction under the Code if such failure is attributable to post-Distribution actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its stockholders, regardless of when the actions occur after the Distribution, the other party consents to such actions or such party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion of tax counsel as described above. For example, we would be responsible for a third party's acquisition of us at a time and in a manner that would cause a failure of the Distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction under the Code. These restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our stockholders.4.In connection with the Separation, we entered into a number of agreements with FAFC setting forth rights and obligations of the parties post Separation. In addition, certain provisions of these agreements provide protection to FAFC in the event of a change of control of us, which could reduce the likelihood of a potential change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable.21Table of ContentsIn connection with the Separation, we and FAFC entered into a number of agreements that set forth certain rights and obligations of the parties post-Separation, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Tax Sharing Agreement, the Restrictive Covenants Agreement, certain transition services agreements and leases for our data center and former headquarters facilities in Santa Ana. We possess certain rights under those agreements, including without limitation indemnity rights from certain liabilities allocated to FAFC. The failure of FAFC to perform its obligations under the agreements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.In addition, the Separation and Distribution Agreement gives FAFC the right to purchase the equity or assets of our entity or entities directly or indirectly owning the real property databases that we currently own upon the occurrence of certain triggering events. The triggering events include the direct or indirect purchase of the databases by a title insurance underwriter (or its affiliate) or an entity licensed as a title insurance underwriter, including a transaction where a title insurance underwriter (or its affiliate) acquires 25% or more of us. Such a triggering event also triggers the ability of FAFC to terminate our data center upon 30 days notice. The purchase right expires June 1, 2020. Until the expiration of the purchase right, this provision could have the effect of limiting or discouraging an acquisition of us or preventing a change of control that our stockholders might consider favorable. Likewise, if a triggering event occurs, the loss of ownership of our real property database and our need to move our data center very abruptly could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and results of operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.