ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Trustmark and its subsidiaries could be adversely impacted by various risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict. As a financial institution, Trustmark has significant exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. This section includes a description of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified by Management that could materially affect Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of Trustmark’s financial instruments in general, and Trustmark common stock, in particular. Additional risks and uncertainties that Management currently deems immaterial or is unaware of may also impair Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by the risk factors that are identified below. The occurrence of any one of, or of a combination of, these risk factors could have a material negative effect on Trustmark’s financial condition or results of operations. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Trustmark’s largest source of revenue (net interest income) is subject to interest rate risk. Trustmark is exposed to interest rate risk in its core banking activities of lending and deposit taking, since assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Trustmark’s total interest income was $392.0 million while net interest income was approximately $348.9 million. Although total interest income and net interest income were lower when compared with 2010, the impact of interest rate risk actually improved as Trustmark was able to secure more core deposits as a less sensitive funding source during the year. Financial simulation models are the primary tools used by Trustmark to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of scenarios, Management is provided with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Trustmark’s balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve and the changing composition of Trustmark’s balance sheet, resulting from both strategic plans and customer behavior. In addition, the model incorporates Management’s assumptions and expectations regarding such factors as loan and deposit growth, pricing, prepayment speeds and spreads between interest rates. Trustmark’s simulation model using balances at December 31, 2011 estimated that in the event of a 200 basis point increase in interest rates, there would be a reduction in net interest income of 1.8%. Net interest income is Trustmark’s largest revenue source, and it is important to discuss how Trustmark's interest rate risk may be influenced by the various factors shown below: · In general, for a given change in interest rates, the amount of the change in value (positive or negative) is larger for assets and liabilities with longer remaining maturities. The shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields, funding costs and investment income differently. · The remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as payment behavior changes in response to changes in interest rates. For example, if interest rates decline sharply, loans may pre-pay, or pay down, faster than anticipated, thus reducing future cash flows and interest income. Conversely, if interest rates increase, depositors may cash in their certificates of deposit prior to term (notwithstanding any applicable early withdrawal penalties) or otherwise reduce their deposits to pursue higher yielding investment alternatives. · Repricing frequencies and maturity profiles for assets and liabilities may occur at different times. For example, in a falling rate environment, if assets reprice faster than liabilities, there will be an initial decline in earnings. Moreover, if assets and liabilities reprice at the same time, they may not be by the same increment. For instance, if the Federal funds rate increased 50 basis points, rates on demand deposits may rise by 10 basis points, whereas rates on prime-based loans will instantly rise 50 basis points. Financial instruments do not respond in a parallel fashion to rising or falling interest rates. This causes asymmetry in the magnitude of changes in net interest income, net economic value and investment income resulting from the hypothetical increases and decreases in interest rates. Therefore, Management monitors interest rate risk and adjusts Trustmark’s funding strategies to mitigate adverse effects of interest rate shifts on Trustmark’s balance sheet. Trustmark utilizes derivative contracts to hedge Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSR) in order to offset changes in fair value resulting from rapidly changing interest rate environments. In spite of Trustmark’s due diligence in regard to these hedging strategies, significant risks are involved that, if realized, may prove such strategies to be ineffective, which could adversely affect results of operations. Risks associated with these strategies include the risk that counterparties in any such derivative and other hedging transactions may not perform; the risk that these hedging strategies rely on Management’s assumptions and projections regarding these assets and general market factors, including prepayment risk, basis risk, market volatility and changes in the shape of the yield curve, and that these assumptions and projections may prove to be incorrect; the risk that these hedging strategies do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other forecasted inputs to the hedging model; and the risk that the models used to forecast the effectiveness of hedging instruments may project expectations that differ from actual results. In addition, increased regulation of the over-the-counter derivative markets may increase the cost to Trustmark to implement and maintain an effective MSR hedging strategy. Trustmark closely monitors the sensitivity of net interest income and investment income to changes in interest rates and attempts to limit the variability of net interest income as interest rates change. Trustmark makes use of both on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS The U.S. economic recovery is showing early signs of stabilizing, however, challenges surrounding the U.S. fiscal policy, the European debt crisis, and geopolitical risks could negatively impact the U.S. economic recovery, which could increase business risks for Trustmark. Economic growth nearly stalled during the first half of 2011 due to several major global developments, including surging oil prices, supply-chain disruptions resulting from the Japanese tsunami and earthquakes, and the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis. However, economic performance gained momentum during the last half of 2011, and the U.S. economy is expected to continue on a course of moderate growth with relatively low inflation in 2012. The unemployment rate for December 2011 was 8.5% and is expected to remain relatively stable in 2012. While consumer confidence is expected to remain low, consumer spending is expected to continue the growth seen in the fourth quarter of 2011. The housing market continued to show signs of improvement throughout 2011 as housing price declines showed signs of easing nationwide and housing starts and sales climbed upward. However, risks remain that foreclosures could again increase. Historically low interest rates and strengthening credit for both consumers and businesses is expected to gradually reduce delinquencies and increase consumer and business loan demand during 2012. Despite signs of improvement in the U.S. economy, the economic recovery continues to progress slowly. Trustmark does not assume that the difficult conditions in the economy and in the financial markets will improve significantly in the near future. The concern now exists that the future of the recovery could be at risk because the economic backdrop is uncertain and unstable. Several significant downside risks to the U.S. economy exist, including the European debt crisis, challenges surrounding the U.S. fiscal policy, and geopolitical risks. Europe is expected to experience a mild recession during 2012, which should not dramatically impact the U.S. economy unless the European financial crisis becomes much more severe. Trustmark has no direct or indirect exposure to any debt of European sovereign and non-sovereign issuers. However, Trustmark could be exposed to various market risks as U.S. markets react to the escalation of the European financial crisis as part of the global economy. Record levels of monetary and fiscal stimulus in the United States in 2009 and 2010 failed to produce the expected level of economic growth. Significant fiscal tightening is expected in 2012, as the expiration of the payroll tax holiday and unemployment benefits programs, which Congress extended for two months at the end of 2011, as well as the expiration of the Bush-era tax cuts could result in a drag on income. Risks that the U.S. sovereign debt rating could be further downgraded also remain as no credible plans to address the U.S. deficit have been developed. The national presidential election will also affect additional policy actions taken throughout 2012. These risks could negatively impact the U.S. economic recovery, or force the economy back into recession. A further weakened economy could affect Trustmark in a variety of substantial and unpredictable ways, including affecting its borrowers’ ability to meet their repayment obligations. It is difficult to predict the extent to which these challenging economic conditions will persist as well as the possibility that progress in the economic recovery will instead shift to the potential for further decline. If the economy does weaken in the future, it is uncertain how Trustmark’s business would be affected and whether Trustmark would be able successfully to mitigate any such effects on its business. Accordingly, these factors in the U.S. economy could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. The economic recession has had adverse effects on Trustmark’s business and these effects could increase in severity and heighten risks for Trustmark in key areas of its business. In addition to the general potential risks to Trustmark posed by the uncertainty of the progress of the economy, noted above, specific issues in the housing market over the past year have negatively affected Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations, and could continue to do so. As noted above, economic indicators showed improvement in the U.S. economy during the last half of 2011. Declines in the national unemployment rate, increased consumer spending, and improved capital expenditures from businesses indicate that the U.S. economy is seeing gradual improvements that are expected to continue in 2012. Declines in housing prices showed signs of easing nationwide in 2011, but not in all geographic areas. While improvements were seen in 2011, the unemployment rate remains high and the housing market remains at depressed levels. These factors continue to add uncertainty to the economic outlook and negatively impact the credit performance of loans in affected markets. Economic conditions and negative credit performance have resulted in writedowns of asset values by financial institutions, including Trustmark, during this recession period. Trustmark’s strategic focus to reduce exposure to construction and land development lending as well as successful efforts to manage problem assets resulted in significant improvements in credit quality during 2011. While improvements were seen in economic conditions during 2011, the economic outlook remains uncertain and risks remain that could negatively impact progress in the economy. As noted above, Trustmark does not assume that the difficult conditions in the economy and in the financial markets will improve significantly in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on Trustmark. In particular, Trustmark may face the following risks in connection with these events: 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS · Market developments and the resulting economic pressure on consumers may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause increases in delinquencies and default rates, which, among other effects, could further affect Trustmark’s charge-offs and provision for loan losses. · Conditions in Trustmark’s markets in Mississippi, Tennessee or Texas, which to date have been less severe than in Trustmark’s Florida market, could worsen. · Competition in the industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. · The market disruptions have made valuation of assets even more difficult and subjective, and Management’s ability to measure the fair value of Trustmark’s assets could be adversely affected. If Management determines that a significant portion of its assets have values that are significantly below their recorded carrying value, Trustmark could recognize a material charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination was made, Trustmark’s capital ratios would be adversely affected by any such change, and a rating agency might downgrade Trustmark’s credit rating or put Trustmark on credit watch. Trustmark is subject to lending risk, which could impact the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and results of operations. There are inherent risks associated with Trustmark’s lending activities. As discussed above, the recent economic recession resulted in increases in Trustmark’s loan losses and impaired loans. While the housing and real estate markets have improved, they remain at depressed levels. If trends in the housing and real estate markets were to revert or further decline below recession levels, Trustmark may experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, if the U.S. economy returns to a recessionary state, Management expects that it could severely affect economic conditions in Trustmark’s market areas and that Trustmark could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review Trustmark’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of Management. As a result, Trustmark may elect to make further increases in its provision for loan losses in the future, particularly if economic conditions deteriorate. Trustmark is subject to liquidity risk, which could disrupt its ability to meet its financial obligations. Liquidity refers to Trustmark’s ability to ensure that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demand for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs and other corporate purposes. Liquidity risk arises whenever the maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities differ. Trustmark obtains funding through deposits and various short-term and long-term wholesale borrowings, including federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, brokered deposits, the Federal Reserve Discount Window and Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances. Any significant restriction or disruption of Trustmark’s ability to obtain funding from these or other sources could have a negative effect on Trustmark’s ability to satisfy its current and future financial obligations, which could materially affect Trustmark’s financial condition. In addition to the risk that one or more of the funding sources may become constrained due to market conditions unrelated to Trustmark, there is the risk that Trustmark’s credit profile may decline such that one or more of these funding sources becomes partially or wholly unavailable to Trustmark. Trustmark attempts to quantify such credit event risk by modeling bank specific and systemic scenarios that estimate the liquidity impact. Trustmark estimates such impact by attempting to measure the effect on available unsecured lines of credit, available capacity from secured borrowing sources and securitizable assets. To mitigate such risk, Trustmark maintains available lines of credit with the FRB and the FHLB that are secured by loans and investment securities. Management continuously monitors Trustmark’s liquidity position for compliance with internal policies. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely affect the value of Trustmark’s investments. Trustmark maintains an investment portfolio that includes, among other asset classes, obligations of states and municipalities, agency debt securities and agency mortgage-related securities. The market value of investments in Trustmark’s investment portfolio may be affected by factors other than interest rates or the underlying performance of the issuer of the securities, such as ratings downgrades, adverse changes in the business climate and a lack of pricing information or liquidity in the secondary market for certain investment securities. In addition, government involvement or intervention in the financial markets or the lack thereof or market perceptions regarding the existence or absence of such activities could affect the market and the market prices for these securities, such as the conservatorship of FNMA and FHLMC. On a quarterly basis, Trustmark evaluates investments and other assets for impairment indicators. As of December 31, 2011, total gross unrealized losses on temporarily impaired securities totaled $191 thousand. Trustmark may be required to record impairment charges if these investments suffer a decline in value that is other-than-temporary. If it is determined that a significant impairment has occurred, Trustmark would be required to charge against earnings the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations in the period in which a write-off, if any, occurs. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Dodd-Frank Act and other legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to the financial services industry could materially affect Trustmark’s results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or the market price of Trustmark’s Common Stock. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which significantly reforms the regulatory structure relating to the financial services industry. The legislation, among other things, establishes a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which will have broad authority to regulate providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services; narrows the scope of federal preemption of state consumer finance laws relating to national banks and operating subsidiaries of national banks, and may expand the authority of state attorneys general to bring actions against national banks to enforce federal consumer protection legislation; more comprehensively regulates the over-the-counter derivatives market, including providing for more strict capital and margin requirements and central clearing of certain standardized over-the-counter derivatives; strengthens restrictions on lending limits and transactions with affiliates imposed by the National Bank Act; and restricts the interchange fees payable on electronic debit card transactions. Much of the legislative import of the Dodd-Frank Act is delegated to a variety of federal regulatory agencies, which are required to enact rules to implement various statutory mandates in the Act. As the Dodd-Frank Act continues to turn into specific regulatory requirements, there will be further business impacts across a myriad of industries, not just banking. Some of those impacts are readily anticipated, such as the change to interchange fees, which is described in the State Laws and Other Federal Oversight section in Item 1 – Business of this document. However, other impacts are more difficult to predict and quantify at this time. For example, provisions that affect deposit insurance assessments and payment of interest on demand deposits could increase the costs associated with deposits as well as place limitations on certain revenues those deposits may generate. Finally, because many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years, it is difficult to anticipate the potential impact on Trustmark and its customers. It is clear, however, that the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will require Management to invest significant time and resources to evaluate the potential impact of this Act. Management will continue to evaluate this impact as more details regarding the implementation of these provisions become available. In addition, in September 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision announced that its participants had agreed to new international minimum capital standards for banks. The new agreement, known as Basel III, increases the required minimum capital requirements for banks. Under Basel III, these requirements will be phased in over an eight year period, subject to rulemaking by the relevant local jurisdiction. Federal banking regulators have not yet determined how to implement Basel III in the United States, or the timeframe for implementation. As a result, Management cannot determine the implementation date or the final capital impact Basel III will have on Trustmark. The Dodd-Frank Act, as implemented by the regulations currently being promulgated by various federal regulatory agencies, along with other regulatory initiatives relating to the financial services industry, could materially affect Trustmark’s results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or the market price of Trustmark’s common stock. Management is unable to completely evaluate these potential effects at this time. It is also possible that these measures could adversely affect the creditworthiness of counterparties, which could increase Trustmark’s risk profile. Trustmark operates in a highly competitive financial services industry. Trustmark faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national and regional banks, as well as community banks within the various markets in which Trustmark operates. At this time, major international banks do not compete directly with Trustmark in its markets, although they may do so in the future. Trustmark also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Some of Trustmark’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many of Trustmark’s larger competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than Trustmark. Trustmark’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; the ability to continue to expand Trustmark’s market position through organic growth and acquisitions; the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; the rate at which Trustmark introduces new products and services relative to its competitors; and industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken Trustmark’s competitive position, which could adversely affect Trustmark’s growth and profitability. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS The stock price of financial institutions, like Trustmark, can be volatile. The volatility in the stock prices of companies in the financial services industry may make it more difficult for shareholders to resell Trustmark common stock at attractive prices in a timely manner. Trustmark’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including factors affecting the financial industry as a whole. Trustmark’s stock price in 2011 was subjected to increased volatility, reflecting the volatility faced by the financial markets in general. Since January 1, 2011, Trustmark’s stock reached a high of $26.14 per share on January 18, 2011, and a low of $17.06 per share on October 4, 2011. The factors affecting financial stocks generally and Trustmark’s stock price in particular include: · actual or anticipated variations in earnings; · changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; · operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers; · perception in the marketplace regarding Trustmark, its competitors and/or the industry as a whole; · significant acquisitions or business combinations involving Trustmark or its competitors; · changes in government regulation; · failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; and · volatility affecting the financial markets in general. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions could also cause Trustmark’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. Potential acquisitions by Trustmark may disrupt Trustmark’s business and dilute shareholder value. Trustmark seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services, and Trustmark will likely continue to seek to acquire such businesses in the future. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; potential disruption to Trustmark’s business; potential diversion of Trustmark’s Management’s time and attention; the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; difficulty in estimating the value of the target company and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. Acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of Trustmark’s tangible book value and net income per share of common stock may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue projections, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards may affect how Trustmark reports its financial condition and results of operations. Trustmark’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how Trustmark records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Trustmark’s financial statements. The ongoing economic recession has resulted in increased scrutiny of accounting standards by regulators and legislators, particularly as they relate to fair value accounting principles. In addition, ongoing efforts to achieve convergence between U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards may result in changes to U.S. GAAP. Any such changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how Trustmark records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. Trustmark is exposed to operational, reputational and regulatory risk and must utilize new technologies to deliver its products and services. As is customary in the banking industry, Trustmark is dependent upon automated and non-automated systems to record and process our transaction volume. This poses the risk that technical system flaws, employee errors or tampering or manipulation of those systems by employees, customers or outsiders will result in losses. Any such losses, which may be difficult to detect, could adversely affect Trustmark’s financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the occurrence of such a loss could expose Trustmark to reputational risk, the loss of customer business, additional regulatory scrutiny or civil litigation and possible financial liability. Trustmark may also be subject to disruptions of operating systems arising from events that are beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). Trustmark is further exposed to the risk that third party service providers may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors as Trustmark). These disruptions may interfere with service to customers and result in a financial loss or liability that could adversely affect Trustmark’s financial condition or results of operations. In order to deliver new products and services and to improve the productivity of existing products and services, the banking industry relies on rapidly evolving technologies. Trustmark’s ability to effectively utilize new technologies to address customer needs and create operating efficiencies could materially affect future prospects. Management can not provide any assurances that Trustmark will be successful in utilizing such new technologies. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, could have a significant negative impact on Trustmark’s business. Many of Trustmark’s loans are secured by property or are made to businesses in or near the Gulf Coast regions of Texas, Mississippi and Florida which are often in the path of seasonal hurricanes. As reported in previous filings, Hurricane Katrina had a catastrophic effect on Trustmark’s Mississippi market, and in late summer 2008, Hurricane Gustav threatened to create a similar result in the Houston metropolitan area, which is the location of Trustmark’s Texas operations. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, could have a significant negative impact on the stability of Trustmark’s deposit base, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing loans, and could cause Trustmark to incur material additional expenses. Although Management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of a natural disaster, especially if any applicable insurance coverage is not adequate to enable Trustmark’s borrowers to recover from the effects of the event, could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 