ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Trustmark and its subsidiaries could be adversely impacted by various risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict. As a financial institution, Trustmark has significant exposure to market risk, including interest-rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk, among others. This section includes a description of certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified by Management that are difficult to predict and that could materially affect Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of Trustmark’s financial instruments in general, and Trustmark common stock, in particular. Additional risks and uncertainties that Management currently deems immaterial or is unaware of may also impair Trustmark’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Trustmark is Subject to Interest Rate Risk Trustmark is exposed to interest rate risk in its core banking activities of lending and deposit taking since assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change. As a result, net interest income, which represents the largest revenue source for Trustmark, is subject to the effects of changing interest rates. Trustmark closely monitors the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in interest rates and attempts to limit the variability of net interest income as interest rates change. Trustmark makes use of both on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk. Possible actions to mitigate such risk include, but are not limited to, changes in the pricing of loan and deposit products, modifying the composition of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and adding to, modifying or terminating interest rate swap agreements or other financial instruments used for interest rate risk management purposes. Trustmark has entered into derivative contracts to hedge our Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSR) in order to offset changes in fair value resulting from rapidly changing interest rate environments. In spite of Trustmark’s due diligence in regards to these hedging strategies, significant risk are involved that, if realized, may prove our strategies to be ineffective and our results of operations adversely impacted. Risks associated with this strategy include the risk that our hedging strategies are susceptible to prepayment risk, basis risk, market volatility and changes in the shape of the yield curve; the risk that our hedging strategies rely on our assumptions and projections regarding these assets and general market factors and that assumptions may prove to be incorrect; the risk that our hedging strategies do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds; the risk that the valuation of MSR based on certain circumstances and assumptions will not be realized due to differences in forecasted inputs within the model and the actual results and the risk that the models used to forecast hedge instruments may project expectations that differ from actual results. Trustmark is Subject to Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with Trustmark’s lending activities. The risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in the economic conditions in the markets where Trustmark operates as well as those across the United States. Weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of collateral securing these loans. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 53% of Trustmark’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial: construction, land development and other land loans; and loans secured by nonfarm, nonresidential properties. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate and consumer loans. Because Trustmark’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss in earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. To help manage credit risk, Trustmark maintains a detailed credit policy and utilizes various committees that include members of senior management to approve significant extensions of credit. Trustmark also maintains a credit review department that regularly reviews Trustmark’s loan portfolios to ensure compliance with established credit policy. Trustmark maintains an allowance for credit losses that in Management’s judgment is adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio. Trustmark’s Allowance for Loan Losses May Not Be Adequate to Cover Credit Losses The allowance for loan losses is established through provisions for estimated loan losses charged against earnings. The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate by management, based on estimated probable losses within the existing loan portfolio. This evaluation is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates, including the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans that may be susceptible to significant change. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of Trustmark’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review Trustmark’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of Management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, Trustmark will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, stockholders’ equity, and may have a material adverse affect on Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. Table of Contents Trustmark is Subject to Liquidity Risk Liquidity refers to Trustmark’s ability to ensure that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demands for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs, and for other corporate purposes. Liquidity risk arises whenever the maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities differ. Trustmark obtains funding through deposits and various short-term and long-term wholesale borrowings, including federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, brokered certificates of deposit and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank. Should Trustmark experience a substantial deterioration in its financial condition or its debt ratings, or should the availability of funding become restricted due to disruption in the financial markets, Trustmark’s ability to obtain funding from these or other sources could be negatively impacted. Trustmark attempts to quantify such credit-event risk by modeling scenarios that estimate the liquidity impact resulting from a short-term ratings downgrade over various grading levels. Trustmark estimates such impact by attempting to measure the effect on available unsecured lines of credit, available capacity from secured borrowing sources and securitizable assets. To mitigate such risk, Trustmark maintains available lines of credit with the Federal Reserve Bank and the Federal Home Loan Bank that are secured by loans and investment securities. Management continuously monitors Trustmark’s liquidity position for compliance with internal policies and believes that available sources of liquidity are adequate to meet funding needs in the normal course of business. Trustmark Operates In A Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area Trustmark faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets Trustmark operates. Additionally, various out-of-state banks have entered or have announced plans to enter the market areas in which Trustmark currently operates. Trustmark also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of Trustmark’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than Trustmark can. Trustmark’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; the ability to expand Trustmark’s market position; the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; the rate at which Trustmark introduces new products and services relative to its competitors; customer satisfaction with Trustmark’s level of service and industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken Trustmark’s competitive position, which could adversely affect Trustmark’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. Trustmark is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision Trustmark is subject to extensive state and federal laws and regulations governing the banking industry, in particular, and public companies, in general. Many of those laws and regulations are described in Part I, Item 1 “Business.” Changes in those laws and regulations, or the degree of Trustmark’s compliance with those laws and regulations as judged by any of several regulators that oversee Trustmark, could have a significant effect on Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. Table of Contents Trustmark’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates Trustmark’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of Trustmark’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. Potential Acquisitions May Disrupt Trustmark’s Business and Dilute Stockholder Value Trustmark seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; potential disruption to Trustmark’s business; potential diversion of Trustmark’s Management’s time and attention; the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; difficulty in estimating the value of the target company and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of Trustmark’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. Trustmark Continually Encounters Technological Change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Trustmark’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in Trustmark’s operations. Many of Trustmark’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Trustmark may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. Trustmark is Subject to Claims and Litigation Trustmark and its subsidiaries are parties to lawsuits and other claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. Some of these lawsuits assert claims related to the lending, collection, servicing, investment, trust and other business activities, and some of the lawsuits allege substantial claims for damages. Whether these claims are founded or unfounded, if such claims are not resolved in a manner favorable to Trustmark they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of Trustmark and its banking, wealth management and insurance products and services as well as impact customer demand for these products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s business, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. Natural Disasters, Acts of War or Terrorism Could Significantly Impact Trustmark’s Business Natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could have a significant impact on Trustmark’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of Trustmark’s deposit base, impair of ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause Trustmark to incur additional expenses. For example, during 2005, Hurricane Katrina made landfall and subsequently caused extensive flooding and destruction along the Mississippi Gulf Coast as well as central and eastern Mississippi. Operations in several of the communities where Trustmark does business were disrupted by damage and/or lack of access to Trustmark’s banking facilities. Other natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events may occur in the future. Although Management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s business, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. Table of Contents Trustmark’s Stock Price Can Be Volatile Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Trustmark’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors. These factors include: actual or anticipated variations in earnings; changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers; perception in the marketplace regarding Trustmark and/or its competitors; new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; significant acquisitions or business combinations involving Trustmark or its competitors, changes in government regulation and failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions could also cause Trustmark’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. An Investment In Trustmark’s Common Stock Is Not An Insured Deposit Trustmark’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in Trustmark’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire Trustmark’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 