ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Trustmark and its subsidiaries could be adversely impacted by various risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict. As a financial institution, Trustmark has significant exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. This section includes a description of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified by Management that could materially affect Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of Trustmark’s financial instruments in general, and Trustmark common stock, in particular. Additional risks and uncertainties that Management currently deems immaterial or is unaware of may also impair Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by the risk factors that are identified below. The occurrence of any one of, or of a combination of, these risk factors could have a material negative effect on Trustmark’s financial condition or results of operations. Risks related to Trustmark’s Industry and Business Trustmark’s largest source of revenue (net interest income) is subject to interest rate risk. Trustmark is exposed to interest rate risk in its core banking activities of lending and deposit taking, since assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change. For the year ended December 31, 2012, Trustmark’s total interest income was $371.7 million while net interest income was approximately $341.0 million. Although total interest income and net interest income were lower when compared with 2011, the impact of interest rate risk actually improved as Trustmark was able to secure more core deposits as a less sensitive funding source during the year. Financial simulation models are the primary tools used by Trustmark to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of scenarios, Management is provided with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Trustmark’s balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve and the changing composition of Trustmark’s balance sheet, resulting from both strategic plans and customer behavior. In addition, the model incorporates Management’s assumptions and expectations regarding such factors as loan and deposit growth, pricing, prepayment speeds and spreads between interest rates. Trustmark’s simulation model using balances at December 31, 2012 estimated that in the event of a hypothetical 200 basis point increase in interest rates, there would be an increase in net interest income of 0.5%. In the event of a hypothetical 100 basis point increase and decrease in interest rates using static balances at December 31, 2012, it is estimated net interest income may decrease by 0.1% and 4.9%, respectively. Net interest income is Trustmark’s largest revenue source, and it is important to discuss how Trustmark's interest rate risk may be influenced by the various factors shown below: · In general, for a given change in interest rates, the amount of the change in value (positive or negative) is larger for assets and liabilities with longer remaining maturities. The shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields, funding costs and investment income differently. · The remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as payment behavior changes in response to changes in interest rates. For example, if interest rates decline sharply, fixed-rate loans may pre-pay, or pay down, faster than anticipated, thus reducing future cash flows and interest income. Conversely, if interest rates increase, depositors may cash in their certificates of deposit prior to term (notwithstanding any applicable early withdrawal penalties) or otherwise reduce their deposits to pursue higher yielding investment alternatives. Repricing frequencies and maturity profiles for assets and liabilities may occur at different times. For example, in a falling rate environment, if assets reprice faster than liabilities, there will be an initial decline in earnings. Moreover, if assets and liabilities reprice at the same time, they may not be by the same increment. For instance, if the Federal funds rate increased 50 basis points, rates on demand deposits may rise by 10 basis points, whereas rates on prime-based loans will instantly rise 50 basis points. Financial instruments do not respond in a parallel fashion to rising or falling interest rates. This causes asymmetry in the magnitude of changes in net interest income, net economic value and investment income resulting from the hypothetical increases and decreases in interest rates. Therefore, Management monitors interest rate risk and adjusts Trustmark’s investment, funding and hedging strategies to mitigate adverse effects of interest rate shifts on Trustmark’s balance sheet. Trustmark utilizes derivative contracts to hedge Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSR) in order to offset changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rate environments. In spite of Trustmark’s due diligence in regard to these hedging strategies, significant risks are involved that, if realized, may prove such strategies to be ineffective, which could adversely affect results of operations. Risks associated with these strategies include the risk that counterparties in any such derivative and other hedging transactions may not perform; the risk that these hedging strategies rely on Management’s assumptions and projections regarding these assets and general market factors, including prepayment risk, basis risk, market volatility and changes in the shape of the yield curve, and that these assumptions and projections may prove to be incorrect; the risk that these hedging strategies do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other forecasted inputs to the hedging model; and the risk that the models used to forecast the effectiveness of hedging instruments may project expectations that differ from actual results. In addition, increased regulation of the derivative markets may increase the cost to Trustmark to implement and maintain an effective hedging strategy. 17 Table of Contents Trustmark closely monitors the sensitivity of net interest income and investment income to changes in interest rates and attempts to limit the variability of net interest income as interest rates change. Trustmark makes use of both on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk. The current low-interest-rate, slow-growth economic environment is inhibiting potential lending and economic growth, which could increase business risks for Trustmark. Lingering economic concerns resulting from the cumulative weight of soft U.S. labor markets, the Eurozone crisis, slowing growth in emerging markets and uncertainty regarding the effects of the resolution of the U.S. “fiscal cliff,” have tempered any optimism for economic improvement during 2013. The consensus private sector forecast suggests unemployment will remain above normal through 2013. The U.S. and European economies and financial markets tend to be closely associated, and therefore significant weakness in Europe would likely dampen domestic growth prospects during 2013. While domestic demand for loans has improved, particularly for commercial loans, further meaningful gains will depend on sustained economic growth. Washington’s budget gridlock is unsettling to both businesses and consumers, raising the risk that economic growth could be hurt during 2013 regardless of actions by Congress. Even with the legislative actions taken, the potential drag on economic growth in 2013 may only be mitigated and not eliminated. Strategic risk, including threats to business models from low rates, sluggish economic growth and the historic volume of new banking regulations, remains high. Management’s ability to plan, prioritize and allocate resources in this new environment will be critical to Trustmark’s ability to sustain earnings that will attract capital. Because of the increasing regulatory expectations created by recent legislation, Management will continue to be challenged in identifying alternative sources of revenue, prudently diversifying balance sheets and revenues and effectively managing the costs of compliance. Low interest rates seem likely to persist for some time, keeping pressure on net interest margins, as older assets continue to mature or default and are replaced with lower-yielding instruments. In addition, Management must protect against an increased vulnerability to rapidly changing rates in coming years in the event the current low-rate environment is replaced by a more volatile environment, which would increase exposure to reduced revenues from tighter margins. The European financial crisis has created risks and uncertainties affecting the global economy. Weak economic conditions, sovereign debt quality concerns and the uncertainties as to the prognosis for the European economy have continued to weaken recovery efforts in Europe, which could dampen growth prospects in the U.S. As global markets react to the European financial crisis and potential economic policy changes in Europe, assets, liabilities and cash flows with no direct connection to the Eurozone could be influenced. The potential impact on markets within the United States and on the economy of the United States is difficult to predict. Trustmark has no direct or indirect exposure to any debt of European sovereign or non-sovereign issuers, nor is it dependent upon any funding sources in the Eurozone for any short- or long-term liquidity. However, Trustmark, as a member of the global economy, could be indirectly affected if events in the Eurozone broadly cause widening of interest rate spreads or otherwise increase global market volatility. Despite recent optimism resulting from stabilization in the housing sector and credit quality improvement, Trustmark does not assume that the uncertain conditions in the economy will improve significantly in the near future. A further weakened economy could affect Trustmark in a variety of substantial and unpredictable ways. In particular, Trustmark may face the following risks in connection with these events: · Market developments and the resulting economic pressure on consumers may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause increases in delinquencies and default rates, which, among other effects, could further affect Trustmark’s charge-offs and provision for loan losses. · Loan performance could experience a significantly extended deterioration or loan default levels could accelerate, foreclosure activity could significantly increase, or Trustmark’s assets (including loans and investment securities) could materially decline, any one of which, or any combination of more than one of which, could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s financial condition or results of operations. · Conditions in Trustmark’s four key market regions, Florida, Mississippi, Tennessee or Texas, could worsen. · Competition in the industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. · Management’s ability to measure the fair value of Trustmark’s assets could be adversely affected by market disruptions that have made valuation of assets even more difficult and subjective. If Management determines that a significant portion of its assets have values that are significantly below their recorded carrying value, Trustmark could recognize a material charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination was made, Trustmark’s capital ratios would be adversely affected by any such change, and a rating agency might downgrade Trustmark’s credit rating or put Trustmark on credit watch. 18 Table of Contents It is difficult to predict the extent to which these challenging economic conditions will persist or whether that progress in the economic recovery will instead shift to the potential for further decline. If the economy does weaken in the future, it is uncertain how Trustmark’s business would be affected and whether Trustmark would be able successfully to mitigate any such effects on its business. Accordingly, these factors in the U.S. economy could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s financial condition and results of operations. Trustmark is subject to lending risk, which could impact the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and results of operations. There are inherent risks associated with Trustmark’s lending activities. While the housing and real estate markets have shown recent improvement, they remain at depressed levels. If trends in the housing and real estate markets were to revert or further decline below recession levels, Trustmark may experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, if the U.S. economy returns to a recessionary state, Management expects that it could severely affect economic conditions in Trustmark’s market areas and that Trustmark could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review Trustmark’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of Management. As a result, Trustmark may elect to make further increases in its provision for loan losses in the future, particularly if economic conditions deteriorate. Trustmark is subject to liquidity risk, which could disrupt its ability to meet its financial obligations. Liquidity refers to Trustmark’s ability to ensure that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demand for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs and other corporate purposes. Liquidity risk arises whenever the maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities differ or when assets cannot be liquidated at fair market value as needed. Trustmark obtains funding through deposits and various short-term and long-term wholesale borrowings, including federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, the Federal Reserve Discount Window and Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances. Any significant restriction or disruption of Trustmark’s ability to obtain funding from these or other sources could have a negative effect on Trustmark’s ability to satisfy its current and future financial obligations, which could materially affect Trustmark’s financial condition. In addition to the risk that one or more of the funding sources may become constrained due to market conditions unrelated to Trustmark, there is the risk that Trustmark’s credit profile may decline such that one or more of these funding sources becomes partially or wholly unavailable to Trustmark. Trustmark attempts to quantify such credit event risk by modeling bank specific and systemic scenarios that estimate the liquidity impact. Trustmark estimates such impact by attempting to measure the effect on available unsecured lines of credit, available capacity from secured borrowing sources and securitizable assets. To mitigate such risk, Trustmark maintains available lines of credit with the Federal Reserve Board and the FHLB that are secured by loans and investment securities. Management continuously monitors Trustmark’s liquidity position for compliance with internal policies. The Dodd-Frank Act and other legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to the financial services industry could materially affect Trustmark’s results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or the market price of Trustmark’s Common Stock. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which significantly reforms the regulatory structure relating to the financial services industry. The legislation, among other things, establishes the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which has broad authority to regulate providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services; narrows the scope of federal preemption of state consumer finance laws relating to national banks and operating subsidiaries of national banks, and may expand the authority of state attorneys general to bring actions against national banks to enforce federal consumer protection legislation. Dodd-Frank also more comprehensively regulates the over-the-counter derivatives market, including providing for more strict capital and margin requirements and central clearing of certain standardized derivatives; strengthens restrictions on lending limits and transactions with affiliates imposed by the National Bank Act; and restricts the interchange fees payable on electronic debit card transactions. Much of the legislative import of the Dodd-Frank Act is delegated to a variety of federal regulatory agencies, which are required to enact rules to implement various statutory mandates in the Act. As the Dodd-Frank Act continues to turn into specific regulatory requirements, there will be further business impacts across a myriad of industries, not just banking. Some of those impacts are readily anticipated, such as the change to interchange fees, which is described in the State Laws and Other Federal Oversight section in Item 1 – Business of this report. However, other impacts are subtle and are not yet capable of precise quantification. Many of these more subtle impacts will likely only emerge after months and perhaps years of further analysis and evaluation. In addition, certain provisions that affect deposit insurance assessments, payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees could increase the costs associated with deposits as well as place limitations on certain revenues those deposits may generate. Finally, implementation of certain significant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will continue to occur over a multi-year period. Because many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years, it is difficult to anticipate the potential impact on Trustmark and its customers. It is clear, however, that the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will continue to require Management to invest significant time and resources to evaluate the potential impact of this Act. 19 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act, as implemented by the regulations currently being promulgated by various federal regulatory agencies, along with other regulatory initiatives relating to the financial services industry, could materially affect Trustmark’s results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or the market price of Trustmark’s common stock. Management is unable to completely evaluate these potential effects at this time. It is also possible that these measures could adversely affect the creditworthiness of counterparties, which could increase Trustmark’s risk profile. Trustmark may be subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements. On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, announced agreement on the calibration and phase-in arrangements for a strengthened set of capital requirements, known as Basel III. In addition, on June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve Board, OCC, and FDIC jointly proposed new capital requirements that are consistent with Basel III and, if adopted, could affect Trustmark’s business. If adopted as proposed, the rules would require, among other things, a minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5 percent, net of regulatory deductions, and establish a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5 percent of common equity to risk-weighted assets above the regulatory minimum capital requirement, effectively establishing a minimum common equity Tier 1 ratio of 7 percent. In addition, the proposed rules increase the minimum Tier 1 capital requirement from 4 percent to 6 percent of risk-weighted assets. The proposed rules also specify that a bank with a capital conservation buffer of less than 2.5 percent would potentially face limitations on capital distributions and bonus payments to executives. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a Financial Stability Oversight Council that is expected to recommend to the Federal Reserve Board increasingly strict rules for capital requirements as companies grow in size and complexity and that applies the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies. These recommendations may remove trust preferred securities as a permitted component of a holding company’s Tier 1 capital, consistent with the federal bank regulatory agencies’ proposed capital rules. These recommendations, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect Trustmark’s ability to pay dividends, or could require Trustmark to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. The ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including treatment and implementation by the U.S. banking regulators. Trustmark could be required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets. When Trustmark acquires a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is generally allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. At December 31, 2012, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were $308.4 million. Under current accounting standards, if Trustmark determines goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, Trustmark would be required to write down the carrying value of these assets. Trustmark’s annual goodwill impairment evaluation performed during the fourth quarter of 2012 indicated no impairment of goodwill for any reporting segment. Management cannot provide assurance, however, that Trustmark will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have an adverse effect on Trustmark’s shareholders’ equity and financial results and could cause a decline in Trustmark’s stock price. Trustmark holds a significant amount of other real estate owned and may acquire and hold significant additional amounts, which could lead to increased operating expenses and vulnerability to additional declines in real property values. As business necessitates, Trustmark forecloses on and takes title to real estate serving as collateral for loans. At December 31, 2012, Trustmark held $83.9 million of other real estate owned, compared to $85.4 million at December 31, 2011. The amount of other real estate owned held by Trustmark may increase in the future as a result of, among other things, business combinations, the continued uncertainties in the housing market as well as persistently high levels of credit stress in residential real estate loan portfolios. Increased other real estate owned balances could lead to greater expenses as Trustmark incurs costs to manage, maintain and dispose of real properties. As a result, Trustmark’s earnings could be negatively affected by various expenses associated with other real estate owned, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, valuation adjustments and other expenses associated with real property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with other real estate owned assets. The expenses associated with holding a significant amount of other real estate owned could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely affect the value of Trustmark’s investments. Trustmark maintains an investment portfolio that includes, among other asset classes, obligations of states and municipalities, agency debt securities and agency mortgage-related securities. The market value of investments in Trustmark’s investment portfolio may be affected by factors other than interest rates or the underlying performance of the issuer of the securities, such as ratings downgrades, adverse changes in the business climate and a lack of pricing information or liquidity in the secondary market for certain investment securities. In addition, government involvement or intervention in the financial markets or the lack thereof or market perceptions regarding the existence or absence of such activities could affect the market and the market prices for these securities. On a quarterly basis, Trustmark evaluates investments and other assets for impairment indicators. As of December 31, 2012, total gross unrealized losses on temporarily impaired securities totaled $211 thousand. Trustmark may be required to record impairment charges if these investments suffer a decline in value that is other-than-temporary. If it is determined that a significant impairment has occurred, Trustmark would be required to charge against earnings the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations in the period in which a write-off, if any, occurs. If Trustmark is required to repurchase a larger number of mortgage loans that it had previously sold, such repurchases could negatively affect earnings. One of Trustmark’s primary business operations is mortgage banking under which residential mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market under agreements that contain representations and warranties related to, among other things, the origination and characteristics of the mortgage loans. Trustmark may be required to either repurchase the outstanding principal balance of a loan or make the purchaser whole for the economic benefits of a loan if it is determined that the loan sold was in violation of representations or warranties made by Trustmark at the time of the sale. Such representations and warranties, typically include those made regarding loans that had missing or insufficient file documentation and/or loans obtained through fraud by borrowers or other third parties. During 2012, Trustmark has continued to experience a manageable level of investor repurchase demands. Total mortgage loan servicing putback expense incurred by Trustmark in 2012 was $8.0 million, an increase of $2.9 million when compared to 2011. At December 31, 2012, the reserve for mortgage loan servicing putback expense was $7.8 million, which represented 0.2% of total loans serviced for others, compared to $4.3 million, or 0.1%, at December 31, 2011. If the level of investor repurchase demands increases in the future, this could significantly increase costs and have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s results of operations. Trustmark operates in a highly competitive financial services industry. Trustmark faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national and regional banks, as well as community banks within the various markets in which Trustmark operates. At this time, major international banks do not compete directly with Trustmark in its markets, although they may do so in the future. Trustmark also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Some of Trustmark’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many of Trustmark’s larger competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than Trustmark. Trustmark’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; the ability to continue to expand Trustmark’s market position through organic growth and acquisitions; the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; the rate at which Trustmark introduces new products and services relative to its competitors; and industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken Trustmark’s competitive position, which could adversely affect Trustmark’s growth and profitability. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect Trustmark. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or questions or rumors about, one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems, defaults and losses by Trustmark and by other institutions. Trustmark has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, mutual funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose Trustmark to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, Trustmark’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral it holds cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure owed to Trustmark. Losses related to these credit risks could materially and adversely affect Trustmark’s results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Trustmark may experience disruptions of its operating systems or breaches in its information system security. As is customary in the banking industry, Trustmark is dependent upon automated and non-automated systems to record and process our transaction volume. This poses the risk that technical system flaws, employee errors or tampering or manipulation of those systems by employees, customers or outsiders will result in losses. Any such losses, which may be difficult to detect, could adversely affect Trustmark’s financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the occurrence of such a loss could expose Trustmark to reputational risk, the loss of customer business, additional regulatory scrutiny or civil litigation and possible financial liability. Trustmark may also be subject to disruptions of operating systems arising from events that are beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). Trustmark is further exposed to the risk that third party service providers may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors as Trustmark). These disruptions may interfere with service to customers and result in a financial loss or liability that could adversely affect Trustmark’s financial condition or results of operations. Trustmark must utilize new technologies to deliver its products and services. In order to deliver new products and services and to improve the productivity of existing products and services, the banking industry relies on rapidly evolving technologies. Trustmark’s ability to effectively utilize new technologies to address customer needs and create operating efficiencies could materially affect future prospects. Management cannot provide any assurances that Trustmark will be successful in utilizing such new technologies. The stock price of financial institutions, like Trustmark, can be volatile. The volatility in the stock prices of companies in the financial services industry may make it more difficult for shareholders to resell Trustmark common stock at attractive prices in a timely manner. Trustmark’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including factors affecting the financial industry as a whole. The factors affecting financial stocks generally and Trustmark’s stock price in particular include: · actual or anticipated variations in earnings; · changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; · operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers; · perception in the marketplace regarding Trustmark, its competitors and/or the industry as a whole; · significant acquisitions or business combinations involving Trustmark or its competitors; · changes in government regulation; · failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; and · volatility affecting the financial markets in general. General market fluctuations, the potential for breakdowns on electronic trading or other platforms for executing securities transactions, industry factors and general economic and political conditions could also cause Trustmark’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. Changes in accounting standards may affect how Trustmark reports its financial condition and results of operations. Trustmark’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how Trustmark records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Trustmark’s financial statements. The ongoing economic recession has resulted in increased scrutiny of accounting standards by regulators and legislators, particularly as they relate to fair value accounting principles. In addition, ongoing efforts to achieve convergence between U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards may result in changes to GAAP. Any such changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how Trustmark records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, could have a significant negative impact on Trustmark’s business. Many of Trustmark’s loans are secured by property or are made to businesses in or near the Gulf Coast regions of Texas, Mississippi and Florida (and, upon consummation of the BancTrust merger, Alabama) which are often in the path of seasonal hurricanes. As reported in previous filings, Hurricane Katrina had a catastrophic effect on Trustmark’s Mississippi market, and in late summer 2008, Hurricane Gustav threatened to create a similar result in the Houston metropolitan area, which is the location of Trustmark’s Texas operations. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, could have a significant negative impact on the stability of Trustmark’s deposit base, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing loans, and could cause Trustmark to incur material additional expenses. Although Management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of a natural disaster, especially if any applicable insurance coverage is not adequate to enable Trustmark’s borrowers to recover from the effects of the event, could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark’s results of operations. Risks related to Trustmark’s Merger with BancTrust Combining BancTrust and Trustmark may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected. Until the effective time of the merger, Trustmark and BancTrust operated independently. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on Management’s ability to successfully combine the businesses of Trustmark and BancTrust. To realize these anticipated benefits, Trustmark expects to integrate BancTrust’s business into its own. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. The loss of key employees could adversely affect Trustmark’s ability to successfully conduct its business in the markets in which BancTrust previously operated, which could have an adverse effect on Trustmark’s financial results and the value of its common stock. If Trustmark experiences difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. As with any merger of financial institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause BancTrust or Trustmark to lose current customers or cause current customers to remove their accounts from BancTrust or Trustmark and move their business to competing financial institutions. Integration efforts between the two companies could also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of BancTrust and Trustmark during this transition period and for an undetermined period after consummation of the merger. Trustmark may fail to realize the cost savings estimated for the acquisition of BancTrust. Trustmark estimates that it will achieve cost savings from the merger when the two companies have been fully integrated. While Trustmark continues to be comfortable with these expectations, it is possible that the estimates of the potential cost savings could turn out to be incorrect. The cost savings estimates also assume Management’s ability to combine the businesses of Trustmark and BancTrust in a manner that permits those cost savings to be realized. If the estimates turn out to be incorrect or Trustmark is not able to successfully combine the two companies, the anticipated cost savings may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 