Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company faces numerous risks, including those set forth below or those described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only risks that the Company faces, nor are they necessarily listed in order of significance. Other risks and uncertainties may also affect its business operations. Any of these risks may have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Industry Factors Our business may be adversely affected by fluctuations in interest rates Significant increases in market interest rates, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both our ability to originate new loans and our ability to grow our business. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could result in an acceleration of loan prepayments. An increase in market interest rates could also adversely affect the ability of our floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could result in or contribute to an increase in nonperforming assets and charge-offs, which could adversely affect our business. Our net interest margin may be adversely affected by fluctuations in interest rates Changes in market interest rates, including changes in the relationship between short-term and long-term market interest rates or between different interest rate indices, can impact our net interest margin, that is, the difference between the interest rates we receive on interest earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits or other borrowings. The impact could result in a decrease in our interest income relative to interest expense. 8 Table of Contents BancWest Corporation and Subsidiaries PART I Terrorist activities and other international hostilities could have an adverse effect on the U.S. and international economies Acts or threats of terrorism and actions taken by the U.S. or other governments as a result of such acts or threats or other international hostilities may result in a disruption of U.S. and global economic and financial markets and could adversely affect business and economic and financial conditions in the U.S., globally or in our principal markets. Changes in, or the adverse effects of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect our business We are subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers and not for the benefit of investors in any of our securities. In the past, our business, as is the case with many banks, has been materially affected by these regulations. This will likely continue in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. Due to BNP Paribas’ controlling ownership of us, laws, regulations and policies adopted or enforced by the Government of France and the Federal Reserve Board, which supervise and regulate BNP Paribas, may adversely affect our activities and investments and those of our subsidiaries in the future. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Under long-standing policy of the Federal Reserve Board, a bank holding company and any financial holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, we may be required to commit financial and other resources to our subsidiary banks in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Refer to “Supervision and Regulation” above for discussion of other laws and regulations that may have a material effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our business may be adversely affected by substantial competition Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in the Western U.S. markets, as well as nationally and internationally. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions, credit unions, mortgage bankers, and major foreign-affiliated or foreign banks, as well as many financial and nonfinancial firms that offer products and services similar to those offered by us, including many large securities firms and mutual fund complexes. Some of our competitors are community or regional banks that have strong local market positions. Other competitors include large financial institutions and insurance companies that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources. Such larger financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. The increasing number of nonbank competitors providing financing services could adversely affect our business Technology and other changes increasingly allow parties to complete financial transactions electronically, and in many cases, without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds over the internet and by telephone without banks. Nonbank financial service providers may have lower overhead costs and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints. If consumers do not use banks to complete their financial transactions, we could potentially lose fee income, deposits and income generated from those deposits. Changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data. 9 Table of Contents BancWest Corporation and Subsidiaries PART I Company Factors Adverse economic conditions in California or Hawaii could adversely affect our business A substantial portion of our assets, deposits and fee income is generated in California and Hawaii. As a result, poor economic conditions in California or Hawaii may cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. Economic conditions in California are subject to various uncertainties at this time, including the pace and scope of the recovery in the technology sector, and the California state government’s continuing budgetary and fiscal difficulties. Hawaii’s economy is dependent to a considerable degree on the level of tourism. If economic conditions in California or Hawaii decline, we expect that our level of problem assets could increase and our prospects for growth could be impaired. The State of California continues to face fiscal challenges, the long-term impact of which on the State’s economy cannot be predicted with any certainty. Our business may be adversely affected by economic factors affecting certain industries we serve We are subject to certain industry-specific economic factors. For example, a significant and increasing portion of our total loan portfolio is related to residential real estate, automobile loans and leases, recreational vehicle loans and recreational marine vessel loans. Accordingly, a downturn in these industries or sectors could have an adverse effect on our operations and the quality of our loan portfolio. Increases in residential mortgage loan interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our operations by depressing new mortgage loan originations. We provide financing to businesses in a number of other industries that may be particularly vulnerable to industry-specific economic factors, including the commercial real estate industry, the agriculture industry and the construction industry. Recent increases in fuel prices and energy costs have adversely affected businesses in several of these industries. Industry-specific risks which are beyond our control could adversely affect our portfolio of loans, potentially resulting in an increase in nonperforming loans or charge-offs and a slowing of growth or reduction in our loan portfolio. Economic conditions which have a disproportionate impact on small businesses may adversely affect our business A portion of our loan portfolio involves Small Business Administration loans to small businesses. Small businesses are generally less able to withstand adverse economic conditions than larger businesses. Adverse business and economic conditions could negatively impact the ability of small businesses to meet loan obligations and reduce the lending market for Small Business Administration loans which could have an adverse impact on our business. Our business strategy includes pursuing opportunistic acquisitions, which subject it to related risks Historically, an important component of our overall growth strategy is to make focused acquisitions of complementary banks and other businesses. Acquisition activity, by its nature, is not predictable and involves risks such as: • Lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs in connection with acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses; • Potential unavailability of attractive acquisition candidates; • Potential disruption of management’s time and attention; • Possible loss of employees and customers of acquired banks or other companies; • Difficulty entering new and unfamiliar markets; • Incurring undiscovered liabilities or operational risks associated with acquired banks or other companies; • Incorrectly valuing acquisition candidates; and, • Inability to realize the growth opportunities of acquired businesses and inability to achieve efficiency goals. 10 Table of Contents BancWest Corporation and Subsidiaries PART I Loss of our status as a financial holding company would adversely affect our business and prospects We have made an election under federal banking law to become a financial holding company. Financial holding companies are permitted to engage in a wide range of financial activities, insurance, merchant banking and real estate investments that are not permissible for other bank holding companies. In order to remain a financial holding company we must continue to meet certain regulatory requirements, including certain of our affiliates remaining “well-capitalized” under federal regulatory capital guidelines. If we are unable to meet these requirements, we may be unable to offer the services of a financial holding company which could adversely affect our business and prospects. If BNP Paribas were to no longer have the status of a financial holding company, we expect that this would also impair our status as a financial holding company. Regulatory constraints could limit our ability to make acquisitions and risks associated with potential acquisitions or divestitures or restructurings may adversely affect our business We may seek to acquire or invest in financial and non-financial companies that complement our business. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing any such acquisition or investment as this will depend on the availability of prospective target opportunities at valuation levels we find attractive and the competition for such opportunities from other parties. Any acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and/or the incurrence of debt, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings could involve numerous additional risks including difficulties in obtaining any required regulatory approvals and in the integration or separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), divestitures required by regulatory authorities, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to us As a holding company, a substantial portion of our cash flow comes from dividends our bank subsidiaries pay to us. Various statutory provisions and regulatory policies restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiaries can pay to us without regulatory approval. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries were to liquidate, that subsidiary’s creditors would be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their claims against it before we, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, would be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. Privacy restrictions could adversely affect our business Our business model relies, in part, upon cross-marketing the services offered by our subsidiaries to our customers. Laws that restrict our ability to share information about customers within our corporate organization could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Legal actions could expose us to substantial uninsured liabilities We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. To protect ourselves from the cost of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third party vendors for important products and services Third party vendors provide various components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. 11 Table of Contents BancWest Corporation and Subsidiaries PART I We are exposed to operational risk as a result of the scale and scope of our business, which could adversely affect our results of operations We are exposed to operational risk as a result of the scale and scope of our business. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, human factors and systems or external events. We continually assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide for disaster and business recovery planning, including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as earthquakes, hurricanes or other natural disasters could still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and adversely affect our results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are controlled by BNP Paribas; our interests may not be the same as those of BNP Paribas BNP Paribas controls all of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, BNP Paribas can elect all of our directors and can control the vote on all matters, including: approval of mergers or other business combinations; a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities; incurrence of debt other than in the ordinary course of business; the selection and tenure of our Chief Executive Officer and payment of dividends with respect to our common stock or other equity securities. BNP Paribas’ view of possible new businesses, strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives may differ from ours. This may delay or hinder us from pursuing such initiatives. BNP Paribas’ financial condition could adversely affect our operations We have partly funded our operations through capital infusions and loans from BNP Paribas. Developments which negatively affect BNP Paribas could also have a negative effect on us. In addition, BNP Paribas’ credit ratings may affect our credit ratings. BNP Paribas is also subject to regulatory oversight and review by French, U.S. and other regulatory authorities. Our business operations and expansion plans could be negatively affected by regulatory concerns related to the French and European financial system, BNP Paribas and other developments concerning BNP Paribas, which may result in capital constraints as well as additional French and U.S. regulatory constraints. 