Risk Factors” and consolidated financial statement Note 3, “Assets Held for Sale.” Purchased Power Cost Recovery. Until July 1, 2007, Potomac Edison had a power purchase agreement with AE Supply to provide Potomac Edison with the power necessary to serve its retail customers in Virginia at rates that were consistent with generation rate caps in effect pursuant to the Virginia Electric Utility Restructuring Act of 1999 (the “Restructuring Act”). Effective with the expiration of that power purchase agreement on July 1, 2007, Potomac Edison began to purchase the power necessary to serve its Virginia customers through the wholesale market at market prices, through a competitive wholesale bidding process. In 32 Table of Contents April 2007 and again in March 2008, Potomac Edison conducted a competitive bidding process to purchase power requirements from the wholesale market for its retail customer service in Virginia, and AE Supply was the successful bidder with respect to a substantial portion of these requirements. The Restructuring Act initially capped generation rates until July 1, 2007. In 2004, it was amended to extend capped rates to 2010, but also provided that Virginia utilities that had divested their generation, such as Potomac Edison, could begin to recover purchased power costs on July 1, 2007. In 2007, the law was revised again to provide for generation rate caps to end on December 31, 2008. The market prices at which Potomac Edison has purchased power since the expiration in 2007 of its power purchase agreement with AE Supply were significantly higher than the capped generation rates initially set under the Restructuring Act. Although the Restructuring Act does provide for generation rate caps through December 31, 2008, it was amended to provide, among other things, that Virginia utilities, such as Potomac Edison, could begin to recover purchased power costs, such that the rates a utility would be permitted to charge Virginia customers beginning on July 1, 2007 would be based on the utility’s cost of purchased power. In an April 2007 filing with the Virginia SCC, Potomac Edison requested to adjust its fuel factor and to implement a rate stabilization plan, including an increase in retail rates of approximately $103 million to be phased in over three years beginning July 1, 2007, to offset the impact of increased purchased power costs. In June 2007, the Virginia SCC issued an order that denied Potomac Edison’s application and motion to establish interim rates, cancelled evidentiary hearings and dismissed the case, ruling that recovery was barred by a Memorandum of Understanding (the “MOU”) that Potomac Edison entered into with the Staff of the Virginia SCC in 2000 in connection with the transfer of its Virginia generating assets to AE Supply. Under the MOU, Potomac Edison agreed to forego fuel cost adjustments otherwise permitted under the Restructuring Act during the capped rate period, which, at the time that the MOU was entered into, was scheduled to expire as of July 1, 2007. On December 20, 2007, the Virginia SCC granted Potomac Edison partial ($9.5 million) recovery of increased purchased power costs, following a second application by Potomac Edison for rate recovery of $42.3 million. On May 15, 2008, following a third application by Potomac Edison, the Virginia SCC issued an order allowing Potomac Edison to increase its rates effective July 1, 2008, on an interim basis subject to refund, to collect $73 million of purchased power costs. Revenues were recognized based on the method under which the rates were developed and not the amounts collected. As a result, a portion of the amounts collected from July 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008 was deferred as a regulatory liability and was recognized as revenue from January through June 2009. On July 18, 2008, the Virginia SCC issued an order finding that the rate making provisions of the MOU would expire on December 31, 2008. On November 18, 2008, Potomac Edison filed with the Virginia SCC a comprehensive rate settlement agreed to with the Staff of the Virginia SCC, the Consumers Counsel of the Virginia Office of the Attorney General and a group of Potomac Edison’s industrial customers that transitions all customers to rates that allow for full recovery of purchased power costs no later than July 1, 2011. The Virginia SCC held a hearing on the settlement on November 18 and approved it without alteration or condition on November 26, 2008. Key provisions of the settlement include: • the $73 million rate increase approved on a temporary basis on May 15, 2008 will remain in effect through June 30, 2009; • for the period from July 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009, half of any further increase in purchased power costs for service to large non-residential customers will be forgone, up to $15 million; • for the period from July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010, the total rate increase for all other customers will be capped at 15%; and • during the period from July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2011, 100 MW of the power procured by Potomac Edison will be deemed for rate purposes to have been procured at the lesser of actual cost or $55 per MWh. 33 Table of Contents Potomac Edison successfully procured power in December 2008 to cover load for the settlement period through 2011, and AE Supply was the successful bidder with respect to a substantial portion of these requirements. On June 5, 2009, Potomac Edison filed a request for a transmission rate adjustment clause to collect $1.0 million of third-party transmission costs that it expects to incur between January 1, 2009 and August 31, 2010, as permitted by the settlement. Potomac Edison has proposed to recover this amount from its retail customers over the rate period from September 1, 2009 through August 31, 2010. The Virginia SCC approved recovery of all but an insignificant portion of this amount in an order issued on August 28, 2009. On May 15, 2009, the Virginia SCC issued an order concerning a request by Potomac Edison to recover purchased power costs to serve its Virginia customers. The Virginia SCC’s order granted an interim rate increase of approximately $19.4 million, subject to refund, effective July 1, 2009. In October 2009, Potomac Edison and the Staff of the Virginia SCC filed a joint stipulation, pursuant to which the rate increase would be reduced by $3.2 million to approximately $16.2 million. On October 30, 2009, the Virginia SCC issued an order that approved the joint stipulation. Transmission Expansion. On May 19, 2009, PATH-VA filed an application with the Virginia SCC for a certificate of public convenience and necessity to construct portions of the PATH Project in Virginia. The Virginia SCC established a procedural schedule that provided for an evidentiary hearing commencing on January 19, 2010. On December 21, 2009, PATH-VA filed a motion (as amended on December 29, 2009) to withdraw its application on the basis that certain sensitivity analyses conducted by PJM as directed by the Hearing Examiner suggested that the PATH Project appears not to be needed in June 2014 as a result of a reduction in the scope and severity of observed NERC reliability violations. PATH-VA further stated that, consistent with PJM processes, the PATH Project will be considered by PJM in its 2010 RTEP analysis to determine when it will be needed to resolve NERC reliability violations and that PATH-VA did not expect to file a new application prior to the third quarter of 2010. The Hearing Examiner suspended the procedural schedule and issued a report to the Virginia SCC recommending that the motion to withdraw be granted. On January 27, 2010, the Virginia SCC granted the motion to withdraw, and the application is no longer pending. 34 Table of Contents ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS The operations of Allegheny’s owned facilities, including its generation facilities, are subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations as to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters, some of which may be uncertain. Compliance may require Allegheny to incur substantial additional costs to modify or replace existing and proposed equipment and facilities. Information regarding capital expenditures and estimated capital expenditures associated with known environmental standards is provided under the heading “Capital Expenditures.” Additional legislation or regulatory control requirements have been proposed that, if enacted, may require supplementation or replacement of equipment at existing generation facilities at substantial additional cost. Global Climate Change The United States relies on coal-fired power plants for more than 48% of its energy. However, coal-fired power plants have come under scrutiny due to their emission of gases implicated in climate change, primarily carbon dioxide, or “CO2.” Allegheny produces approximately 95% of its electricity at coal-fired facilities and currently produces approximately 45 million tons of CO2 annually through its energy production. While there are many unknowns concerning the final regulation of greenhouse gases in the United States, federal and/or state legislation and implementing regulations addressing climate change, including limits on emissions of CO2, likely will be adopted some time in the future. Thus, CO2 legislation and regulation, if not reasonably designed, could have a significant impact on Allegheny’s operations. On June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act. The U.S. Senate released its draft of the bill, the Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act, on September 30, 2009. Additionally, on December 7, 2009, the EPA announced its Greenhouse Gas Endangerment Finding, stating that greenhouse gas emissions from cars and light trucks, when mixed in the atmosphere, endanger public health. The finding provides the EPA with a basis on which to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from vehicle tailpipes under the provisions of the Clean Air Act. Once a pollutant is regulated under the Clean Air Act for one source category, the EPA has authority to apply similar regulations to other source categories, and the EPA has announced its intention to do so. Hence, with the Endangerment Finding finalized, the EPA will have the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources such as electric generating units. Allegheny can provide no assurance that limits on CO2 emissions, if imposed by legislation or otherwise, will be set at levels that can accommodate its generation facilities absent the installation of controls. Moreover, there is a gap between desired reduction levels in the current proposed legislation and the current capabilities of technology; no current commercial-scale technology exists to enable many of the reduction levels in national, regional and state proposals. Such technology may not become available within a timeframe consistent with the implementation of any future climate control legislation or at all. To the extent that such technology does become available, Allegheny can provide no assurance that it will be suitable for installation at Allegheny’s generation facilities on a cost effective basis or at all. Based on estimates from a 2007 DOE National Electric Technology Laboratory report and announced projects by other entities, it could cost as much as $5,500 per kW to replace existing coal-based power generation with fossil fuel stations capable of capturing and sequestering CO2 emissions. However, exact estimates are difficult because of the variance in the legislative proposals and the current lack of deployable technology. Allegheny supports federal legislation and believes that the United States must commit to a response to climate change that both encourages the development of technology and creates a workable control system. Regardless of the eventual mechanism for limiting CO2 emissions, however, compliance will be a major and costly challenge for Allegheny, its customers and the region in which it operates. Most notable will be the potential impact on customer bills and disproportionate increases in energy cost in areas that have built their energy and industrial infrastructure over the past century based on coal-fired electric generation. 35 Table of Contents Because the legislative process and applicable technology each is in its infancy, it is difficult for Allegheny to aggressively implement greenhouse gas emission expenditures until the exact nature and requirements of any regulation are known and the capabilities of control or reduction technologies are more fully understood. Allegheny’s current strategy in response to climate change initiatives focuses on six tasks: • maintaining an accurate CO2 emissions data base; • improving the efficiency of its existing coal-burning generation facilities; • following developing technologies for clean-coal energy and for CO2 emission controls at coal-fired power plants, including carbon sequestration; • participating in CO2 sequestration efforts (e.g. reforestation projects) both domestically and abroad; • analyzing options for future energy investment (e.g. renewables, clean-coal, etc.); and • improving demand-side efficiency programs, as evidenced by customer conservation outreach plans and Allegheny’s Watt Watchers initiatives. Allegheny’s energy portfolio also includes approximately 1,180 MWs of renewable hydroelectric and pumped storage power generation. Allegheny obtained a permit to allow for a limited use of bio-mass (wood chips and saw dust) at one of its coal-fired power stations in West Virginia and currently has approval to use waste-tire derived fuel at another of its coal-based power stations in West Virginia. Allegheny intends to engage in the dialogue that will shape the regulatory landscape surrounding CO2 emissions. Additionally, Allegheny intends to pursue proven and cost-effective measures to manage its emissions while maintaining an affordable and reliable supply of electricity for its customers. Clean Air Act Compliance Allegheny currently meets applicable standards for particulate matter emissions at its generation facilities through the use of high-efficiency electrostatic precipitators, cleaned coal, flue-gas conditioning, optimization software, fuel combustion modifications and, at times, through other means. From time to time, minor excursions of stack emission opacity that are normal to fossil fuel operations are experienced and are accommodated by the regulatory process. Allegheny’s compliance with the Clean Air Act has required, and may require in the future, that Allegheny install control technologies on many of its generation facilities at significant cost. The Clean Air Interstate Rule (“CAIR”) promulgated by the EPA on March 10, 2005 may accelerate the need to install this equipment by phasing out a portion of the currently available allowances. The EPA is revising certain portions of CAIR that were invalidated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The EPA has cautioned that it is reviewing whether or not to have an annual NOx trading program (non-Ozone Season) beyond 2010. On March 15, 2005, the EPA issued the Clean Air Mercury Rule (“CAMR”), establishing a cap and trade system designed to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. On February 8, 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the rule in its entirety. The State of West Virginia subsequently suspended its rule for implementing CAMR. Pennsylvania and Maryland, however, took the position that their mercury rules, which are discussed below, survived this ruling. In addition, the EPA has announced plans to propose a new maximum achievable control technology rule for hazardous air pollutant emissions from electric utility steam generating units. The EPA is expected to finalize the new rule by November 2011. Accordingly, Allegheny is monitoring the EPA’s efforts to promulgate hazardous air pollutant rules that will include, but will not be limited to, mercury limits. To establish these standards with respect to mercury, the EPA must identify the best performing 12% of sources in each source category and, to that end, has issued an information request to members of the fossil fuel-fired generating industry that includes a requirement to conduct extensive stack emissions testing on selected generating units. Allegheny is required to conduct stack testing for nine of its generating units. Depending on the final hazardous air pollution limits set by the EPA, Allegheny could incur significant costs for additional control equipment. 36 Table of Contents The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (the “PA DEP”) promulgated a more aggressive mercury control rule on February 17, 2007. Pennsylvania’s proposed shortened compliance schedule and more aggressive emissions limits might result in the installation of additional emission controls at any of Allegheny’s three Pennsylvania coal-fired facilities or in a change in fuel specifications. Controls might include additional Scrubbers, activated carbon injection, selective catalytic reduction or other currently emerging technologies. On September 15, 2008, PPL Corporation filed a challenge to the PA DEP’s mercury rule in Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court. The Commonwealth Court overturned the Pennsylvania mercury rule on January 30, 2009. On December 23, 2009, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court affirmed the Commonwealth Court’s holding that the rule is invalid. Additionally, Maryland passed the Healthy Air Act in early 2006. This legislation imposes state-wide emission caps on SO2 and NOx, requires greater reductions in mercury emissions more quickly than required by CAMR and mandates that Maryland join the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (“RGGI”) and participate in that coalition’s regional efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. On April 20, 2007, Maryland’s governor signed on to RGGI, as a result of which Maryland became the 10th state to join the Northeast regional climate change and energy efficiency program. The Healthy Air Act provides a conditional exemption for the R. Paul Smith power station for NOx, SO2 and mercury, based on a PJM declaration that the station is vital to reliability in the Baltimore/Washington DC metropolitan area, which PJM determined in 2006. Pursuant to the legislation, the Maryland Department of the Environment (the “MDE”) passed alternate NOx and SO2 limits for R. Paul Smith, which became effective in April 2009. The MDE still expects R. Paul Smith to meet the Healthy Air Act mercury reductions of 80% beginning in 2010. The statutory exemption does not extend to R. Paul Smith’s CO2 emissions. Maryland issued final regulations to implement RGGI requirements in February 2008. Among other things, under RGGI, the MDE now auctions 100% of CO2 allowances associated with Maryland’s power plants, and Allegheny is participating in RGGI auctions. AE Supply and Monongahela comply with current SO2 emission standards through a system-wide plan combining the use of emission controls, low sulfur fuel and emission allowances. Allegheny continues to evaluate and implement options for compliance. It completed the elimination of a partial bypass of Scrubbers at its Pleasants generation facility in December 2007 and the construction of Scrubbers at its Hatfield’s Ferry and Fort Martin generating facilities in 2009. Allegheny now has Scrubbers installed and operating on all 10 of the units at its four supercritical generating facilities and at Mitchell Unit 3. Allegheny’s NOx compliance plan functions on a system-wide basis, similar to its SO2 compliance plan. AE Supply and Monongahela also have the option, in some cases, to purchase alternate fuels or NOx allowances, if needed, to supplement their compliance strategies. Allegheny currently has installed selective non-catalytic reduction equipment at its Fort Martin and Hatfield’s Ferry generating stations and selective catalytic reduction equipment at its Harrison and Pleasants generating stations, together with other NOx controls at these supercritical generating facilities, as well as its other generating facilities. On January 8, 2010, the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection (“WVDEP”) issued a Notice of Violation for opacity emissions at Allegheny’s Pleasants generating facility. Allegheny is evaluating certain control system options for opacity reduction. Although a system has not yet been selected, the cost to install any such system could be significant. Clean Air Act Litigation In August 2000, AE received a letter from the EPA requesting that it provide information and documentation relevant to the operation and maintenance of the following ten electric generation facilities, which collectively include 22 generation units: Albright, Armstrong, Fort Martin, Harrison, Hatfield’s Ferry, Mitchell, Pleasants, Rivesville, R. Paul Smith and Willow Island. AE Supply and/or Monongahela own these generation facilities. The letter requested information under Section 114 of the Clean Air Act to determine compliance with the Clean Air Act and related requirements, including potential application of the NSR standards of the Clean Air 37 Table of Contents Act, which can require the installation of additional air emission control equipment when the major modification of an existing facility results in an increase in emissions. AE has provided responsive information to this and a subsequent request. If NSR requirements are imposed on Allegheny’s generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance would entail significant capital investments in emission control technology. On May 20, 2004, AE, AE Supply, Monongahela and West Penn received a Notice of Intent to Sue Pursuant to Clean Air Act §7604 (the “Notice”) from the Attorneys General of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut and from the PA DEP. The Notice alleged that Allegheny made major modifications to some of its West Virginia facilities in violation of the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) provisions of the Clean Air Act at the following coal-fired facilities: Albright Unit No. 3; Fort Martin Units No. 1 and 2; Harrison Units No. 1, 2 and 3; Pleasants Units No. 1 and 2 and Willow Island Unit No. 2. The Notice also alleged PSD violations at the Armstrong, Hatfield’s Ferry and Mitchell generation facilities in Pennsylvania and identifies PA DEP as the lead agency regarding those facilities. On September 8, 2004, AE, AE Supply, Monongahela and West Penn received a separate Notice of Intent to Sue from the Maryland Attorney General that essentially mirrored the previous Notice. On January 6, 2005, AE Supply and Monongahela filed a declaratory judgment action against the Attorneys General of New York, Connecticut and New Jersey in federal District Court in West Virginia (“West Virginia DJ Action”). This action requests that the court declare that AE Supply’s and Monongahela’s coal-fired generation facilities in Pennsylvania and West Virginia comply with the Clean Air Act. The Attorneys General filed a motion to dismiss the West Virginia DJ Action. On June 28, 2005, the PA DEP and the Attorneys General of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Maryland filed suit against AE, AE Supply and the Distribution Companies in the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania (the “PA Enforcement Action”). This action alleges NSR violations under the federal Clean Air Act and the Pennsylvania Air Pollution Control Act at the Hatfield’s Ferry, Armstrong and Mitchell facilities in Pennsylvania. The PA Enforcement Action appears to raise the same issues regarding Allegheny’s Pennsylvania generation facilities that are before the federal District Court in the West Virginia DJ Action, except that the PA Enforcement Action also includes the PA DEP and the Maryland Attorney General. On January 17, 2006, the PA DEP and the Attorneys General filed an amended complaint. On May 30, 2006, the District Court denied Allegheny’s motion to dismiss the amended complaint. On July 26, 2006, at a status conference, the Court determined that discovery would proceed regarding liability issues, but not remedies. Discovery on the liability phase closed on December 31, 2007, and summary judgment briefing was completed during the first quarter of 2008. On November 18, 2008, the District Court issued a Memorandum Order denying all motions for summary judgment and establishing certain legal standards to govern at trial. In December 2009, a new trial judge was assigned to the case and has since entered an order granting a motion to reconsider the rulings in the November 2008 Memorandum Order. A ruling on those issues is expected within the first quarter of 2010. Trial has been tentatively scheduled to begin on September 13, 2010. In addition to this lawsuit, on September 21, 2007, Allegheny received a Notice of Violation (“NOV”) from the EPA alleging NSR and PSD violations under the federal Clean Air Act, as well as Pennsylvania and West Virginia state laws. The NOV was directed to AE, Monongahela and West Penn and alleges violations at the Hatfield’s Ferry and Armstrong generation facilities in Pennsylvania and the Fort Martin and Willow Island generation facilities in West Virginia. The projects identified in the NOV are essentially the same as the projects at issue for these four facilities in the May 20, 2004 Notice, the West Virginia DJ Action and the PA Enforcement Action. Allegheny intends to vigorously pursue and defend against the Clean Air Act matters described above but cannot predict their outcomes. 38 Table of Contents Clean Water Act Compliance In 2004, the EPA issued a final rule requiring all existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems withdrawing more than 50 million gallons of water per day to meet certain standards to reduce mortality of aquatic organisms pinned against the water intake screens or, in some cases, drawn through the cooling water system. The standards varied based on the type and size of the water bodies from which the plants draw their cooling water. In January 2007, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision on appeal that remanded a significant portion of the rule to the EPA. As a result, the EPA suspended the rule, except for a requirement, which existed prior to the EPA’s adoption of the 2004 rule, that permitting agencies use best professional judgment (“BPJ”) to determine the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impacts for existing facility cooling water intakes. Pending re-issuance of the 2004 rule by the EPA, permitting agencies thus will rely on BPJ determinations during permit renewal at existing facilities. On April 1, 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed the appeals court decision and upheld EPA’s authority to use cost/benefit analysis. The EPA has indicated that it plans to issue a proposed rule addressing the issues remanded by the Court by mid-2010 and to issue a final rule in 2012. Depending on the standards set by the EPA when it reissues this rule, Allegheny could incur significant costs for additional control equipment. Monongahela River Water Quality In late 2008, the PA DEP imposed water quality criteria for certain effluents, including total dissolved solid and sulfate concentrations in the Monongahela River, on new and modified sources, including the Scrubber project at the Hatfield’s Ferry generation facility. These criteria are reflected in the current PA DEP water discharge permit for that project. AE Supply has appealed the PA DEP’s permitting decision, which would require it to incur significant costs or negatively impact its ability to operate the Scrubbers. Preliminary studies indicate an initial capital investment of approximately $62 million in order to install technology to meet the total dissolved solid and sulfate limits in the permit. The permit has been independently appealed by Environmental Integrity Project and Citizens Coal Council who seek to impose more stringent technology-based effluent limitations. Those same parties have intervened in the appeal filed by AE Supply, and both appeals have been consolidated for discovery purposes. An order has been entered that stays the permit limits that AE Supply has challenged while the appeal is pending. No hearing date has been set. AE Supply intends to vigorously pursue these issues but cannot predict the outcome of these appeals. On November 7, 2009, the PA DEP published proposed amendments to the PA Chapter 95 rules that include an end-of-pipe limit for total dissolved solids for new and modified sources. The PA DEP’s proposed rule was open for public comment until February 12, 2010. In October, 2009, the WVDEP issued the water discharge permit for the Fort Martin generation facility. Similar to the Hatfield’s Ferry water discharge permit issued for the Scrubber project, the Fort Martin permit imposes effluent limitations for total dissolved solid and sulfate concentrations. The permit also imposes temperature limitations and other effluent limits for heavy metals that are not contained in the Hatfield’s Ferry water permit. Concurrent with the issuance of the Fort Martin permit, WVDEP also issued an administrative order that sets deadlines for Monongahela to meet certain of the effluent limits that are effective immediately under the terms of the permit. Monongahela has appealed the Fort Martin permit and the administrative order. The appeal includes a request to stay certain of the conditions of the permit and order while the appeal is pending. The request to stay has been granted pending a final decision on appeal and subject to WVDEP moving to dissolve the stay. The appeals have been consolidated and a hearing is likely to be scheduled for May 2010. The current terms of the Fort Martin permit would require Monongahela to incur significant costs or negatively impact operations at Fort Martin. Preliminary information indicates an initial capital investment in excess of the capital investment that may be needed at Hatfield’s Ferry in order to install technology to meet the total dissolved solid and sulfate limits in the Fort Martin permit, which technology may also meet certain of the other effluent limits in the permit. Additional technology may be needed to meet certain other limits in the permit. Monongahela intends to vigorously pursue these issues but cannot predict the outcome of these appeals. 39 Table of Contents Solid Waste The EPA is reviewing its waste regulations relating to coal combustion byproducts (“CCB”) partly in response to a Tennessee Valley Authority ash spill in Kingston, Tennessee on December 22, 2008. CCB includes bottom ash, boiler slag, fly ash and Scrubber byproducts including gypsum. CCB has historically been designated and managed as a non-hazardous waste and the EPA has twice determined it is not appropriate to regulate it as a hazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”). The EPA is reconsidering those earlier determinations and intends to issue new regulations for the management and disposal of CCB. The EPA has not yet reached a final decision on whether to regulate CCB as hazardous (RCRA Title C) or non-hazardous (RCRA Title D) or as a hybrid, but hopes to reach that decision during the first quarter of 2010. Should the EPA elect to designate CCB as hazardous at any point in its generation, storage, transportation or disposal cycle, it could significantly increase Allegheny’s cost of managing CCB materials. In addition to potential additional management costs, CCB generators could expect to see a reduction in options for beneficial reuse of CCB in applications such as mine reclamation, cement manufacture and agriculture, further increasing costs, as such materials will then enter landfills rather than beneficial reuse. The EPA might also designate CCB as hazardous only when it is destined for wet storage impoundments, which would reduce Allegheny’s potential waste management exposure. Global Warming Class Action On April 9, 2006, AE, along with numerous other companies with coal-fired generation facilities and companies in other industries, was named as a defendant in a class action lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi. On behalf of a purported class of residents and property owners in Mississippi who were harmed by Hurricane Katrina, the named plaintiffs allege that the emission of greenhouse gases by the defendants contributed to global warming, thereby causing Hurricane Katrina and plaintiffs’ damages. The plaintiffs seek unspecified damages. On December 6, 2006, AE filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs’ complaint on jurisdictional grounds and then joined a motion filed by other defendants to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim. At a hearing on August 30, 2007, the Court granted the motion to dismiss that AE had joined and dismissed all of the plaintiffs’ claims against all defendants. Plaintiffs appealed that ruling to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. On October 6, 2009, the assigned panel of the appellate court issued a written opinion that reversed the judgment entered by the District Court in favor of the defendants with respect to certain of the plaintiffs’ claims and remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings. On November 25, 2009, AE and others filed a petition to have all of the judges of the Fifth Circuit rehear the issues addressed in the panel’s October 6, 2009 opinion. There has been no ruling on that petition. AE intends to vigorously defend against this action but cannot predict its outcome. 40 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES Substantially all of Allegheny’s officers and other personnel are employed by AESC. As of December 31, 2009, AESC employed 4,383 employees. Of these employees, 1,223 are subject to collective bargaining arrangements. Approximately 72% of the unionized employees are at the Distribution Companies and approximately 28% are at AE’s other subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2009, System Local 102 of the Utility Workers Union of America (the “UWUA”) represents 1,037 employees, and locals of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (the “IBEW”) represent 186 employees. Collective bargaining arrangements with the IBEW and UWUA expire during 2010 and 2011, respectively. Members of IBEW Local 50, which includes 34 members, recently ratified a new five-year labor agreement that will extend from March 1, 2010 through February 28, 2015. Contract negotiations with IBEW Local 2357, which includes 123 members, with respect to its current agreement that expires on February 28, 2010, are still ongoing. The parties have agreed to extend the existing contract through March 31, 2010, and union members are expected to vote on a new agreement at the beginning of March 2010. Allegheny believes that current relations between it and its unionized and non-unionized employees are satisfactory. On September 19, 2005, AE entered into a Professional Services Agreement with a service provider under which, on November 1, 2005, the service provider assumed responsibility for many of Allegheny’s information technology functions. Unless extended by AE, the Professional Services Agreement will expire on December 31, 2012. 41 Table of Contents Executive Officers The names of AE’s executive officers, their ages, the positions they hold, and their business experience during the past five years appear below. All of AE’s officers are elected annually. Name Age Title Paul J. Evanson 68 Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Curtis H. Davis 57 Chief Operating Officer, Generation Rodney L. Dickens 52 Vice President Edward Dudzinski 57 Vice President David M. Feinberg 40 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Eric S. Gleason 43 Vice President, Corporate Development and Quality Kirk R. Oliver 52 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer William F. Wahl, III 50 Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Paul J. Evanson has been Chairman of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of AE since June 2003. Mr. Evanson is the Chair of the Executive Committee. Prior to joining Allegheny, Mr. Evanson was President of Florida Power & Light Company, the principal subsidiary of FPL Group, Inc., and a director of FPL Group, Inc. from 1995 to 2003. Curtis H. Davis has been Chief Operating Officer, Generation, of AE since March 2008. Prior to joining Allegheny, Mr. Davis served as Senior Vice President for Duke Energy Corporation’s non-regulated generation fleet from January 2003 to February 2008. Prior to that, he served in various senior operational positions at Duke Energy Corporation. Rodney L. Dickens has been Vice President of AE since joining Allegheny in June 2009 and also serves as President of Allegheny’s transmission and distribution business. Prior to joining Allegheny, Mr. Dickens was most recently Vice President, Asset Management and Centralized Services with Public Service Electric & Gas Company, where he worked in various capacities for the preceding 32 years. Edward Dudzinski has been Vice President, Human Resources and Security, of AE since August 2004. Prior to joining Allegheny, Mr. Dudzinski was Vice President, Human Resources for the Agriculture and Nutrition Platform and Pioneer Hi-Bred International, Inc. on behalf of E. I. DuPont de Nemours and Company (“DuPont”). Prior to that, he served in various other executive and leadership positions at DuPont. David M. Feinberg has been Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of AE since October 2006. Mr. Feinberg joined Allegheny in August 2004 and served as Deputy General Counsel until October 2006. Prior to joining Allegheny, Mr. Feinberg was a partner with the law firm of Jenner & Block LLP in its Chicago office. Eric S. Gleason has been Vice President, Corporate Development and Quality, of AE since October 2009. Mr. Gleason joined Allegheny in August 2008 and served as Vice President, Corporate Development until October 2009. Prior to joining Allegheny, Mr. Gleason was employed by JPMorgan Chase & Co. since 2002, and served as Executive Director, Natural Resources Investment Banking from 2005 to 2008. Prior to that, he served as Vice President in the Investment Banking Division of Goldman, Sachs & Co. Kirk R. Oliver has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of AE since October 2008. Prior to joining Allegheny, Mr. Oliver was employed by Hunt Power since June 2006 and served as a senior executive from June 2007 to October 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Oliver spent eight years at TXU Corp, starting as Treasurer and then serving as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. William F. Wahl, III has been Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of AE since May 2007. He joined Allegheny in 2003 and served as Assistant Controller, Corporate Accounting from February 2005 to May 2007. From 2002 to 2003, Mr. Wahl was employed by PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. Prior to that, he was employed by Dominion Resources, Inc. 42 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Allegheny is subject to a variety of significant risks that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond its control. A number of these risks are identified below, in addition to the matters set forth under “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Allegheny’s susceptibility to certain risks could exacerbate other risks. These risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating Allegheny’s risk profile. Risks Relating to the Merger with FirstEnergy Allegheny may be unable to obtain the approvals required to complete its merger with FirstEnergy or, in order to do so, the combined company may be required to comply with material restrictions or conditions. On February 11, 2010, Allegheny announced the execution of a merger agreement with FirstEnergy. Before the merger may be completed, both Allegheny and FirstEnergy will need to obtain shareholder approval for the proposed transaction. In addition, various filings must be made with FERC and various utility regulatory, antitrust and other authorities in the United States. These governmental authorities may impose conditions on the completion, or require changes to the terms, of the merger, including restrictions or conditions on the business, operations, or financial performance of the combined company following completion of the merger. These conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger, which could have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the combined company and/or cause either Allegheny or FirstEnergy to abandon the merger. If Allegheny and FirstEnergy are unable to complete the merger, we still will incur and will remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing, printing and other costs relating to the merger whether or not it is completed. Also, depending upon the reasons for not completing the merger, including whether Allegheny has received or entered into a competing takeover proposal, Allegheny may be required to pay FirstEnergy a termination fee of up to $150 million and reimburse FirstEnergy for its transaction expenses up to $45 million. Additionally, under specified circumstances in which the merger is not completed but the $150 million termination fee is not payable, Allegheny may nevertheless be required to reimburse FirstEnergy for its transaction expenses up to $45 million. Any such payment could have a material adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. See consolidated financial statement Note 27, “Subsequent Event – Merger Agreement.” If completed, Allegheny’s merger with FirstEnergy may not achieve its intended results. Allegheny and FirstEnergy entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Allegheny and FirstEnergy are integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of management’s time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial results and prospects. Allegheny will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger with FirstEnergy is pending that could adversely affect Allegheny’s financial results. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger with FirstEnergy on employees, customers and suppliers may have an adverse effect on Allegheny. Although Allegheny intends to take steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair Allegheny’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with Allegheny to seek to change existing business relationships. 43 Table of Contents Employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to the completion of the merger, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. If, despite Allegheny’s retention and recruiting efforts, key employees depart or fail to accept employment with us because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, Allegheny’s financial results could be affected. The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration of Allegheny and FirstEnergy may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. The diversion of management attention away from day-to-day business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect Allegheny’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the merger agreement restricts Allegheny, without FirstEnergy’s consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs or the merger agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent Allegheny from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to its business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. Risks Relating to Regulation Allegheny is subject to substantial governmental regulation. Compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and the need to obtain necessary approvals, permits and certificates may result in substantial costs to Allegheny, and failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals could have an adverse effect on its business. Allegheny is subject to substantial regulation from federal, state and local regulatory agencies. Allegheny is required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous authorizations, permits, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies. These agencies regulate various aspects of Allegheny’s business, including customer rates, services, retail service territories, generation plant operations and construction, sales of securities, asset sales and accounting policies and practices. Although Allegheny believes that the necessary authorizations, permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that its business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws, it cannot predict the impact of any future revisions or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to it. See “Environmental Matters” and “Regulatory Framework Affecting Allegheny.” Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence Allegheny’s operating environment and may result in substantial costs to Allegheny, which could have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Allegheny’s costs to comply with environmental laws are significant. New environmental laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could impose more stringent limitations on Allegheny’s generation operations or require it to incur significant additional costs. The cost of compliance with present and future environmental laws could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business. Allegheny’s operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and site remediation and may, in the future, become subject to new and potentially more extensive environmental regulations, including but not limited to regulations intended to address climate change. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require Allegheny to expend significant financial resources to, among other things, meet air emission and water quality standards, conduct site remediation, perform environmental monitoring, purchase emission allowances, use alternative fuels, install and operate pollution control equipment at its generation facilities and modulate operations of its generation facilities in order to reduce emissions. If Allegheny fails to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, even if it is unable to do so due to factors beyond its control, it 44 Table of Contents may be subject to civil liabilities or criminal penalties and may be required to incur significant expenditures to come into compliance. In addition, any alleged violations of environmental laws and regulations may require Allegheny to expend significant resources defending itself against such alleged violations. Either result could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Allegheny also may be subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations. For example, applicable standards under the EPA’s NSR initiatives remain in flux. Under the Clean Air Act, modification of Allegheny’s generation facilities in a manner that causes increased emissions could subject Allegheny’s existing facilities to the far more stringent NSR standards applicable to new facilities. The EPA has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of NSR standards in connection with work believed by the companies to be routine maintenance. Allegheny currently is involved in litigation concerning alleged violations of the PSD provisions of the Clean Air Act at certain of its facilities in West Virginia and violations of the Pennsylvania Air Pollution Control Act and NSR provisions of the Clean Air Act at certain of its facilities in Pennsylvania. Allegheny intends to vigorously pursue and defend against the environmental matters described above but cannot predict their outcomes. If NSR and similar requirements are imposed on Allegheny’s generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance would entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, Allegheny incurs costs to obtain and comply with a variety of environmental permits, licenses, inspections and other approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval, or if Allegheny fails to obtain, maintain or comply with any required approval, operations at affected facilities could be halted, curtailed or subjected to additional costs, which could have an adverse impact on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. See “Environmental Matters.” Shifting state and federal regulatory policies impose risks on Allegheny’s operations. Compliance with emerging regulatory initiatives could require Allegheny to incur significant costs. Delays, discontinuations or reversals of electricity market restructurings in the markets in which Allegheny operates could have an adverse effect on its business. Allegheny’s operations are subject to evolving regulatory policies, including initiatives regarding deregulation and re-regulation of the production and sale of electricity, the restructuring of transmission regulation and energy efficiency and conservation. Any new requirements arising from these actions could lead to increased operating expenses and capital expenditures, the full amount of which cannot be predicted at this time. Some deregulated electricity markets in which Allegheny operates have experienced price volatility. In some of these markets, government agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to delay market restructuring or even re-regulate areas of these markets that have previously been deregulated. Although it is possible that, in an economic downturn, price increases resulting from the transition to market rates could be smaller than previously anticipated, the heightened public and political concern over the transition to market rates could nevertheless be exacerbated by the current deteriorating national economic climate and its potential effects on consumers. In Pennsylvania, many of the state’s electric utilities, including Allegheny, are scheduled to transition to market rates in 2010 and 2011, when applicable generation rate caps expire. Significant price increases in other states following the end of such regulatory transition periods have created a heightened political concern regarding price volatility in Pennsylvania following the expiration of its rate caps. In September 2007, a special legislative session was convened in Pennsylvania to consider various energy proposals. During the special session, several proposed bills involving the extension of rate caps were introduced. Currently, generation rate caps for Allegheny’s Pennsylvania customers expire at the end of 2010. While the Pennsylvania General 45 Table of Contents Assembly adopted legislation in October 2008 that includes a number of conservation and demand-side management measures and procurement procedures, it does not address rate mitigation or the transition to market rates. However, there can be no assurance that the Pennsylvania legislature will not adopt such measures in the future. See “Regulatory Matters.” Other proposals to re-regulate the industry may be made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric power restructuring process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued or reversed in the states in which Allegheny operates. Delays, discontinuations or reversals of electricity market restructurings in the markets in which Allegheny operates could have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. At a minimum, these types of actions raise uncertainty concerning the continued development of competitive power markets. Given Allegheny’s multi-state operations and asset base, re-regulation of restructured obligations could prove intricate, time-consuming and costly to ongoing operations. In addition, as a result of FERC’s efforts to implement a long-term rate design for the Midwest and mid-Atlantic regions, the Distribution Companies may not fully recover their transmission costs and may have costs shifted to them from other transmission owners. Due to capped rates and the timing of state rate cases, the Distribution Companies may not be able to pass through increased transmission costs to these retail customers for some period of time. See “Regulatory Matters.” Furthermore, some of the states in which Allegheny operates have enacted or are considering various energy efficiency and conservation programs, which could prove costly for Allegheny. In 2008, for example, Pennsylvania adopted Act 129, which includes a number of provisions relating to conservation, demand-side management and power procurement processes. Maryland has adopted some similar measures as part of its EmPOWER Maryland initiative. Among other things, Act 129 requires the implementation of smart meter technology, in connection with which Allegheny expects to incur substantial costs. Although Act 129 includes cost recovery provisions, any delay in or denial of cost recovery could adversely affect Allegheny. Additionally, failure to comply with Act 129 could result in significant penalties. See “Regulatory Matters.” State rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on Allegheny’s operations. Any denial of, or delay in, cost recovery could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business. The retail rates in the states in which Allegheny operates are set by each state’s regulatory body. As a result, in certain states, Allegheny may not be able to recover increased, unexpected or necessary costs and, even if Allegheny is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time Allegheny incurs such costs and the time Allegheny is allowed to recover them. Any denial of, or delay in, cost recovery could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. See “Regulatory Framework Affecting Allegheny.” Allegheny could be subject to significant penalties if it violates mandatory NERC reliability standards. The Energy Policy Act amended the FPA to, among other matters, provide for mandatory reliability standards designed to assure the reliable operation of the bulk power system. NERC established, and the FERC approved, reliability standards that impose certain operating, record-keeping and reporting requirements on the Distribution Companies, TrAIL Company, PATH, LLC, AE Supply and AGC. NERC delegated the day-to-day implementation and enforcement of these standards to eight regional oversight entities, including ReliabilityFirst, of which Allegheny is a member. Allegheny has been, and will continue to be, subject to routine audits with respect to its compliance with applicable reliability standards and has settled certain related issues. In addition, ReliabilityFirst is currently conducting several violation investigations that have been self-reported by Allegheny. The results of these proceedings and investigations have not had, and are not expected to have, any material impact on Allegheny’s operations or the results thereof. It is possible, however, that any violation of these mandatory standards could subject Allegheny to civil fines imposed by FERC for up to $1.0 million per day, per violation, which could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. See “Regulatory Framework Affecting Allegheny.” 46 Table of Contents The TrAIL Project and the PATH Project are subject to permitting and state regulatory approvals, and the failure to obtain any of these permits or approvals could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business. The construction of both the TrAIL Project and the PATH Project are subject to the prior approval of various regulatory bodies. TrAIL Company has obtained the state siting approvals (subject to a pending appeal in Pennsylvania) necessary to construct TrAIL and is continuing to pursue necessary permits. Allegheny met with substantial political opposition, as well as opposition from environmental, community and other groups, in obtaining siting approval for TrAIL and is likely to encounter similar opposition with regard to the PATH Project. There can be no assurance that Allegheny will be able to obtain the regulatory approvals required in connection with these projects, particularly the siting approvals required to construct PATH, on a timely basis or at all. The inability to obtain any required state approval or other regulatory approval as a result of such opposition or otherwise, may have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. See “Regulatory Framework Affecting Allegheny.” The pending sale of Potomac Edison’s Virginia distribution assets is subject to the approval of the Virginia SCC, the denial of which could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s financial condition. The pending sale of Potomac Edison’s distribution business in Virginia is subject to regulatory approval, which the Virginia SCC may not grant. On May 4, 2009, Potomac Edison signed definitive agreements to sell its electric distribution operations in Virginia to Rappahannock Electric Cooperative and Shenandoah Valley Electric Cooperative for cash proceeds of approximately $340 million, subject to state and federal regulatory approval, certain third-party consents and applicable price adjustments. On September 15, 2009, Potomac Edison and the Cooperatives filed with the Virginia SCC a joint request for approval of the transaction. The Virginia SCC issued a procedural order scheduling an evidentiary hearing on the matter for March 2, 2010. On January 29, 2010, consultants retained by the Staff of the Virginia SCC filed testimony analyzing the transaction, asserting that current Virginia customers of Potomac Edison would pay $370 million more in rates over nine years if the Cooperatives take over service to those customers. Potomac Edison and the Cooperatives filed rebuttal testimony on February 12, 2010. Any failure to consummate the proposed sale, whether as a result of actions by the Virginia SCC or otherwise, may have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. See “Regulatory Framework Affecting Allegheny.” Allegheny is from time to time subject to federal or state tax audits the resolution of which could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s financial condition. Allegheny is subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other state and local taxing authorities. Determinations and expenses related to these audits and examinations and other proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing authorities could materially and adversely affect Allegheny’s financial condition. Risks Relating to Allegheny’s Operations Decreasing demand for electric power, as well as for certain commodities underlying the production of electric power and the related decline in market prices for power are adversely affecting Allegheny’s business. During 2009, customer demand for electric power in Allegheny’s region fell significantly as a result of the ongoing economic recession and mild summer weather, among other factors. Overall demand for some of the commodities that underlie the production of electricity, and as a result the prevailing prices for those commodities, have also declined. Although power prices may be influenced by many factors, weakening demand for electricity, together with significantly lower commodity prices, have contributed to sharp declines in market prices for power over the past 12 to 15 months. Partly as a consequence of these declines, AE Supply generated significantly less power in 2009 than in 2008. 47 Table of Contents Allegheny can make no assurances regarding the impact of any economic recovery on demand and market prices for power. Improvements in demand and market prices for power, if any, may lag any future improvements in overall economic conditions, and it is also possible that the current economic climate could result in long-term reduction of demand for power in our region, particularly among large industrial consumers. It is also possible that changes in customer behavior, as a result of conservation programs such as EmPOWER Maryland and Pennsylvania’s Act 129 or otherwise, could result in long-term reductions in demand for power. Allegheny’s coal inventories have, at times, exceeded desirable levels as a result of recent decreases in our power production resulting from declines in demand and market prices for power. AE Supply and Monongahela have various longer term coal supply contracts in place that are intended to partially mitigate our exposure to negative fluctuations in coal prices. In some cases, these contracts may require that AE Supply or Monongahela purchase a minimum volume of coal over a given time period. However, as a result of falling demand and market prices for power, Allegheny experienced declines in 2009 in the frequency with which its coal burning power plants operated. As a result, Allegheny’s coal consumption decreased significantly. Although Allegheny has been able to defer or cancel deliveries under certain contracts, it has at times been required to purchase coal in excess of immediate needs, resulting in coal inventories at some of its facilities that exceed what it considers to be optimal levels, which could have an adverse impact on its business. As coal inventories reach levels in excess of optimal levels, Allegheny may be unable to accept future deliveries at one or more of its facilities and may need to pursue alternative arrangements, including third party sales of inventory at levels below its cost, arrangements for third-party storage of a portion of its coal inventory, and modifications to its existing coal supply agreements. Allegheny’s generation facilities are subject to unplanned outages and significant maintenance requirements. The operation of power generation facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. If Allegheny’s facilities, or the facilities of other parties upon which it depends, operate below expectations, Allegheny may lose revenues, have increased expenses or fail to receive or deliver the amount of power for which it has contracted. Allegheny’s supercritical generation facilities were originally constructed in the late 1960s and early 1970s, and many of its other generation facilities were constructed prior to that time. Older equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant maintenance and capital expenditures to operate at peak efficiency or availability. If Allegheny underestimates required maintenance expenditures or is unable to make required capital expenditures due to liquidity constraints, it risks incurring more frequent unplanned outages, higher than anticipated maintenance expenditures, increased operation at higher cost of some of its less efficient generation facilities and the need to purchase power from third parties to meet its supply obligations, possibly at times when the market price for power is high, all of which may have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Allegheny’s operating results are subject to seasonal and weather fluctuations and other factors that affect customer demand. The sale of power generation output is generally a seasonal business, and weather patterns can have a material impact on Allegheny’s operating results. Demand for electricity in Allegheny’s service territory peaks during the summer and winter months. During periods of peak demand, the capacity of Allegheny’s generation facilities may be inadequate to meet its contractual obligations, which could require it to purchase power at a time when the market price for power is high. In addition, although the operational costs associated with the Regulated Operations segment are not weather-sensitive, the segment’s revenues are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Accordingly, Allegheny’s annual results and liquidity position may depend disproportionately on its performance during the winter and summer. 48 Table of Contents Extreme weather or events outside of Allegheny’s service territory can also have a direct effect on the commodity markets. Events, such as hurricanes, that disrupt the supply of commodities used as fuel impact the price and availability of energy commodities and can have an adverse impact on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Allegheny’s results also may be negatively impacted as a result of other circumstances that affect customer demand for power. For example, it is possible that the current economic downturn, as well as conservation efforts such as the EmPOWER Maryland program and Pennsylvania’s Act 129, have and will continue to contribute to changes in customer behavior, which may result in a significant reduction in demand, particularly among commercial and industrial customers, which could, in turn, have an adverse impact on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Changes in weather patterns as a result of global warming could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business. Allegheny also could be impacted to the extent that global warming trends affect established weather patterns or exacerbate extreme weather or weather fluctuations. Although Allegheny’s physical assets are located in a region in which they are unlikely to experience detrimental physical damage from the rising sea levels that have been modeled in various analyses that attempt to predict the effects of global warming, other weather-related effects that could be associated with global warming, such as an increase in the frequency and/or severity of storms or other significant climate changes within or outside of Allegheny’s service territory, may have an adverse impact on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Allegheny’s assets are subject to other risks beyond its control, including, but not limited to, accidents, storms, natural catastrophes and terrorism. Much of the value of Allegheny’s business consists of its portfolio of power generation and T&D assets. Allegheny’s ability to conduct its operations depends on the integrity of these assets. The cost of repairing damage to its facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events may exceed available insurance, if any, for repairs, which may adversely impact Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Although Allegheny has taken, and will continue to take, reasonable precautions to safeguard these assets, Allegheny can make no assurance that its facilities will not face damage or disruptions or that it will have sufficient insurance, if any, to cover the cost of repairs. In addition, in the current geopolitical climate, enhanced concern regarding the risks of terrorism throughout the economy may impact Allegheny’s operations in unpredictable ways. Insurance coverage may not cover costs associated with any of these risks adequately or at all. While some losses may be recoverable through regulatory proceedings, the delay and uncertainty of any such recovery may have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. The supply and price of fuel may impact Allegheny’s financial results. Allegheny is dependent on coal for much of its electric generation capacity. Allegheny has coal supply contracts in place that partially mitigate its exposure to negative fluctuations in coal prices. However, Allegheny can provide no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal. The suppliers under these agreements may, as a general matter, experience financial, legal or technical problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations. Among other circumstances, the prevailing constrained credit markets and overall negative economic conditions may affect the ability of Allegheny’s suppliers to access the capital markets and maintain adequate liquidity to sustain their respective businesses. Additionally, to the extent that any of Allegheny’s coal suppliers seek bankruptcy protection, they may, in the current climate, be unable to obtain the financing necessary to continue their operations in bankruptcy and reorganize and, thus, may be forced to liquidate. Various industry and operational factors, including increased costs, transportation constraints, safety issues and operational difficulties may have negative effects on coal supplier performance. During periods of rising coal prices, the factors impacting supplier performance could have a more pronounced financial impact. 49 Table of Contents Furthermore, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to Allegheny under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. If Allegheny is unable to obtain its coal requirements under these contracts, it may be required to purchase coal at higher prices. In addition, although these agreements generally contain specified prices, they also may provide for price adjustments related to changes in specified cost indices, as well as specific events, such as changes in regulations affecting the coal industry. Finally, it is possible that, in the future, market prices for coal could fall below the prices at which we have agreed to purchase coal under our long-term contracts. Changes in the supply and price of coal may have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Additionally, Allegheny is subject to other fuel-related costs, which may fluctuate. For example, Allegheny has experienced, and may continue to experience, increases in its fuel handling and transportation costs and its costs to procure lime, urea and other materials necessary to the operation of its pollution controls. Significant increases in these and other fuel related costs could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. The supply and price of emissions credits may impact Allegheny’s financial results. Allegheny’s SO2 and NOx allowance needs, to a large extent, are affected at any given time by the amount of output produced and the types of fuel used by its generation facilities, as well as the implementation of environmental controls. Fluctuations in the availability or cost of these emission allowances could have a material adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. It is also possible that any climate change legislation will incorporate a cap and trade scheme involving CO2 emission allowances. In that case, the cost and availability of CO2 emission allowances could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. See “Environmental Matters.” Allegheny is currently involved in capital intensive projects that may involve various implementation and financial risks. Allegheny currently is involved in a number of capital intensive projects, including the TrAIL Project, the PATH Project and the implementation of smart meter and other information technology necessary to comply with Pennsylvania’s recently-enacted Act 129. Allegheny’s ability to successfully complete these projects in a timely manner, within established budgets and without significant operational disruptions is contingent upon many variables, many of which are outside of its control. Failure to complete these projects as planned may have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Additionally, Allegheny has contracted with specialized vendors in connection with these projects, and may in the future enter into additional such contracts with respect to these and other capital projects. As such, Allegheny is exposed to the risk that these contractors may not perform as required under their contracts. Such a failure could occur for any number of reasons. Among other things, it is possible that the prevailing constrained credit markets and overall negative economic conditions may affect the ability of Allegheny’s contractors, subcontractors, suppliers and vendors to access the capital markets and maintain adequate liquidity to sustain their respective businesses. Should this occur, Allegheny may be forced to find alternate arrangements, which may cause delay and/or increased costs. Allegheny can provide no assurance that it would be able to make such alternate arrangements on terms acceptable to it or at all. Any inability to make such alternate arrangements or any substantial delays or increases in costs associated therewith may have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. For additional information regarding Act 129, see “Regulatory Matters.” Changes in PJM market policies and rules or in PJM participants may impact Allegheny’s financial results. Because Allegheny has transferred functional control of its transmission facilities to PJM, is a load serving entity within the PJM Region and owns generation within the PJM Region, changes in PJM policies and/or market rules, including changes that are currently under consideration by FERC, could adversely affect 50 Table of Contents Allegheny’s financial results. These matters include changes involving: the terms, conditions and pricing of transmission services; construction of transmission enhancements; auction of long-term financial transmission rights and the allocation mechanism for the auction revenues; the RPM; the locational marginal pricing mechanism; transmission congestion patterns due to the proposed implementation of PJM’s regional transmission expansion planning protocol or other required transmission system upgrades; new generation retirement rules and reliability pricing issues. Furthermore, changes in PJM’s credit and collateral requirements, deterioration in the credit quality of other PJM members, socialization of member defaults, the withdrawal from, or addition to, PJM of other transmission owners, may have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. The terms of AE Supply’s power sale agreements with West Penn could require AE Supply to sell power below its costs or prevailing market prices or require West Penn to purchase power at a price above which it can sell power. In connection with regulations governing the transition to market competition, West Penn is required to provide electricity at capped rates to certain retail customers who do not choose an alternate electricity generation supplier or who return to utility service from alternate suppliers through the end of 2010. West Penn satisfies these obligations by purchasing power under a contract with AE Supply. At times, AE Supply may not earn as much as it otherwise could by selling power priced at its contract rates to West Penn instead of into competitive wholesale markets. In addition, AE Supply’s obligations under the agreement could exceed its available generation capacity, which may require AE Supply to buy power at prices that are higher than the sale prices in the power supply agreements. Conversely, West Penn’s capped rates may be below current wholesale market prices through the applicable transition periods. As a consequence, West Penn may at times pay more for power than it can charge retail customers and may be unable to pass the excess costs on to its retail customers. Changes in customer switching behavior could also alter both AE Supply’s and the utilities’ obligations under these agreements. Allegheny is exposed to price volatility as a result of its participation in wholesale energy markets. AE Supply buys and sells electricity in wholesale markets, which exposes Allegheny to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets. Among the factors that can influence such prices are: • the balance of supply and demand for electricity, which may be influenced by any number of factors, including but not limited to prevailing weather and economic conditions; • fuel costs, the cost of emissions allowances and other production costs; • transmission constraints; • changes in PJM rules and other changes in the regulatory framework for wholesale power markets; and • market liquidity and the credit worthiness of market participants. As a result of these and other factors, wholesale market prices for electricity may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable, and may have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Allegheny’s use of derivative instruments for hedging purposes may result in financial losses. Allegheny uses derivative instruments, such as futures, swaps, forwards and financial transmission rights, to manage its commodity and financial market risks. Allegheny could recognize losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or to the extent that a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively-quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these instruments involves management’s judgment or use of estimates. Furthermore, changes in the value of derivatives designated under hedge accounting to the extent not fully offset by changes in the value of the hedged transaction can result in ineffectiveness losses that may have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s results of operations. 51 Table of Contents Recently, members of Congress and various federal regulatory agencies, including the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the U.S. Treasury Department, have put forth proposals regarding the potential for more stringent regulation of the over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives markets. If ultimately adopted, such regulations could include requirements for greater standardization and more centralized trading of these instruments. Some have proposed that OTC derivatives trading take place on organized exchanges. Depending upon its specific terms, it is possible that any new legislation or regulation in this regard could significantly increase Allegheny’s costs with respect to, or otherwise constrain its ability to effectively use, these instruments to manage financial risks, which could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Changes in prevailing market conditions or in Allegheny’s access to commodities markets may make it difficult for Allegheny to hedge its physical power supply commitments and resource requirements. In the past, unfavorable market conditions, coupled with Allegheny’s credit position, at times made it difficult for Allegheny to hedge its power supply obligations and fuel requirements. Although substantial improvements have been made in Allegheny’s credit position over the past few years, significant unanticipated changes in commodity market liquidity and/or Allegheny’s access to the commodity markets, including as a result of any decline in Allegheny’s credit ratings (including ratings for AE, AE Supply or Monongahela), could adversely impact Allegheny’s ability to hedge its portfolio of physical generation assets and load obligations. In the absence of effective hedges for these purposes, Allegheny must balance its portfolio in the spot markets, which are volatile and can yield different results than expected. Furthermore, if Allegheny’s credit ratings were to decline, it would likely be required to deposit additional cash or cash-equivalent collateral with its hedging counterparties, which could have a negative impact on Allegheny’s liquidity and commodity trading activities. As widely reported, the financial markets and overall economies in the United States and abroad are currently undergoing a period of significant uncertainty and volatility. These conditions can adversely impact the liquidity of the commodity markets in which Allegheny may wish to transact and may negatively affect the ability of Allegheny’s counterparties to honor their commitments. This, in turn, could inhibit Allegheny’s ability to transact in the desired timeframe or at a satisfactory price, which could increase Allegheny’s exposure to commodity price fluctuations and may have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flow and financial conditions. Allegheny’s policies and procedures cannot eliminate all risk involved in its energy commodity activities. Allegheny may not always hedge the entire exposure of its operations to commodity price volatility. Furthermore, Allegheny’s risk management, wholesale marketing, fuel procurements and energy trading activities, including its decisions to enter into power sales or purchase agreements, rely on models that depend on the judgments and assumptions regarding factors such as generation facility availability, future market prices, weather and the demand for electricity and other energy-related commodities. Many of these models are developed utilizing statistical relationships between numerous interrelated factors. Such relationships can change significantly in an unpredictable manner, especially during periods of significant volatility. Even when Allegheny’s policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these models, Allegheny’s policies and procedures cannot eliminate all risk involved in its energy commodity activities. Allegheny’s financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected if the judgments and assumptions underlying its models prove to be inaccurate or commodity prices otherwise fluctuate in ways that Allegheny does not anticipate. Failure to retain and attract key executive officers and other skilled professionals and technical employees could have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s operations. Allegheny’s business is dependent on its ability to recruit, retain and motivate employees. Competition for skilled employees in some areas is high. At the same time, Allegheny has an aging workforce. The inability to 52 Table of Contents attract new employees, whether to appropriately replace retiring and other departing employees or otherwise, and to retain and motivate existing employees may have an adverse effect on Allegheny’s business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Allegheny is currently involved in significant litigation that, if not decided favorably to Allegheny, could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Allegheny is currently involved in a number of lawsuits, some of which may be significant. Allegheny intends to vigorously pursue these matters, but the results of these lawsuits cannot be determined. Adverse outcomes in these lawsuits could require Allegheny to make significant expenditures and may have an adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. See “Environmental Matters” and “Legal Proceedings.” The Distribution Companies and other AE subsidiaries are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of their facilities. The Distribution Companies have been named as defendants in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants. In addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at Allegheny-owned facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. Allegheny’s management believes that any remaining asbestos at Allegheny-owned facilities is contained. The continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at Allegheny-owned facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against Allegheny. See “Legal Proceedings” and consolidated financial statement Note 19, “Asset Retirement Obligations (“ARO”).” Adverse investment returns and other factors may increase Allegheny’s pension liability and pension funding requirements. Substantially all of Allegheny’s employees are covered by a defined benefit pension plan. At present, the pension plan is underfunded in that the projected pension benefit obligation exceeds the aggregate fair value of plan assets. Recent results in the capital markets have increased the level of underfunding in the pension plan. Under applicable law, Allegheny is required to make cash contributions to the extent necessary to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by regulatory requirements. The amount of and timing of such required cash contribution(s) is based on an actuarial valuation of the plan. The funded status of the plan can be affected by investment returns on plan assets, discount rates, mortality rates of plan participants, pension reform legislation and a number of other factors. There can be no assurance that the value of Allegheny’s pension plan assets will be sufficient to cover future liabilities. Although Allegheny has made significant contributions to its pension plan in recent years, it is possible that Allegheny could incur a significant pension liability adjustment, or could be required to make significant additional cash contributions to its plan, which would reduce the cash available for business and other needs. Energy companies are subject to adverse publicity, which may make Allegheny vulnerable to negative regulatory and litigation outcomes. The energy sector has been the subject of negative publicity, most recently in the context of the dialogue regarding climate change. Allegheny has come under some scrutiny in this regard, and also has faced public opposition in connection with its transmission expansion initiatives, as well as certain of its demand-side conservation efforts and ordinary utility rate increases. Negative publicity of this nature may make legislators, regulators and courts less likely to take a favorable view of energy companies in general and/or Allegheny, specifically, which could cause them to make decisions or take actions that are adverse to Allegheny. 53 Table of Contents Risks Related to Allegheny’s Leverage and Financing Needs Allegheny is dependent on its ability to successfully access capital markets. Any inability to access capital may adversely affect Allegheny’s business. Allegheny relies on access to the capital markets as a source of liquidity and to satisfy any of its capital requirements that are not met by the cash flow from its operations. Capital market disruptions, decreases in market liquidity or the availability of credit, a downgrade in Allegheny’s credit ratings or other negative developments affecting Allegheny’s access to capital markets, could increase Allegheny’s cost of borrowing or could adversely affect its ability to access one or more financial markets. Causes of disruption to the capital markets could include, but are not limited to: • a recession, including the current recession, or other economic slowdown; • the bankruptcy of one or more energy companies or highly-leveraged companies; • significant increases in the prices for oil or other fuel; • a terrorist attack or threatened attacks; • a significant transmission failure; or • changes in technology. As widely reported, the financial markets and overall economies in the United States and abroad are currently undergoing a period of significant uncertainty and volatility. As a result, Allegheny’s management has placed increased emphasis on monitoring the risks associated with the current environment. At this point in time, there has not been a materially negative impact on Allegheny’s liquidity. However, there can be no assurance that the cost or availability of future borrowings or other financings, if any, will not be impacted by the ongoing or future capital market disruptions. AE’s and AE Supply’s revolving credit facilities currently are well-diversified, including more than 20 lenders at December 31, 2009. Additionally, TrAIL Company and Monongahela recently entered into separate revolving credit facilities, both of which also include a diverse group of lenders. Allegheny currently anticipates that these lenders will participate in future requests for funding. However, there can be no assurance that further deterioration in the credit markets and overall economy will not affect the ability of Allegheny’s lenders to meet their funding commitments. Additionally, Allegheny’s lenders have the ability to transfer their commitments to other institutions, and the risk that committed funds may not be available under distressed market conditions could be exacerbated to the extent that consolidation of the commitments under Allegheny’s facilities or among its lenders occurs. Allegheny’s leverage could adversely affect its ability to operate successfully and meet contractual obligations. Allegheny has substantial leverage. At December 31, 2009, Allegheny had approximately $4.56 billion of debt on a consolidated basis. Approximately $1.85 billion represented debt of AE Supply and AGC, $455 million represented debt of TrAIL Company, and the remainder constituted debt of one or more of the Distribution Companies or their subsidiaries. Allegheny’s leverage could have important consequences to it. For example, it could: • require Allegheny to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow to payments on its debt, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit Allegheny’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business, regulatory environment and the industry in which it operates; 54 Table of Contents • place Allegheny at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less leverage; • limit Allegheny’s ability to borrow additional funds; and • increase Allegheny’s vulnerability to general adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions. Covenants contained in certain of Allegheny’s financing agreements restrict its operating, financing and investing activities. Allegheny’s principal financing agreements contain restrictive covenants that limit its ability to, among other things: • borrow funds; • incur liens and guarantee debt; • enter into a merger or other change of control transaction (other than the proposed merger with First Energy, for which Allegheny has obtained the requisite consent of the relevant lenders); • make investments; • dispose of assets; and • pay dividends and other distributions on its equity securities. These agreements may limit Allegheny’s ability to implement strategic decisions, including its ability to access capital markets or sell assets without using the proceeds to reduce debt. In addition, Allegheny is required to meet certain financial tests under some of its loan agreements, including interest coverage ratios and leverage ratios. Allegheny’s failure to comply with the covenants contained in its financing agreements could result in an event of default, which may have an adverse effect on its financial condition. A downgrade or negative outlook in Allegheny’s credit ratings could increase its financing costs and the cost of maintaining certain contractual relationships. Allegheny cannot be assured that any of its current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a credit rating agency if, in the agency’s judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Among other reasons, Allegheny’s credit ratings may change as a result of the differing methodologies used by various rating agencies or as a result of changes to those methodologies. Any downgrade or negative outlook in Allegheny’s credit ratings may increase its financing costs and the cost of maintaining certain contractual relationships. Among other things, if Allegheny’s credit ratings were to decline, it would likely be required to deposit additional cash or cash-equivalent collateral with its hedging counterparties, which would have a negative impact on Allegheny’s liquidity. Thus, a downgrade or negative outlook in Allegheny’s credit ratings may have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. AE has no income or cash flow apart from dividends paid or other obligations due it from its subsidiaries. AE is a holding company and has no operations of its own. As a result, its ability to meet its financial obligations associated with its indebtedness and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent upon the earnings and cash flow of its operating subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to, or repay loans from, AE. AE’s subsidiaries are distinct entities that have no obligations to make dividends or other distributions to AE, and their ability to do so is contingent upon their respective earnings and a number of other business considerations, including in some circumstances regulatory constraints. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 55 Table of Contents 