ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS This item outlines specific risks that could affect the ability of our various businesses to compete, change our risk profile, or eventually impact our financial results. The risks we face generally are similar to those experienced, to varying degrees, by all financial services companies. Our strategies and management’s ability to react to changing competitive and economic environments have enabled us historically to compete effectively, manage risks to acceptable levels, and create industry leading profitability levels. However, our operating environment continues to evolve and new risks continue to emerge. To address that challenge we have established an enterprise-wide risk management committee that oversees processes for monitoring evolving risks and oversees various initiatives designed to manage and control our potential exposure. We have outlined potential risk factors below that we presently believe could be important to us; however, other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict with certainty all potential developments which could affect our financial performance. The following discussion highlights potential risks which could intensify over time or shift dynamically in a way that might change our risk profile. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report (including the material incorporated into this report), among the factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from our past results and from expectations are those discussed in this item. Forward-Looking Statements This report, including materials incorporated into it, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to our beliefs, plans, goals, expectations, and estimates. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not a representation of historical information but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “should,” “is likely,” “will,” “going forward,” and other expressions that indicate future events and trends identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are necessarily based upon estimates and assumptions that are inherently subject to significant business, operational, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond any company’s control, and many of which, with respect to future business decisions and actions (including acquisitions and divestitures), are subject to change. Examples of uncertainties and contingencies include, among other important factors: general and local economic and business conditions; expectations of and actual timing and amount of interest rate movements, including the slope of the yield curve, which can have a significant impact on a financial services institution; market and monetary fluctuations; inflation or deflation; investor responses to these conditions; the financial condition of borrowers and other counterparties; competition within and outside the financial services industry; geopolitical developments including possible terrorist activity; natural disasters; effectiveness of our hedging practices; technology; demand for our product offerings; new products and services in the industries in which we operate; and critical accounting estimates. 14 Other factors are those inherent in originating and servicing loans including prepayment risks, pricing concessions, fluctuation in U.S. housing prices, fluctuation of collateral values, and changes in customer profiles. Additionally, the actions of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and its affiliates, and other regulators; regulatory and judicial proceedings and changes in laws and regulations applicable to us; and our success in executing our business plans and strategies and managing the risks involved in the foregoing, could cause actual results to differ. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements that are made in this report or in any other statement, release, report, or filing from time to time. Actual results could differ because of several factors, including those presented below and in other sections of this report. Readers of this report should carefully consider the factors discussed in this Item below, among others, in evaluating forward-looking statements and assessing our prospects. Competition Risks Like all financial services companies, we compete for customers. Our primary areas of competition include: retail and commercial deposits and bank loans, wealth management, home mortgage loans and lines of credit, mortgage servicing, capital markets products and services, and other consumer and business financial products and services. Our competitors in these areas include national and state banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, trust companies, investment counseling firms, money market mutual funds, insurance companies and agencies, securities firms, mortgage banking companies, and other financial services companies that serve the markets which we serve. We expect that competition will continue to grow more intense with respect to most of our products and services. For additional information regarding competition for customers, refer to the “Competition” heading of Part I, Item 1 beginning on page 11 of this report. While we face competition for customers, we also compete for financial capital (see “Financing, Funding, and Liquidity Risks” beginning on page 18 of this report) and to acquire and retain the human capital we need to thrive. Some of the keys to our ability to manage our competitive challenges are: • Our leading position in many of our markets and business lines • Our historical growth and retention of consumer and business customer bases • Historically strong employee value and loyalty ratings and national workplace recognition resulting in attraction and retention of high performing employees Using those factors and others, we have focused on the delivery of products and services in a manner that maximizes the value our customers obtain from their relationships with us, and we have developed strategies that have enabled us to gain market share in our targeted markets over time. We also have developed strategies to attract and retain customers and talent that are displaced when competitors merge. Growth Risks Every organization faces risks associated with growth. Our growth in 2005 resulted primarily from a combination of: our national expansion strategy in banking; acquisition of customers from competitors that have merged with each other; and targeted non-bank business acquisitions. 15 Our national expansion strategy is primarily organic. Our strategy is to expand our banking business in selected national markets by building on our mortgage customer relationships in those markets. Our strategy is unusual in the financial services industry; many banks elect to become national in scope by acquiring large local and regional banks in targeted geographic areas. We believe our national expansion strategy should reduce some of the costs and risks associated with the acquisition model. The successful execution of our strategy depends upon a number of key elements, including: • our ability to successfully penetrate new markets at a reasonable cost and within a reasonable time frame; • our ability to cross-sell our home mortgage customers into bank products and services; • our ability to attract and retain commercial and other non-mortgage customers; • our ability to develop profitable customer relationships while expanding our existing information processing, technology, and other operational infrastructures effectively and efficiently; and • our ability to manage the liquidity and capital requirements associated with such growth. We have in place a number of strategies designed to achieve each of those elements. Our challenge is to execute those strategies and adjust them as conditions change. To the extent we engage in bank or non-bank business acquisitions, we face various risks associated with that practice, including: • our ability to integrate the acquired company into our operations quickly and cost-effectively; • our ability to integrate the name recognition and goodwill of the acquired company with our own; and, • our ability to retain customers and key employees of the acquired company. Credit Risks Like all other lenders, we face the risk that our customers may not repay their loans and that the realizable value of collateral may be insufficient to avoid a loss. In our business some level of credit loss is unavoidable and overall levels of credit loss can vary over time. Our ability to manage credit risks depends primarily upon our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and the value of collateral, including real estate. We control credit risk by diversifying our loan portfolio and by recording and managing an allowance for expected loan losses based on the factors mentioned above and in accordance with applicable accounting rules. We also record loan charge-offs in accordance with accounting and regulatory guidelines and rules. These guidelines and rules could change and cause charge-offs to increase for reasons related or unrelated to the underlying performance of our portfolio; this risk is shared with all financial institutions. The models and approaches we use to originate and manage loans are continually updated to take into account changes in the competitive environment, in real estate prices, and in the economy, among other things. Additional information concerning credit risks and our management of them is set forth under the captions “Credit Risk Management” beginning on page 29, “Foreclosure Reserves” beginning on page 43, and “Allowance for Loan Losses” beginning on page 44, of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition section of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the 16 material from that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report. Risk From Economic Downturns Delinquencies and credit losses generally increase during economic downturns due to an increase in liquidity problems for customers and downward pressure on collateral values. Likewise, demand for loans, deposit products, fixed income products, and financial services may decline during an economic downturn. Accordingly, an economic downturn (local, regional, or national) can hurt our financial performance in the form of higher loan losses, lower loan levels, lower deposit levels, and lower fees from transactions and services. These risks are faced by all financial services companies and we have in place processes and tools that we believe allow us to monitor and manage those risks. Hedge Risks In the normal course of our businesses, including (among others) banking, mortgage, and capital markets, we attempt to partially or fully hedge various financial risks. We do that primarily by using derivative instruments or by engaging in business activities that are countercyclical to the risks at issue. Our hedging activities are discussed in more detail in various places under the following captions of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition section of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report: “Risk Management,” beginning on page 23; and, “Critical Accounting Policies,” beginning on page 37. Hedging creates certain risks for us, including the risk that the other party to the hedge transaction will fail to perform (counterparty risk, which is a type of credit risk), and the risk that the hedge will not fully protect us from loss as intended (hedge failure risk). Although we actively manage those risks, unexpected counterparty failure or hedge failure could have a significant adverse effect on our liquidity and earnings. Reputation Risks Our ability to conduct and grow our businesses, and to obtain and retain customers, is highly dependent upon external perceptions of our business practices and our financial stability. Our reputation is, therefore, a key asset for us. Our reputation is affected principally by our own practices and how those practices are perceived and understood by others. Adverse perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors, or our industry as a whole, also may adversely impact our reputation. In addition, adverse perceptions relating to parties with whom we have important relationships may adversely impact our reputation. Damage to our reputation could hinder our ability to access the capital markets, could hamper our ability to attract new customers and retain existing ones, and could undermine our ability to attract and retain talented employees, among other things. Adverse impacts on our reputation, or the reputation of our industry, may also result in greater regulatory and/or legislative scrutiny, which may lead to laws or regulations that change or constrain our business or operations. Events that result in damage to our reputation also may increase our litigation risk. As with all other risks, we actively devote significant resources to safeguard our reputation. Senior management oversees processes for reputation risk monitoring, assessment, and management. 17 Operational Risks Our ability to grow is dependent in part upon our ability to create and maintain an appropriate operational and organizational infrastructure, manage expenses as we expand, and recruit and retain personnel with the ability to manage an increasingly complex business. Operational risk can arise in many ways, including: errors related to failed or inadequate processes; faulty or disabled computer systems; fraud, theft, physical security breaches, electronic data and related security breaches, or other criminal conduct by employees or third parties; and exposure to other external events. In addition, we outsource some of our operational functions to third parties; those third parties may experience similar errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. Failure to build and maintain the necessary operational infrastructure, or failure of our disaster preparedness plans if primary infrastructure components suffer damage, can lead to risk of loss of service to customers, legal actions, or noncompliance with applicable laws or regulatory standards. Operational risk is specifically managed through internal monitoring, measurement, and assessment by line management and oversight of processes by top management; regulatory guidance for mitigating operational risk is followed. Additional information concerning operational risks and our management of them appears under the caption “Operational Risk Management” beginning on page 29 of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition section of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report. Financing, Funding, and Liquidity Risks Management of liquidity and related risks is a key function for our business. Additional information concerning liquidity risk management is set forth under the caption “Liquidity Management” beginning on page 25 of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition section of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report. Our funding requirements currently are met principally by deposits, financing from other financial institutions, and financing using the capital markets. In general, the costs of our funding directly impact our costs of doing business and, therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial results. A number of factors could make such funding more difficult, more expensive, or unavailable on affordable terms, including, but not limited to, our financial results, organizational changes, adverse impacts on our reputation, changes in the activities of our business partners, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our loan portfolio or other assets, changes affecting our corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, ratings agency actions, general economic conditions, and the legal, regulatory, accounting, and tax environments governing our funding transactions. In addition, our ability to raise funds is strongly affected by the general state of the U.S. and world economies and financial markets, and may become increasingly difficult due to economic and other factors. We depend significantly on our ability to sell or securitize first and second mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit (which we refer to as HELOC). Those actions involve the sale of whole loans or of beneficial interests in loans. Although the market for loans is substantial, 18 if it experiences difficulties we may be unable to sell or securitize our mortgage or HELOC loans at all, or at favorable pricing levels. If we were unable to continue to sell or securitize our loans at current levels, we would seek alternative funding sources to fund loan originations and meet our other liquidity needs. If we were unable to find cost-effective and stable alternatives, that failure could negatively impact our liquidity and could potentially increase our cost of funds and lower our loan growth. When we sell or securitize mortgage and HELOC loans, we sometimes do so with limited or full recourse, which means, in effect, that we will take some or significant financial responsibility for the loan if it defaults. Additional information concerning these risks is set forth under the caption “Foreclosure Reserves” beginning on page 43 of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition section of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report. In many instances, we sell or securitize loans with no recourse. However, if a loan sold with no recourse defaults, we could still bear responsibility to the buyer if the loan did not conform to representations we made to the buyer at the time of sale. We manage that risk of non-conformity through origination and documentation controls and procedures. Rating agencies assign credit ratings to issuers and their debt. In that role, agencies directly affect the availability and cost of our funding. The Corporation and the Bank currently receive ratings from several rating entities for unsecured borrowings. A rating below investment grade typically reduces availability and increases the cost of market-based funding. A debt rating of Baa3 or higher by Moody’s Investors Service, or BBB- or higher by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, is considered investment grade for many purposes. Currently, all three rating agencies rate the unsecured senior debt of the Corporation and the Bank as investment grade. Because we depend on institutional borrowing and the capital markets for funding and capital, we could experience reduced liquidity and increased cost of funding if our debt ratings were lowered, particularly if lowered below investment grade. Please note that a credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities, is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time, and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Regulatory laws or rules that establish minimum capital levels, regulate deposit insurance, and govern related funding matters for banks could be changed in a manner that could increase our overall cost of capital and thus reduce our earnings. Interest Rate and Yield Curve Risks A significant portion of our business involves borrowing and lending money. Accordingly, changes in interest rates directly impact our revenues and expenses, and potentially could compress our net interest margin. We actively manage our balance sheet to control the risks of a reduction in net interest margin brought about by ordinary fluctuations in rates. Additional information concerning those risks and our management of them appears under the caption “Interest Rate Risk Management” beginning on page 23 of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition section of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report. Our mortgage lending and servicing businesses also are affected by changes in interest rates. Generally, when rates increase, demand for mortgage loans and HELOC decrease (and our revenues from new originations fall), and when rates decrease, demand increases (and our 19 origination revenues increase). In a contrary fashion, when interest rates increase, the value of mortgage servicing rights (MSR) that we retain increases, and when rates decline the value of MSR declines. Within our mortgage businesses, therefore, there is a partial natural hedge against ordinary interest rate changes. Additional information concerning those risks and our management of them appears under the caption “Mortgage Servicing Rights and Other Related Retained Interests” beginning on page 37 of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition section of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report. Our mortgage lending business is affected by changes in interest rates in another manner. During the period of loan origination and prior to the loan’s sale in the secondary market (when loans are in the “pipeline” and the “warehouse”), we are exposed to the risk of interest rate changes for those loans as to which we have agreed to lock in the customer’s mortgage rate. We manage that risk through hedging activities and other methods. Additional information concerning those risks and our management of them appears under the caption “Pipeline and Warehouse” beginning on page 42 of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition section of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report. Like all financial services companies, we face the risks of abnormalities in the yield curve. The yield curve simply shows the interest rates applicable to short and long term debt. The curve is steep when short-term rates are much lower than long-term rates; it is flat when short-term rates are equal, or nearly equal, to long-term rates; and it is inverted when short-term rates exceed long-term rates. Historically, the yield curve normally is relatively steep. However, during most of 2005 the yield curve has been relatively flat. A flat or inverted yield curve tends to decrease net interest margin, as the warehouse yields narrow relative to their short-term funding sources, and it tends to reduce demand for long-term debt, adversely impacting the revenues of our capital markets business. Lastly, expectations by the market regarding the direction of future interest rate movements, particularly long-term rates, can impact the demand for long-term debt which in turn can impact the revenues of our capital markets business. That risk is most apparent during times when strong expectations have not yet been reflected in market rates, or when expectations are especially weak or uncertain. Securities Inventories Risks Our capital markets business buys and sells various types of securities for its customers. In the course of that business we hold inventory positions and are exposed to certain risks of market fluctuations. In addition, we are exposed to credit risk associated with debt securities. We manage the risks of holding inventories of securities through certain policies and procedures. Additional information concerning those risks and our management of them appears under the caption “Market Risk Management” beginning on page 29 of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition section of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report, and in the “Credit Risks” discussion beginning on page 16 of this report. 20 Regulatory and Legal Risks We operate in a heavily regulated industry and therefore are subject to many banking, deposit, insurance, brokerage, and consumer lending regulations in addition to the rules applicable to all companies publicly traded in the U.S. securities markets. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in financial, structural, and operational penalties. In addition, efforts to comply with applicable regulations may increase our costs and/or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. See “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this report, beginning on page 3 above, for additional information concerning financial industry regulations. Federal and state regulations significantly limit the types of activities in which we, as a financial institution, may engage. In addition, we are subject to a wide array of other regulations that govern other aspects of how we conduct our business, such as in the areas of employment and intellectual property. Federal and state legislative and regulatory authorities occasionally consider changing these regulations or adopting new ones. Such actions could limit the amount of interest or fees we can charge, could restrict our ability to collect loans or realize on collateral, or could materially affect us in other ways. Additional federal and state consumer protection regulations also could expand the privacy protections afforded to customers of financial institutions, restricting our ability to share or receive customer information and increasing our costs. In addition, changes in accounting rules can significantly affect how we record and report assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and earnings. We also face litigation risks from customers (singly or in class actions) and from federal or state regulators. Litigation is an unavoidable part of doing business in our industry, and we manage those risks through internal controls, personnel training, insurance, litigation management, and other means. However, the commencement, outcome, and magnitude of litigation cannot be predicted or controlled with certainty. Risks of Expense Control Expenses and other costs directly affect our earnings. Our ability to successfully manage expenses is important to our long-term survival. Many factors can influence the amount of our expenses, as well as how quickly they grow. As our businesses change or expand, additional expenses can arise from using outsourced services, asset purchases, structural reorganization, evolving business strategies, and changing regulations, among other things. Geographic Risks Our mortgage and capital markets businesses are national in scope. Our national expansion strategy is making our banking business national as well. At present, however, a majority of our banking business is grounded in, and depends upon, the major Tennessee markets. As a result, to a greater degree than many of our competitors that operate nationally or in much broader regions, our banking business currently is exposed to adverse economic, regulatory, natural disaster, and other risks that might primarily impact Tennessee and the mid-South region of the U.S. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 