ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in Wachovia’s securities may involve risks due to the nature of the businesses we engage in and activities related to those businesses. The following are the most significant risks associated with those businesses or activities: Business risk. Wachovia’s business model is based on a diversified mix of businesses that provide a broad range of financial products and services, delivered through multiple distribution channels. Wachovia’s diversified businesses are subject to a wide range of competition, ranging from smaller community banking institutions, financial advisors and investment advisors to large, diversified, multi-national financial services providers. Risks associated with our business model include: • the timely development of competitive new products and services by Wachovia and the acceptance of these products and services by new and existing customers; • the willingness of customers to accept third party products marketed by Wachovia; • the willingness of customers to substitute competitors’ products and services for Wachovia’s products and services and vice versa; • the impact of changes in financial services’ laws and regulations (including laws concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance); • technological changes; and • changes in consumer spending and saving habits. Credit risk. Wachovia is one of the nation’s largest lenders, and the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. Credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a borrower’s ability to meet its financial obligations under agreed upon terms. Risks associated with our credit quality include: • the strength of the United States economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which Wachovia conducts operations may be different than expected resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including the resultant effect on Wachovia’s loan portfolio and allowance for loan losses; and • adverse changes in the financial performance and/or condition of Wachovia’s borrowers which could impact repayment of such borrowers’ outstanding loans. Market risk. Wachovia’s businesses are subject to market risk. The components of market risk are interest rate risk inherent in our balance sheet, price risk in our principal investing portfolio and market value risk in our trading portfolios. Risks associated with managing market risk include: • the effects of, and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws, including interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board; • inflation, interest rate, market and monetary fluctuations; and • adverse conditions in the stock market, the public debt market and other capital markets (including changes in interest rate conditions) and the impact of such conditions on Wachovia’s capital markets and capital management activities, including, without limitation, Wachovia’s mergers and acquisition advisory business, equity and debt underwriting activities, private equity investment activities, derivative securities activities, investment and wealth management advisory businesses, and brokerage activities. Operational risk. Operational risk is the risk of loss from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. Risks associated with operational risk include: • unanticipated regulatory or judicial proceedings or rulings; • matters impacting our business or ethical reputation; • the impact of changes in accounting principles; • the impact on Wachovia’s businesses of various domestic or international military or terrorist activities or conflicts; and • Wachovia’s success at managing all of these risks. Acquisitions and divestitures. When consistent with our overall business strategy, we may consider disposing of certain assets, branches, subsidiaries or lines of business. We continue to routinely explore acquisition opportunities in areas that would complement our core businesses, and frequently conduct due diligence activities in connection with possible acquisitions. As a result, acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations frequently take place and future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities could occur. In the event Wachovia engages in acquisitions or divestitures, there are risks involved. Risks associated with acquisitions and divestitures include: • the risk that the businesses proposed to be acquired or divested will not be integrated successfully or such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; • the risk that expected revenue synergies and cost savings from the businesses proposed to be acquired may not be fully realized or realized within the expected time frames; • the risk that revenues following the proposed acquisition may be lower than expected; and • the risk that deposit attrition, operating costs, customer loss and business disruption following the proposed acquisition, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, may be greater than expected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 