1A. Risk Factors – Environmental Liabilities.” 13 Segment Data Our business segment data may be found in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Additional Information About Us We make the following materials available free of charge through our website at www.winthropreit.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act: · our annual reports on Form 10-K and all amendments thereto; · our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and all amendments thereto; · our current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments thereto; and · various other filings that we make with the SEC. We also make the following materials available free of charge through our website at www.winthropreit.com: · Audit Committee Charter; · Compensation Committee Charter; · Conflicts Committee Charter; · Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter; · Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; and · Corporate Governance Guidelines. We will provide a copy of the foregoing materials without charge to anyone who makes a written request to our Investor Relations Department, c/o FUR Advisors, LLC, 7 Bulfinch Place, Suite 500, P.O. Box 9507, Boston, Massachusetts 02114. We also intend to promptly disclose on our website any amendments that we make to, or waivers for our trustees or executive officers that we grant from, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. NYSE Certification As required by applicable New York Stock Exchange listing rules, on May 9, 2007, following our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer submitted to the New York Stock Exchange a certification that he was not aware of any violation by us of New York Stock Exchange corporate governance listing standards. 14 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We, our assets and the entities in which we invest are subject to a number of risks customary for REITs, property owners, loan originators and holders and equity investors as well as a number of risks involved in our investment policy that not all REITs may have. Although this section is divided into a number of subheadings, it should be read in its entirety and although certain risks are more likely to occur with respect to certain types of assets in which we invest, and have been included under such heading, such risks may be applicable to other types of assets in which we invest or in which we may invest in the future. Accordingly, this section should be read in its entirety to fully understand the risks applicable to an investment in us. General Risks Relating to Us and Our Business We have grown rapidly since January 1, 2004. We may not be able to maintain this rapid growth and our failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced rapid growth in recent years, increasing our total assets from approximately $146,838,000 at December 31, 2003 to approximately $745,447,000 at December 31, 2007. We may not be able to maintain a similar rate of growth in the future or manage our growth effectively. In fact, our assets remained relatively constant during 2007 as we elected to limit our investments due primarily to the high cost of real estate assets and the capital market crisis limiting debt investment opportunities. Our failure to continue to grow our assets may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations, our stock price and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We may not be able to invest our cash reserves in suitable investments. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $36,654,000 of cash and cash equivalents available for investment. Our ability to generate increased revenues is dependent upon our ability to invest these funds as well as additional funds which we may raise or borrow in real estate related assets that will ultimately generate favorable returns. We are subject to significant competition and we may not compete successfully. See “Item 1. Business-Competition” for information relating to this risk. Investing through ventures presents additional risks. Our investments in entities which we do not control, including ventures such as Concord and Marc Realty, present additional risks such as our having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest or our becoming involved in disputes or competing with those persons. In addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. Investing in private companies involves specific risks. We have held ownership interests in, and may acquire additional ownership interests in, private companies not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Investments in private businesses involve a higher degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and accordingly should be considered speculative. There is generally no publicly available information about these private companies, and we will rely significantly on the due diligence of our advisor to obtain information in connection with our investment decisions. We may acquire or sell additional assets or properties. Our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. We may acquire or sell properties or acquire or sell other real estate companies when we believe that an acquisition or sale is consistent with our business objective. We may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or sales. Also, we may not succeed in leasing newly acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover the costs of acquisition, debt service and operation. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions into our portfolio may prove costly or time-consuming and could consume a disproportionate share of management's and/or our advisor’s attention. 15 Many of our investments are illiquid, and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions, which may result in losses to us. Many of our investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to sell properties and purchase other properties, securities and debt promptly in response to a change in economic or other conditions may be limited. The requirements of the Code with regard to REITs also places limits on our ability to sell properties held for fewer than four years. These considerations could make it difficult for us to dispose of properties, even if a disposition were in the best interest of our shareholders. In addition, we invest in REIT equity interests that are not publicly traded which limits our ability to dispose of such assets. As a result, our ability to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which may result in losses to us. We leverage our portfolio, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution. We seek to leverage our portfolio through borrowings. Our return on investments and cash available for distribution to holders of our preferred and common shares may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financings to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets. Our debt service payments reduce the cash available for distributions to holders of preferred and common shares. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or forced sale to satisfy our debt obligations. A decrease in the value of the assets may lead to a requirement that we repay certain borrowings. We may not have the funds available, or be able to arrange for refinancings, to satisfy such repayments. We may change our investment and operational policies. We may change our investment and operational policies, including our policies with respect to investments, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, at any time without the consent of our shareholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the types of investments described in this filing. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could adversely affect our share price and our ability to make distributions. Interest rate fluctuations may reduce the spread we earn on our interest-earning investments and may reduce our investment return. Market risk is the exposure to loss resulting from changes in interest rates and equity prices. Although we seek to finance our assets on a match-funded basis and mitigate the risk associated with future interest rate volatility, we are subject to credit risk and interest rate risk with respect to our investments in loan assets and loan securities that are not match-funded. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. Our interest rate risk sensitive assets, liabilities and related derivative positions are generally held for non-trading purposes. As of December 31, 2007, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates applied to our variable rate assets would increase our annual interest income by approximately $4,534,000, offset by an increase in our interest expense of approximately $3,314,000 on our variable rate liabilities after the impact of our interest rate swaps. Similarly, a hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would decrease our annual interest income by the same net amount. 16 We and Concord engage in hedging transactions that may limit gains or result in losses. We and Concord use derivatives to hedge our respective liabilities and this has certain risks, including: · losses on a hedge position have in the past and may in the future reduce the cash available for distribution to us as a partner in Concord and to our shareholders and such losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments; · counterparties to a hedging arrangement could default on their obligations; and · we and Concord may have to pay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs. Our Board of Trustees has authorized our advisor to use interest rate swaps, the purchase or sale of interest rate collars, caps or floors, options, mortgage derivatives and other hedging instruments in order to hedge as much of the interest rate risk as it determines is in the best interest of our shareholders, given the cost of such hedges and the need to maintain our status as a REIT. We may use these hedging instruments in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. A hedge may not be effective in eliminating all of the risks inherent in any particular position. Our profitability may be adversely affected as a result of the use of derivatives. We must manage our investments in a manner that allows us to rely on an exemption from registration under The Investment Company Act in order to avoid the consequences of regulation under that Act. We intend to operate so that we are exempt from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Therefore, the assets that we may invest in, or acquire, are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. If we are required to make investments in order to be exempt from registration, such investments may not represent an optimum use of our capital when compared to other available investments. We may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. At such time as we utilize our cash reserves, we will be dependent primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. This is because one of the requirements for a REIT is that it distribute 90% of its net taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. There is also a separate requirement to either distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax. Our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments as well as the general condition of the capital markets. We and other companies in the real estate industry have experienced limited availability of financing from time to time. Although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we seek to make in the foreseeable future, requisite financing may not be available on acceptable terms. We have significant distribution obligations to holders of our Series B-1 preferred shares. The provisions of our Series B-1 preferred shares currently require us to make annual distributions presently aggregating approximately $6,127,000 before any distributions may be made on our common shares. Our ratio of total debt to total entity value may increase. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $236,925,000 of mortgage loans payable and $98,266,000 in liquidation value of Series B-1 preferred shares which are included as debt for financial statement purposes. Our ratio of this debt to total entity value was approximately 41.8%. When we say “entity value” we mean market equity value of our common and preferred shares plus this debt. In the future, we may incur additional debt to finance acquisitions, property developments or ventures and thus increase our ratio of total debt to total entity value. If our level of indebtedness increases, it may increase the risk of default on our obligations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in a rising interest rate environment the cost of our existing floating rate debt and any new debt or other market rate securities or instruments may increase. 17 Covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to make future investments. The mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property. Our credit facility contains, and other loans that we may obtain in the future may contain, customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including a limitation on our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense and fixed charges, and a requirement for us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. Our ability to borrow under our credit facility is subject to compliance with certain other covenants. In addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources which may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms. Additionally, our ability to satisfy current or prospective lenders’ insurance requirements may be adversely affected should lenders insist upon insurance coverage against acts of terrorism not available to us in the marketplace on commercially reasonable terms. We rely on debt financing, including borrowings under our credit facility, issuances of unsecured debt and debt secured by individual properties, to finance our acquisition activities and for working capital. If we are unable to obtain debt financing from these or other sources, or to refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we breach covenants in our debt agreements, the lenders can declare a default and, if the debt is secured, exercise their remedies including seeking to foreclose on the collateral securing the defaulted loan. Future issuances and sales of equity or debt interests pursuant to an outstanding registration statement may affect the market price of our common shares. We currently have an effective “shelf” registration statement on file covering the issuance, from time to time, of up to $256,388,000 of our common shares, preferred shares and/or debt securities. The registration statement also covers the resale by certain selling shareholders of up to 23,222,223 common shares. The actual issuance of additional common shares or sale of these or other large holdings of common shares may decrease the market price of our common shares. We have also agreed to file a registration statement covering the resale of 3,522,566 common shares which were issued in a privately negotiated transaction in 2005. If we issue preferred equity or debt we may be exposed to additional restrictive covenants and limitations on our operating flexibility, which could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. If we decide to issue preferred equity or debt in the future, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Holders of preferred equity or debt may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to: the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to require approval to sell assets. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common shares. We, and indirectly our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Our due diligence may not reveal all of the liabilities associated with a proposed investment and may not reveal other weaknesses. Before making an investment in an operating property, loan asset or loan security, our advisor assesses the value of the operating property or, in the case of a loan asset or loan security, the value of the assets underlying the loan or loan security. Further, in entering into a venture or making a loan or acquiring a loan security, our advisor assesses the strength and skills of such entity's management and other factors that it believes are material to the performance of the investment. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, our advisor relies on the resources available to it and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties including, when available, audited financial statements prepared by independent accountants. There can be no assurance that its due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that the investment will be successful. 18 We may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates. Although we believe that we have been and will remain organized and have operated and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we cannot assure this result. Qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. Our qualification as a REIT also depends on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions might change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT. If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and certain relief provisions do not apply, we would not be able to deduct distributions to our shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal corporate income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income. If we had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to our shareholders would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to pay dividends to our shareholders. In addition, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost and thus our cash available for distribution to our shareholders would be reduced in each of those years, unless we were entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions. Although we currently intend to operate in a manner designed to allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations might cause us to revoke the REIT election. In that event, we and our shareholders would no longer be entitled to the federal income tax benefits applicable to a REIT. Pursuant to an agreement with one of our common shareholders, we may be liable to pay damages to that shareholder in the event we fail to maintain our status as a REIT. In order to maintain our status as a REIT, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions. As a REIT, we generally must distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to our shareholders. To the extent that we satisfy the REIT distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. From time to time, we may have taxable income greater than our cash flow available for distribution to our shareholders (for example, due to substantial non-deductible cash outlays, such as capital expenditures or principal payments on debt). If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or find alternative sources of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid income and excise taxes in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our operating costs and diminish our rate of growth. Factors that may cause us to lose our New York Stock Exchange listing. We might lose our listing on the NYSE depending on a number of factors, including failure to qualify as a REIT, or our not meeting the NYSE’s requirements, including those relating to the number of shareholders and the amount and composition of our assets. 19 Ownership limitations in our Bylaws may adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. Our bylaws contain an ownership limitation that is designed to prohibit any transfer that would result in our being "closely-held" within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code. This ownership limitation, which may be waived by our Board of Trustees, generally prohibits ownership, directly or indirectly, by any single shareholder of more than 9.8% of the common shares. Our Board of Trustees has waived this ownership limitation on a number of occasions. Unless the Board of Trustees waives the restrictions or approves a bylaw amendment, common shares owned by a person or group of persons in excess of 9.8% of our outstanding common shares are not entitled to any voting rights, are not considered outstanding for quorum or voting purposes, and are not entitled to dividends, interest or any other distributions with respect to the common shares. The ownership limit may have the effect of inhibiting or impeding a change of control or a tender offer for our common shares. We may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic changes. Adverse economic conditions in the United States in general and particularly in areas where the properties underlying our investments are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors) and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, office and industrial properties) may have an adverse affect on the value of our properties. A material decline in demand, or the ability of tenants to pay rent, for office and industrial space may result in a material decline in our cash available for distribution. Risks Relating to our Operating Properties Risks incidental to the ownership and operation of real estate assets. The value of an investment in us depends upon our financial performance and the value of our operating properties, both those presently held as well as future investments, which are subject to the risks normally associated with the ownership, operation and disposal of real estate properties and real estate related assets, including: · changes in the general and local economic climate; · competition from other properties; · changes in interest rates and the availability of financing; · the cyclical nature of the real estate industry and possible oversupply of, or reduced demand for, space in the markets in which our properties are located; · the attractiveness of our properties to tenants and purchasers; · how well we manage our properties; · changes in market rental rates and our ability to rent space on favorable terms; 20 · the financial condition of our tenants and borrowers including bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants and borrowers; · the need to periodically renovate, repair and re-lease space and the costs thereof; · increases in maintenance, insurance and operating costs; · civil unrest, armed conflict or acts of terrorism against the United States; and · earthquakes and other natural disasters or acts of God that may result in uninsured losses. In addition, applicable federal, state and local regulations, zoning and tax laws and potential liability under environmental and other laws may affect real estate values. Further, throughout the period that we own real property, regardless of whether or not a property is producing any income, we must make significant expenditures, including those for property taxes, maintenance, insurance and related charges and debt service. The risks associated with real estate investments may adversely affect our operating results and financial position, and therefore the funds available for distribution to you as dividends. We face a number of significant issues with respect to the properties we own which may adversely affect our financial performance. Leasing Issues. With respect to our properties, we are subject to the risk that, upon expiration, leases may not be renewed, the space may not be relet, or the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of any required renovations, may be less favorable than the current lease terms. This risk is substantial with respect to our net lease properties as single tenants lease 100% of each property. Twenty of our properties, containing an aggregate of approximately 2,947,000 square feet of space are net leased to seven different tenants. Leases accounting for approximately 2% of the aggregate 2006 annualized base rents from our properties, representing approximately 1% of the net rentable square feet at the properties, expired without penalty or premium through the end of 2007, and leases accounting for approximately 3% of aggregate 2007 annualized base rent from the properties, representing approximately 2% of the net rentable square feet at the properties, are scheduled to expire in 2008. Other leases grant tenants early termination rights upon payment of a termination penalty. Lease expirations will require us to locate new tenants and negotiate replacement leases with new tenants. The costs for tenant improvements, tenant concessions and leasing commissions, with respect to new leases, are traditionally greater than costs relating to renewal leases. If we are unable to promptly relet or renew leases for all or a substantial portion of the space subject to expiring leases, or if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, our revenue and net income could be adversely affected. Financial Condition of Tenant. A tenant may experience a downturn in its business, which could result in the tenant's inability to make rental payments when due. In addition, a tenant may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such tenant's lease and cause a reduction in our cash flow. If this were to occur at a net lease property, the entire property would become vacant. We cannot evict a tenant solely because of its bankruptcy. A court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject and terminate its lease. In such a case, our claim against the tenant for past due rent and unpaid future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In any event, it is unlikely that a bankrupt tenant will pay in full the amount it owes us under a lease. The loss of rental payments from tenants could adversely affect our cash flows and operating results Tenant Concentration. Our Jacksonville property (previously leased to Winn-Dixie) has two tenants that occupy 78% of the space at the property. Our properties at 550-650 Corporetum and 701 Arboretum (Chicago, Illinois market), each have two tenants who occupy 49% and 67% of the space at the property, respectively. Our Ontario property in which we hold an 80% interest has two tenants that occupy 26% of the space at the property. We believe that the relocation or future financial weakness of these tenants would not have a material adverse affect on our rental revenue. With respect to the net lease properties, leases with Viacom Inc. and, The Kroger Co. represent approximately 34% and 20%, respectively, of the total rentable square footage of the net lease properties. Accordingly, the financial weakness of either of these tenants could negatively impact our operations and cash flows. 21 We may be unable to refinance our existing debt or obtain favorable refinancing terms. We are subject to the normal risks associated with debt and preferred share financings, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest on debt and distributions to holders of preferred shares and the risk that indebtedness on our properties, or unsecured indebtedness, will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due, or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of such indebtedness. This risk is exacerbated by the recent capital market crisis which has resulted in tightened lending requirements for real estate related assets. If we were unable to refinance indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us, which could have a material adverse affect on us and our ability to pay distributions to our holders of preferred and common shares. Furthermore, if a property is mortgaged or a loan pledged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet the debt payments, the lender could foreclose upon the property or the loan, appoint a receiver or obtain an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of revenues and asset value to us. Foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements. Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We may not be able to insure our properties against losses of a catastrophic nature, such as terrorist acts, earthquakes and floods, because such losses are uninsurable or are not economically insurable. We will use our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance coverage on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. This may result in insurance coverage that, in the event of a substantial loss, would not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of the lost investment and also may result in certain losses being totally uninsured. Inflation, changes in building codes, zoning or other land use ordinances, environmental considerations, lender imposed restrictions and other factors also might make it not feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace the property after such property has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds, if any, received by us might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to such property. With respect to our net lease properties, under the lease agreements for such properties, the tenant is required to adequately insure the property, but their failure or inability to have adequate coverage for catastrophic losses may adversely affect our economic position with respect to such property. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unanticipated expenditures that adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for "public accommodations" and "commercial facilities," but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require, for example, removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. Government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. Although we believe that our properties are in compliance with the ADA, it is possible that we may incur additional expenditures which, if substantial, could adversely affect our results of operations, our financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to you. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by local, state and federal governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have an adverse affect on our ability to pay dividends to you. Additionally, failure to comply with any of these requirements could result in the imposition of fines by such governmental authorities or awards of damages to private litigants, or both. While we intend to acquire only properties that we believe are currently in substantial compliance with all regulatory requirements, these requirements could change or new requirements could be imposed which would require significant unanticipated expenditures by us and could have an adverse affect on our cash flow and ability to pay dividends. 22 We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. The obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of complying with future legislation, may adversely affect our operating costs. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on or under the property. Environmental laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances and whether or not such substances originated from the property. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to remediate such property properly, may adversely affect our ability to borrow by using such property as collateral. We maintain insurance related to potential environmental issues on our currently non-net leased properties which may not be adequate to cover all possible contingencies. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for releases of hazardous materials, including asbestos-containing materials ("ACMs") into the environment. In addition, third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with exposure to released ACMs or other hazardous materials. Environmental laws may also impose restrictions on the use or transfer of property, and these restrictions may require expenditures and/or affect the value of such property. In connection with the ownership and operation of any of our properties, we and the lessees of these properties may be liable for any such environmental costs. The cost of defending against claims of liability or remediating contaminated property and the cost of complying with environmental laws could materially adversely affect our ability to pay amounts due on indebtedness and dividends to our shareholders. This risk is mitigated for our net lease properties as the lease agreements for those properties require the tenant to comply with all environmental laws and indemnify us for any loss relating to environmental liabilities, which may be affected by the financial ability of the tenant to discharge its responsibility. We have no reason to believe that any environmental contamination or violation of any applicable law, statute, regulation or ordinance governing hazardous or toxic substances has occurred or is occurring, except for the property located in Jacksonville, Florida, previously net leased to Winn-Dixie. Given the nature of the contamination at the Jacksonville property and the fact that a substantial portion of the costs associated with the remediation are covered by a state sponsored plan, we do not believe the costs to be borne by us will be material. Prior to undertaking major transactions, we hire independent environmental experts to review specific properties. Our advisor also endeavors to protect us from acquiring contaminated properties or properties with significant compliance problems by obtaining site assessments and property reports at the time of acquisition when it deems such investigations to be appropriate. There is no guarantee, however, that these measures will successfully insulate us from all such liabilities. Risks Relating to our Loan Assets and Loan Securities We invest in loan assets and loan securities both directly and indirectly through Concord. All references in this “Risks Relating to our Loan Assets” section to we, us or the like shall, except as expressly provided otherwise, include us and Concord. The mortgage loans we invest in are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss. We seek to make commercial mortgage loans directly and indirectly that are secured by income producing property. These loans are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure as well as risk associated with the capital markets. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix; success of tenant businesses; property management decisions; property location and condition; competition from comparable types of properties; changes in laws that adversely affect operating expense such as increases in real estate tax rates or limit rents that may be charged; the need to address environmental contamination at the property; the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments; declines in regional or local real estate values; declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates; increases in interest rates and other operating expenses; changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation; acts of God; terrorism; social unrest; and civil disturbances. 23 In the event of a default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral, including the overall financial condition of the tenant, and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse affect on our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the loan will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process which could negatively affect our return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. The subordinate loan assets we invest in may be subject to risks relating to the structure and terms of the transactions, and there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our subordinate notes, which may result in losses to us. We invest in loan assets that are subordinate in payment and collateral to more senior loans. If a borrower defaults or declares bankruptcy, after the more senior obligations are satisfied, there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our subordinate notes. Because each transaction is privately negotiated, subordinate loan assets can vary in their structural characteristics and lender rights. Our rights to control the default or bankruptcy process following a default will vary from transaction to transaction. The subordinate loan assets that we invest in may not give us the right to demand foreclosure as a subordinate debtholder. Furthermore, the presence of intercreditor agreements may limit our ability to amend the loan documents, assign the loans, accept prepayments, exercise remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase the time needed for us to acquire possession of underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. We invest in subordinate mortgage-backed securities which are subject to a greater risk of loss than senior securities. We may hold the most junior class of mortgage-backed securities which are subject to the first risk of loss if any losses are realized on the underlying mortgage loans. We invest in a variety of subordinate loan securities, and sometimes hold a "first loss" subordinate holder position. The ability of a borrower to make payments on the loan underlying these securities is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower since the underlying loans are generally non-recourse in nature. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve funds, letters of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we will not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities purchased. Expenses of enforcing the underlying mortgage loans (including litigation expenses), expenses of protecting the properties securing the mortgage loans and the liens on the mortgaged properties, and, if such expenses are advanced by the servicer of the mortgage loans, interest on such advances will also be allocated to such "first loss" securities prior to allocation to more senior classes of securities issued in the securitization. Prior to the reduction of distributions to more senior securities, distributions to the "first loss" securities may also be reduced by payment of compensation to any servicer engaged to enforce a defaulted mortgage loan. Such expenses and servicing compensation may be substantial and consequently, in the event of a default or loss on one or more mortgage loans contained in a securitization, we may not recover our investment. If credit spreads widen, the value of Concord’s assets may suffer. The value of Concord’s loan securities is dependent upon the yield demanded on these loan securities by the market based on the underlying credit. A large supply of these loan securities combined with reduced demand will generally cause the market to require a higher yield on these loan securities, resulting in a higher, or "wider," spread over the benchmark rate of such loan securities. Under such conditions, the value of loan securities in our portfolio would tend to decline. Such changes in the market value of our portfolio may adversely affect our net equity through their impact on unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale loan securities, and therefore our cash flow since we would be unable to realize gains through sale of such loan securities. Also, they could adversely affect our ability to borrow and access capital. 24 The value of our investments in mortgage loans, mezzanine loans and participation interests in mortgage and mezzanine loans is also subject to changes in credit spreads. The majority of the loans we invest in are floating rate loans whose value is based on a market credit spread to LIBOR. The value of the loans is dependent upon the yield demanded by the market based on their credit. The value of our portfolio would tend to decline should the market require a higher yield on such loans, resulting in the use of a higher spread over the benchmark rate. Any credit or spread losses incurred with respect to our loan portfolio would affect us in the same way as similar losses on our loan securities portfolio as described above. Concord prices its assets based on its assumptions about future credit spreads for financing of those assets. Concord has obtained, and may obtain in the future, longer term financing for its assets using structured financing techniques such as CDOs. Such issuances entail interest rates set at a spread over a certain benchmark, such as the yield on United States Treasury obligations, swaps or LIBOR. If the spread that investors are paying on structured finance vehicles over the benchmark widens and the rates Concord charges on its securitized assets are not increased accordingly, this may reduce Concord’s income or cause losses. Prepayments can increase, adversely affecting yields on our investments. The value of our assets may be affected by an increase in the rate of prepayments on the loans underlying our loan assets and loan securities. The rate of prepayment on loans is influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control and consequently such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. In periods of declining real estate loan interest rates, prepayments of real estate loans generally increase. If general interest rates decline as well, the proceeds of such prepayments received during such periods are likely to be reinvested by us in assets yielding less than the yields on the loans that were prepaid. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios we may fail to recoup fully our cost of acquisition of certain investments. Concord may not be able to issue CDO securities, which may require Concord to seek more costly financing for its real estate loan assets or to liquidate assets. Concord has and may continue to seek to finance its loan assets on a long-term basis through the issuance of CDOs. Prior to a new investment grade CDO issuance, there is a period during which real estate loan assets are identified and acquired for inclusion in a CDO, known as the repurchase facility accumulation period. During this period, Concord authorizes the acquisition of loan assets and loan securities under one or more repurchase facilities from repurchase counterparties. The repurchase counterparties then purchase the loan assets and loan securities and hold them for later repurchase by Concord. As a result, Concord is subject to the risk that it will not be able to acquire, during the period that its repurchase facilities are available, a sufficient amount of loan assets and loan securities to support the execution of an investment grade CDO issuance. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make it difficult, if not impossible, for Concord to pursue a CDO when it does have a sufficient pool of collateral. If Concord is unable to issue a CDO to finance these assets or if doing so is not economical, Concord may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate the assets at a price that could result in a loss of all or a portion of the cash and other collateral backing its purchase commitment. Concord’s repurchase facilities and its CDO financing agreements may limit its ability to make investments. In order for Concord to borrow money to make investments under its repurchase facilities, its repurchase counterparties have the right to review the potential investment for which Concord is seeking financing. Concord may be unable to obtain the consent of its repurchase counterparties to make certain investments in which case Concord may be unable to obtain alternate financing for that investment. Concord’s repurchase counterparties consent rights with respect to its repurchase facility may limit Concord’s ability to execute its business strategy. 25 The repurchase agreements that Concord uses to finance its investments may require it to provide additional collateral. If the market value of the loan assets and loan securities pledged or sold by Concord to repurchase counterparties decline in value, which decline is determined, in most cases, by the repurchase counterparties, Concord may be required by the repurchase counterparties to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced. Concord may not have the funds available to pay down its debt, which could result in defaults. Posting additional collateral to support its repurchase facilities will reduce Concord’s liquidity and limit its ability to leverage its assets. Because Concord’s obligations under its repurchase facilities are recourse to Concord, if Concord does not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, it would likely result in a rapid deterioration of Concord’s financial condition and solvency and adversely affect our investment in Concord. Concord’s future investment grade CDOs, if any, will be collateralized with loan assets and loan securities that are similar to those collateralizing its existing investment grade CDO, and any adverse market trends are likely to adversely affect Concord’s CDO and the issuance of future CDOs. Concord’s existing investment grade CDO is collateralized by fixed and floating rate loan assets and loan securities, and we expect that future issuances, if any, will be backed by similar loan assets and loan securities. Any adverse market trends that affect the value of these types of loan assets and loan securities will adversely affect the value of Concord’s interests in the CDOs and, accordingly, our investment in Concord. Such trends could include declines in real estate values in certain geographic markets or sectors, underperformance of loan assets or loan securities, or changes in federal income tax laws that could affect the performance of debt issued by REITs. The recent capital market crisis has made financings through CDOs difficult. The recent events in the subprime mortgage market have impacted Concord’s ability to consummate a second CDO. Although Concord holds only one bond of $11,500,000 which has minimal exposure to subprime residential mortgages, conditions in the financial capital markets have made issuances of CDOs at this time less attractive to investors. If Concord is unable to issue future CDOs to finance its assets, Concord will be required to hold its loan assets under its existing repurchase facilities longer than originally anticipated or seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing. The inability to issue future CDOs at accretive rates may have a negative impact on Concord’s cash flow and anticipated return. Concord may not be able to access financing sources on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect its ability to execute its business plan and its ability to make distributions. Concord seeks to finance its loan assets and loan securities over the long-term through a variety of means, including repurchase agreements, credit facilities, CDOs and other structured financings. Concord may also seek to finance its investments through the issuance of common or preferred equity interests in Concord. Concord’s ability to execute this strategy depends on various conditions in the financial markets which are beyond its control. If these markets are not an efficient source of long-term financing for Concord’s loan assets and loan securities, Concord will have to find alternative forms of long-term financing for its loan assets and loan securities. This could subject Concord to more expensive financing arrangements which would require a larger portion of its cash flow, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to its members and funds available for operations as well as for future business opportunities. Credit ratings assigned to Concord’s investments are subject to ongoing evaluations and we cannot be sure that the ratings currently assigned to Concord’s investments will not be downgraded. Some of Concord’s investments are rated by the major rating agencies. The credit ratings on these investments are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and we cannot assure you that any such ratings will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. If rating agencies assign a lower rating or reduce, or indicate that they may reduce, their ratings of Concord’s investments, the market value of those investments could significantly decline, which could have an adverse affect on Concord’s financial condition. 26 Concord may make investments in assets with lower credit quality, which will increase our risk of losses. Concord may make investments in unrated loan securities or participate in unrated or distressed mortgage loans. An economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the market price of lower credit quality investments and securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages, including mortgages underlying mortgage-backed securities, to make principal and interest payments might become impaired. The use of CDO financings with coverage tests may have a negative impact on Concord’s operating results and cash flows. Concord’s current CDO contains, and it is likely that future CDOs, if any, will contain coverage tests, including over-collateralization tests, which are used primarily to determine whether and to what extent principal and interest proceeds on the underlying collateral debt securities and other assets may be used to pay principal and interest on the subordinate classes of bonds in the CDO. In the event the coverage tests are not met, distributions otherwise payable to Concord may be re-directed to pay principal on the bond classes senior to Concord’s. Therefore, Concord’s failure to satisfy the coverage tests could adversely affect Concord’s operating results and cash flows. Certain coverage tests which may be applicable to Concord’s interest in its CDOs (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may also restrict Concord’s ability to receive net income from assets pledged to secure the CDOs. If Concord’s assets fail to perform as anticipated, Concord’s over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expense associated with its CDOs will increase. There can be no assurance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties on any future CDOs as to what will be the actual terms of the delinquency tests, over-collateralization, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors regarding the calculation of net income to Concord. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may materially reduce the net income to Concord. Risks Relating to our REIT Equity Interests Our investments in REIT equity interests are subject to specific risks relating to the particular REIT issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in equity interests of REITs. Our investments in REIT equity interests, such as our investment in Lexington involve special risks. REITs generally are required to substantially invest in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks described above including: (i) risks generally incident to interests in real property; (ii) risks associated with the failure to maintain REIT qualification; and (iii) risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. Risks Relating to Our Management Ability of our advisor to operate properties directly affects our financial condition. The ultimate value of our assets and the results of our operations will depend on the ability of our advisor to operate our properties and manage our other investments in a manner sufficient to maintain or increase revenues and control our operating and other expenses in order to generate sufficient revenues to pay amounts due on our indebtedness and to pay dividends to our shareholders. We are dependent on our advisor and the loss of our advisor’s key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our shares. We have no paid employees. Our officers are employees of our advisor. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on our advisor, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of our strategies and operating policies. We are subject to the risk that our advisor will terminate its advisory agreement and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage us. Furthermore, we are dependent on the efforts, diligence, skill, network of business contacts and close supervision of all aspects of our business by our advisor and, in particular, Michael Ashner, chairman of our Board of Trustees and our chief executive officer, and Peter Braverman, our president, as well as our other executive officers. While we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our shares. 27 There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with our advisor. Our chairman and chief executive officer and each of our executive officers also serve as officers of our advisor. Our base management and incentive fee compensation agreements with our advisor were negotiated as part of an overall transaction in which an affiliate of our advisor acquired control of us. Accordingly, the terms of the advisory agreement, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. The incentive fee payable to our advisor may be substantial. Pursuant to the terms of the advisory agreement, at such time, if at all, as we have paid aggregate dividends to our holders of common shares in excess of a threshold amount ($349,653,000 at December 31, 2007), our advisor will be entitled to receive 20% of subsequent dividends paid to holders of our common shares. If we were to liquidate or sell all or a substantial portion of our assets at December 31, 2007, based upon a per share price equal to the closing price on the last day of the year ($5.29 per share at December 31, 2007), the amount payable to our advisor as incentive fee compensation would be approximately $23,310,000. Although the foregoing calculation of the incentive fee is based on the closing price of our common shares on the last day of the year, if the advisory agreement were terminated, the actual incentive fee payable would be based on an appraised valuation or the liquidation proceeds received for our assets, which may be substantially in excess of the amount calculated based on the market price of our common shares. At such time as shareholders' equity in our financial statements exceeds the threshold amount, we will record a liability equal to approximately 20% of the difference between shareholders’ equity and the threshold amount in accordance with GAAP. Termination of the Advisory Agreement may be costly. Termination of the advisory agreement either by us or our advisor may be costly. Upon termination of the advisory agreement, our advisor is entitled to a termination fee equal to the incentive fee based on an appraised valuation of our assets assuming we were then liquidated. The amount payable on termination of the advisory agreement could be substantial which may have a negative affect on the price of our shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2007 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 28 ITEM 