ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Economic Performance and the Value of Our Real Estate Assets are Subject to the Risks Incidental to the Ownership and Operation of Real Estate Properties The value of an investment in us depends upon our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets, both those presently held as well as future investments, which are subject to the risks normally associated with the ownership, operation and disposal of real estate properties and real estate related assets, including: o changes in the general and local economic climate; o competition from other properties; o trends in the retail industry, in employment levels and in consumer spending patterns; o changes in interest rates and the availability of financing; o the cyclical nature of the real estate industry and possible oversupply of, or reduced demand for, space in the markets in which our properties are located; o the attractiveness of our properties to tenants and purchasers; o changes in market rental rates and our ability to rent space on favorable terms; o the bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants; o the need to periodically renovate, repair and re-lease space and the costs thereof; o increases in maintenance, insurance and operating costs; and o civil unrest, acts of terrorism, earthquakes and other natural disasters or acts of God that may result in uninsured losses. In addition, applicable federal, state and local regulations, zoning and tax laws and potential liability under environmental and other laws may affect real estate values. Further, throughout the period that we own real property, regardless of whether a property is producing any income, we must make significant expenditures, including property taxes, maintenance, insurance and related charges and debt service. The risks associated with real estate investments may adversely affect our operating results and financial position, and therefore the funds available for distribution to you as dividends. Ability of Our Advisor to Operate Properties Directly Affects Our Financial Condition The underlying value of our real estate investments, the results of our operations and our ability to make distributions to our holders of beneficial interests and to pay amounts due on our indebtedness will depend on the ability of our advisor to operate our properties and manage our other investments in a manner sufficient to maintain or increase revenues and to generate sufficient revenues in excess of our operating and other expenses. The Loss of Our Advisor's Key Personnel Could Harm Our Operations and Adversely Affect the Value of Our Beneficial Interests We are dependent on the efforts, diligence, skill, network of business contacts and close supervision of all aspects of our business by FUR Advisors and, in particular, Michael Ashner, chairman of our board of trustees and our chief executive officer, and Peter Braverman, our president, as well as our other executive officers, Carolyn Tiffany and Thomas Staples. While we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our shares of beneficial interest. 17 We Face a Number of Significant Issues with Respect to the Properties We Own Which May Adversely Affect our Financial Performance Leasing Issues .With respect to our properties, we are subject to the risk that, upon expiration, leases may not be renewed, the space may not be relet, or the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than the current lease terms. This risk is substantial with respect to our net lease properties as single tenants lease 100% of each property. Twenty-one of our properties, containing an aggregate of approximately 3,496,000 square feet of space are net leased to seven different tenants. Leases accounting for approximately 2% of the aggregate 2005 annualized base rents from our properties, representing approximately 1% of the net rentable square feet at the properties, expire without penalty or premium through the end of 2006, and leases accounting for approximately 2% of aggregate 2005 annualized base rent from the properties, representing approximately 1% of the net rentable square feet at the properties, are scheduled to expire in 2007. Other leases grant tenants early termination rights upon payment of a termination penalty. Lease expirations will require us to locate new tenants and negotiate replacement leases with tenants. The costs for tenant improvements, tenant inducements and leasing commissions, with respect to new leases, are traditionally greater than costs relating to renewal leases. If we are unable to promptly relet or renew leases for all or a substantial portion of the space subject to expiring leases, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, our revenue and net income could be adversely affected. Bankruptcy of Tenant. A tenant may experience a downturn in its business, which could result in the tenant's inability to make rental payments when due. In addition, a tenant may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such tenant's lease and cause a reduction in our cash flow. If this were to occur at a net leased property, the entire property would become vacant. We cannot evict a tenant solely because of its bankruptcy. A court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject and terminate its lease. In such a case, our claim against the tenant for past due rent and unpaid future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In any event, it is unlikely that a bankrupt tenant will pay in full the amount it owes us under a lease. The loss of rental payments from tenants could adversely affect our cash flows and operations. In November 2005, Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc., the tenant at our Jacksonville, Florida property, elected to reject its lease in connection with its proceeding under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. As a result, the property is currently vacant, except for a lease with respect to approximately 175,000 square feet (of the approximately 550,000 total rentable square feet at the property) that is currently leased to a previous sub-tenant of Winn-Dixie. Tenant Concentration. Our Circle Tower property does not have any individual tenant that occupies 10% or more of the space at the property or whose rental payments account for 10% or more of the rental revenue at the property. Accordingly, it is unlikely that the financial weakness or relocation of a single tenant would adversely affect our cash flows. However, in the future it is possible that a single tenant at the Circle Tower property could occupy a significant portion of the leasable space or provide a substantial portion of the property’s rental revenue. Our Ontario Property in which we hold an 80% interest has one tenant that occupies 11% of the space at the property. We believe that the relocation or future financial weakness of this tenant would not have a material adverse effect on our rental revenue. With respect to the net leased properties, leases with Viacom Inc., The Kroger Co. and Duke Energy represent approximately 29%, 17% and 18%, respectively, of the total rentable square footage of the net leased properties. Accordingly, the financial weakness of any of these tenants could negatively impact our operations and cash flows. However, we presently own only an 8% interest in the Duke Energy property. Competition. For a discussion of risks related to competition in the real estate business, see “Item 1. Business - Competition”. A Significant Proportion of Our Investments are in the Chicago Metropolitan Area and are Affected By the Economic Cycles And Risks Inherent To That Region. At December 31, 2005, 16.6% of our total assets represented investments made directly in, or secured by, properties located in the Chicago, Illinois metropolitan area. Excluding mortgage-backed securities available for sale and real estate securities 18 available for sale, our assets representing investments made directly in or secured by properties located in this area increased to 22.3% at December 31, 2005. In addition, we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future investments in the Chicago area. Like other real estate markets, the real estate market in the Chicago metropolitan and suburban area has experienced economic downturns in the past, and we cannot predict how the current economic conditions will impact this market in both the short and long term. Further declines in the economy or a decline in the real estate market in this area could hurt our financial performance and the value of our investments. The factors affecting economic conditions in this region include: space needs of local industry; business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; financial performance and productivity of the publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; infrastructure quality; and oversupply of or reduced demand for real estate. The Mortgage Loans We Invest In Are Subject to Delinquency, Foreclosure and Loss We seek to make commercial mortgage loans that may be secured by multi-tenant income producing property. These loans are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix; success of tenant businesses; property management decisions; property location and condition; competition from comparable types of properties; changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged; the need to address environmental contamination at the property; the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments; declines in regional or local real estate values; declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates; increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation; acts of God; terrorism; social unrest; and civil disturbances. In the event of a default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral, including the overall financial condition of the tenant, and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower to whom we have lent money, the loan will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. Our Mezzanine and Second Mortgage Loans Involve Greater Risks of Loss than Senior Loans Secured by Income Producing Properties Our investments include mezzanine and second mortgage loans with respect to office and mixed-use buildings. These loans are secured by a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that owns the property or a second mortgage lien on the property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income producing real property. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. Our Investments in REIT Securities Are Subject to Specific Risks Relating to the Particular REIT Issuer of the Securities and to the General Risks of Investing in Equity Real Estate Securities Our investments in REIT securities, such as our investments in Newkirk, Sizeler Property and American First Apartment Investors, Inc., involve special risks. REITs generally are required to substantially invest in real estate or real estate-related 19 assets and are subject to the inherent risks described herein including: (i) risks generally incident to interests in real property; (ii) risks associated with the failure to maintain REIT qualification; and (iii) risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. Investing in Private Companies Involves a High Degree of Risk We have ownership interests in, and may acquire additional ownership interests in, private companies not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Investments in private businesses involve a higher degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and accordingly should be considered very speculative. There is generally no publicly available information about these private companies, and we will rely significantly on the due diligence of our advisor to obtain information in connection with our investment decisions. We May Not Be Able to Invest Our Cash Reserves in Suitable Investments At December 31, 2005 we had $19,018,000 cash and cash equivalents available for investment. Our cash and cash equivalents are expected to increase by approximately $27,400,000 as a result of our planned rights offering. Our ability to generate increased revenues is dependent upon our ability to invest these funds in real estate related assets that will ultimately generate favorable returns. We Have Significant Distribution Obligations to Holders of Our Preferred Stock The provisions of our Series B-1 Shares currently require us to make annual distributions aggregating approximately $6,500,000 before any distributions may be made on our common shares. We May Acquire or Sell Additional Assets or Additional Properties. Our Failure or Inability to Consummate These Transactions or Manage the Results of These Transactions Could Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results We may acquire properties or acquire other real estate companies when we believe that an acquisition is consistent with our business strategies. We may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions. Also, we may not succeed in leasing newly acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover their costs of acquisition and operation. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could consume a disproportionate share of management's attention. We May Not Be Able to Obtain Capital to Make Investments At such time as we utilize our cash reserves, we will be dependent primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. This is because one of the requirements for a REIT is that it distribute 90% of its net taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. There is also a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax. Our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. We and other companies in the real estate industry have experienced limited availability of financing from time to time. Although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, requisite financing may not be available on acceptable terms. Factors That May Cause Us to Lose Our New York Stock Exchange Listing If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT, we might lose our listing on the NYSE. Whether we would lose our NYSE listing would depend on a number of factors besides REIT status, including the number of holders of beneficial interests and amount and composition of our assets. If we were to lose our NYSE listing, we would likely try to have our common shares listed on another national securities exchange. Future Issuances and Sales of Our Common Shares Pursuant to an Outstanding Registration Statement May Affect the Market Price of Our Common Shares We currently have an effective “shelf” registration statement on file covering the issuance, from time to time, of up to $358,000,000 of our common shares, preferred shares and/or debt securities. The registration statement also covers the resale by certain selling shareholders of up to 23,222,223 common shares. In addition, we have filed a further registration statement 20 with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to which we plan on making a rights offering in which we will issue up to 5,220,038 additional common shares. The actual issuance of additional common shares or sale of these or other large holdings of common shares may decrease the market price of our common shares. We have also agreed to file a registration statement covering the resale of 3,522,566 common shares recently issued to one investor. Dependence on Qualification As a REIT; Tax and Other Consequences If REIT Qualification is Lost Although we believe that we have been and will remain organized and have operated and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we cannot assure this result. Qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. Our qualification as a REIT also depends on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions might change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT. If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and certain relief provisions do not apply, we could not deduct distributions to our shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal corporate income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income. If we had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to our shareholders would be reduced for the year or years involved, but we would no longer be required to pay dividends to our shareholders. In addition, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost and thus our cash available for distribution to our shareholders would be reduced in each of those years, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. Although we currently intend to operate in a manner designed to allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us to revoke the REIT election. In that event, we and our shareholders would no longer be entitled to the federal income tax benefits applicable to a REIT. Pursuant to an agreement with Vornado, we may be liable to pay damages to Vornado in the event we fail to maintain our status as a REIT. In Order to Maintain Our Status As a REIT, We May Be Forced To Borrow Funds During Unfavorable Market Conditions As a REIT, we generally must distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to our shareholders. To the extent that we satisfy the REIT distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our cash flow available for distribution to our shareholders (for example, due to substantial non-deductible cash outlays, such as capital expenditures or principal payments on debt). If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or find alternative sources of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid income and excise taxes in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our operating costs or diminish our rate of growth. Liquidity of Real Estate Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to vary our real estate portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions will therefore be limited. If we decide to sell an investment, no assurance can be given that we will be able to dispose of it in the time period we desire or that the sales price of any investment will recoup or exceed the amount of our investment. 21 Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely impact our ability to pay dividends to you. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for "public accommodations" and "commercial facilities," but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. Although we believe that our properties are in compliance with the ADA, it is possible that we may incur additional expenditures which, if substantial, could adversely affect our results of operations our financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to you. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have an adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends to you. Additionally, failure to comply with any of these requirements could result in the imposition of fines by governmental authorities or awards of damages to private litigants. While we intend to acquire only properties that we believe are currently in substantial compliance with all regulatory requirements, these requirements could be changed or new requirements could be imposed which would require significant unanticipated expenditures by us and could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and dividends paid. Environmental Liabilities The obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of complying with future legislation, may affect our operating costs. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on or under the property. Environmental laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances and whether or not such substances originated from the property. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to remediate such property properly, may adversely affect our ability to borrow by using such real property as collateral. We maintain insurance related to potential environmental issues on our currently owned properties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for releases of hazardous materials, including asbestos-containing materials ("ACMs") into the environment. In addition, third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to released ACMs or other hazardous materials. Environmental laws may also impose restrictions on the use or transfer of property, and these restrictions may require expenditures. In connection with the ownership and operation of any of our properties, we and the lessees of these properties may be liable for any such costs. The cost of defending against claims of liability or remediating contaminated property and the cost of complying with environmental laws could materially adversely affect our ability to pay amounts due on indebtedness and dividends to holders of beneficial interests. This risk is mitigated for our net leased properties as the lease agreements for those properties require the tenant to comply with all environmental laws and indemnify us for any loss relating to environmental liabilities. Prior to undertaking major transactions, we hire independent environmental experts to review specific properties. We have no reason to believe that any environmental contamination or violation of any applicable law, statute, regulation or ordinance governing hazardous or toxic substances has occurred or is occurring, except for the property located in Jacksonville, Florida, previously net leased to Winn-Dixie. Under the terms of its lease, Winn-Dixie was responsible for the remediation of petroleum related contamination encountered in the ground water during removal of underground storage tanks. However, in light of Winn-Dixie’s bankruptcy, it is probable that Winn-Dixie will not honor its obligation and that we would not recover a material amount by bringing a claim against Winn-Dixie. Given the nature of the contamination at the Jacksonville property and the inclusion of a substantial portion of the costs associated with the remediation being covered by a state sponsored plan, we do not believe the costs to be borne by us would be material. Our advisor also endeavors to protect us from acquiring contaminated properties or properties with significant compliance problems by obtaining site assessments and property reports at the time of acquisition when it deems such investigations to be appropriate. There is no guarantee, however, that these measures will successfully insulate us from all such liabilities. Uninsured and Underinsured Losses We may not be able to insure our properties against losses of a catastrophic nature, such as terrorist acts, earthquakes and floods, because such losses are uninsurable or are not economically insurable. We will use our discretion in determining 22 amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance coverage on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. This may result in insurance coverage that, in the event of a substantial loss, would not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of the lost investment and also may result in certain losses being totally uninsured. Inflation, changes in building codes, zoning or other land use ordinances, environmental considerations, lender imposed restrictions and other factors also might make it not feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace the property after such property has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds, if any, received by us might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to such property. With respect our net lease properties, under the lease agreements for such properties, the tenant is required to adequately insure the property, but their failure to have adequate coverage for catastrophic losses may adversely affect our economic position with respect to such property. Inability to Refinance We are subject to the normal risks associated with debt and preferred stock financings, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest and distributions and the risk that indebtedness on our properties, or unsecured indebtedness, will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due, or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of such indebtedness. If we were unable to refinance the indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us, which could have a material adverse affect on us and our ability to pay dividends to our holders of beneficial interests and to pay amounts due on our indebtedness. Furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagor could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver or obtain an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of revenues and asset value to us. Foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements of the Code. We Leverage Our Portfolio, Which May Adversely Affect Our Return on Our Investments and May Reduce Cash Available for Distribution We seek to leverage our portfolio through borrowings. Our return on investments and cash available for distribution to holders of beneficial interests may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets. Our debt service payments reduce the cash available for distributions to holders of beneficial interests. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or forced sale to satisfy our debt obligations. A decrease in the value of the assets may lead to a requirement that we repay certain borrowings. We may not have the funds available to satisfy such repayments. Rising Interest Rates We have incurred and may in the future incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs to the extent that the related indebtedness was not protected by interest rate protection arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to pay dividends to our holders of beneficial interests and to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may encourage holders to sell their common shares and reinvest the proceeds in higher yielding securities, which could adversely affect the market price for the common shares. We May Engage in Hedging Transactions That May Limit Our Gains or Result in Losses We may use derivatives to hedge our liabilities and this has certain risks, including: o losses on a hedge position may reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders and such losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments; o counterparties to a hedging arrangement could default on their obligations; and o we may have to pay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs. 23 Our Board of Trustees has adopted a general policy with respect to our use of interest rate swaps, the purchase or sale of interest rate collars, caps or floors, options, mortgage derivatives and other hedging instruments in order to hedge as much of the interest rate risk as our manager determines is in the best interest of our stockholders, given the cost of such hedges and the need to maintain our status as a REIT. Our Board’s policy does not set forth specific policies and procedures for the use of these instruments. We may use these hedging instruments in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. A hedge may not be effective in eliminating all of the risks inherent in any particular position. Our profitability may be adversely affected during the period as a result of the use of derivatives. Ownership Limitations in Our Bylaws May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Common Shares Our bylaws contain an ownership limitation that is designed to prohibit any transfer that would result in our being "closely-held" within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code. This ownership limitation, which may be waived by our Board of Trustees, generally prohibits ownership, directly or indirectly, by any single shareholder of more than 9.8% of the common shares. Our Board has waived this ownership limitation on a number of occasions. Unless the Board waives the restrictions or approves a bylaw amendment, common shares owned by a person or group of persons in excess of 9.8% of our outstanding common shares are not entitled to any voting rights; are not considered outstanding for quorum or voting purposes; and are not entitled to dividends, interest or any other distributions with respect to the common shares. The ownership limit may have the effect of inhibiting or impeding a change of control over us or a tender offer for our common shares. We Must Manage Our Investments In A Manner That Allows Us To Rely On An Exemption From Registration Under The Investment Company Act In Order To Avoid The Consequences Of Regulation Under That Act We intend to operate so that we are exempt from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Therefore, the assets that we may invest in, or acquire, are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The investments that we must make for us to be exempt from registration, including our whole pool mortgage-backed securities, may not represent an optimum use of our investable capital when compared to the available investments we target pursuant to our investment strategy. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2005 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 24 