Item 1A Risk Factors - continued Due to Increased Competition, the Bank May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Banking Customers At Current Levels Adversely affecting Company Profits. If, due to competition from competitors in the Bank’s market areas, the Bank is unable to attract new and retain current customers, loan and deposit growth could decrease causing the Bank’s results of operations and financial condition to be negatively impacted. The Bank faces competition from the following: 1. local, regional and national banks; 2. savings and loans; 3. internet banks; 4. credit unions; 5. insurance companies; 6. finance companies; and 7. brokerage firms serving the Company’s market areas. The Bank’s Lending Limit May Prevent It from Making Large Loans. In the future, the Bank may not be able to attract larger volume customers because the size of loans that the Bank can offer to potential customers is less than the size of the loans that many of the company’s larger competitors can offer. We anticipate that our lending limit will continue to increase proportionately with the Bank’s growth in earnings; however, the Bank may not be able to successfully attract or maintain larger customers. Certain Loans That the Bank Makes Are Riskier than Loans for Real Estate Lending. The Bank makes loans that involve a greater degree of risk than loans involving residential real estate lending. Commercial business loans may involve greater risks than other types of lending because they are often made based on varying forms of collateral, and repayment of these loans often depends on the success of the commercial venture. Consumer loans may involve greater risk because adverse changes in borrowers’ incomes and employment after funding of the loans may impact their abilities to repay the loans. The Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2005, consists of the following: Type of Loan Percentage of Portfolio Residential Real Estate 33.4 % Commercial, Principally Real Estate Secured 34.4 % Consumer 12.3 % The Bank Is Subject to Interest Rate Risk. Aside from credit risk, the most significant risk resulting from the Bank’s normal course of business, extending loans and accepting deposits, is interest rate risk. If market interest rate fluctuations cause the bank’s cost of funds to increase faster than the yield of its interest-earning assets, then its net interest income will be reduced. The Bank’s results of operations depend to a large extent on the level of net interest income, which is the difference between income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. The Company and the Bank rely heavily on their management team, and the unexpected loss of key management may adversely affect operations. The success of the Company and the Bank to date has been influenced strongly by their ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services. The ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams will continue to be important to the successful implementation of their strategies. Neither the Company nor the Bank have employment or non-compete agreements with any of these key employees. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on business and financial results. In the event that approvals by the OCC and the Federal Reserve Board of Sylvan J. Dlesk as President and CEO of the Company and as President of the Bank are not obtained as more particularly detailed at Item 9B, the lack of such executive positions and the expenditure of time and other assets necessary to find and recruit a replacement or replacements for such positions may have an adverse effect on the Company and the Bank. 12 Table of Contents Item 1A RISK FACTORS - continued An Economic Slowdown in the Bank’s Market Area Could Hurt Our Business. An economic slowdown in the Bank’s market areas could hurt our business. An economic slowdown could have the following consequences: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • Demand for the products and services of the company may decline; and • Collateral (including real estate) for loans made by the company may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and making existing loans less secure. The Company and the Bank are Extensively Regulated. The operations of the Company are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on them. Policies adopted or required by these governmental authorities can affect the company’s business operations and the availability, growth and distribution of the company’s investments, borrowings and deposits. Proposals to change the laws governing financial institutions are frequently raised in Congress and before bank regulatory authorities. Changes in applicable laws or policies could materially affect the Company’s business, and the likelihood of any major changes in the future and their effects are impossible to determine. The Bank’s Allowance for Loan Losses May Not Be Sufficient. In the future, the Bank could experience negative credit quality trends that could head to a deterioration of asset quality. Such deterioration could require the Bank to incur loan charge-offs in the future and incur additional loan loss provision, both of which would have the effect of decreasing earnings. The Bank maintains an allowance for possible loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. Any increases in the allowance for possible loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operation. Shares of the Company’s Common Stock Are Not Insured. Neither the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation nor any other governmental agency insures the shares of the Company’s common stock. Therefore, the value of your shares in the Company is based on their market value and may decline. The Company’s Ability to Pay Dividends Depends Primarily on Dividends Received from the Bank, which is Subject to Regulatory Limits. The ability of the Company, being a bank holding company, to pay dividends depends on its receipt of dividends from the Bank. Dividend payments from the Bank are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by the various banking regulatory agencies. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. The payment of dividends is permitted but temporarily subject to the prior approval of the OCC and there is no assurance that the Bank will be permitted to pay dividends in the future. The Corporation’s failure to pay dividends on its common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of its common stock. Customers May Default on the Repayment of Loans. The Bank’s customers may default on the repayment of loans, which may negatively impact the Company’s earnings due to loss of principal and interest income. Increased operating expenses may result from the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan. Collection efforts may or may not be successful causing the Bank to write off the loan or repossess the collateral securing the loan which may or may not exceed the balance of the loan. The Company’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, no matter how well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial conditions. 13 Table of Contents Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 