Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Should any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition, and future prospects could be negatively impacted. These risks are not the only ones we face. There may be additional factors that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial that could affect our business. We may lose market share due to competition, which would decrease our future sales and earnings. The furniture industry is very competitive and fragmented. We compete with many domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Some competitors have greater financial resources than we have and some often offer extensively advertised, well-recognized, branded products. Foreign producers typically have lower selling prices due to their lower operating costs. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or raise the prices of our products in response to such competitive pressures or increasing costs. Also, due to the large number of competitors and their wide range of product offerings, we may not be able to differentiate our products (through styling, finish and other construction techniques) from those of our competitors. Large retail furniture dealers have the ability to obtain offshore sourcing on their own. As a result, we a re continually subject to the risk of losing market share, which may lower our sales and earnings. Our offshore capabilities provide flexibility in product offerings and pricing to meet competitive pressures, but this approach may adversely affect our ability to service customers, which could lower future sales and earnings. We acquire a portion of our finished goods and components used in our manufacturing operations from foreign vendors. These vendors are located primarily in Southeast Asia. The delivery of goods from these vendors may be delayed for reasons not typically encountered with U.S. suppliers including shipment delays caused by customs, labor issues, changes in political, economic and social conditions, laws and regulations. This could make it more difficult to service our customers resulting in lower sales and earnings. If we experience the loss of large customers through business failures (or for other reasons) or any extended business interruptions at our manufacturing facilities, this could decrease our future sales and earnings. Although we have no customers that individually represent 10% or more of our net sales, the possibility of business failures by, or the loss of, large customers could decrease our future sales and earnings. Lost sales may be difficult to replace and any amounts owed to us may become uncollectible. Our inability to fill customer orders during an extended business interruption could negatively impact existing customer relationships resulting in market share decreases. 4 At times it is necessary we discontinue certain relationships with customers who do not meet our growth, credit or profitability standards. Until realignment is established, there can be a decrease in near-term sales and earnings. We continually review relationships with our customers and future realignments are possible based upon such ongoing reviews. Our failure to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer tastes and fashions in a timely manner could adversely affect our business and decrease our sales and earnings. Furniture is a styled product and is subject to rapidly changing consumer trends and tastes and is highly fashion oriented, and if we are not able to acquire sufficient fabric variety, or if we are unable to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends, we may lose sales and have to sell excess inventory at reduced prices. If we experience fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials, this could cause manufacturing delays, adversely affect our ability to provide goods to our customers and increase our costs, any of which could decrease our sales and earnings. We use various types of wood, fabrics, leathers, upholstered filling material, high carbon spring steel, bar and wire stock and other raw materials in manufacturing furniture. Because we are dependent on outside suppliers for all of our raw material needs, we must obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials from our suppliers at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. We do not utilize long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Unfavorable fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of these raw materials could negatively affect our ability to meet demands of our customers and have a negative impact on product margin. The inability to meet our customers’ demands could result in the loss of future sales, and we may not always be able to pass along price increases to our customers due to competitive and marketing pressures. Future costs of complying with various laws and regulations may adversely impact future operating results. Our business is subject to various laws and regulations, such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, the Pension Protection Act of 2006, the Lacey Act, as amended in 2008 to cover plants and trees, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, the Security and Accountability for Every (SAFE) Port Act of 2006, the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act as well as many others. Partially in response to the financial markets crises and the global economic recession, regulatory initiatives have accelerated in the United States and abroad. These initiatives could have a significant impact on our operations and the cost to comply with such laws and regulations could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, failure to comply with such laws and regulatio ns, even inadvertently, could produce negative consequences which could adversely impact our operations. Terms of collective bargaining agreements and labor disruptions could adversely impact our results of operations. We employ approximately 1,400 people, 20% of whom are covered by union contracts. Where a significant portion of our workers are unionized, our ability to implement productivity improvements and effect savings with respect to health care, pension and other retirement costs is more restricted than in many nonunion operations as a result of various restrictions specified in our collective bargaining agreements. Terms of collective bargaining agreements that prevent us from competing effectively could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are committed to working with those groups to resolve conflicts as they arise. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. Due to our participation in three multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposures under those plans that could extend beyond what our obligations would be with respect to our employees. We participate in, and make periodic contributions to, three multi-employer pension plans that cover 60% of our union employees. Multi-employer pension plans are managed by trustee boards comprised of participating employer and labor union representatives, and the employers participating in a multi-employer pension plan are jointly responsible for maintaining the plan’s funding requirements. Based on the most recent information available to us, we believe that the present value of actuarially accrued liabilities in the multi-employer pension plans substantially exceeds the value of the assets held in trust to pay benefits. As a result of our participation, we could experience greater volatility in our overall pension funding obligations. Our obligations may be impacted by the funded status of the plans, the plans investment performance, changes in the participant demographics, financial stability of contributing employers and changes in actuarial assumptions. Proposed changes in generally accepted accounting principles could result in a requirement to record a portion of the multi-employer plan’s funded status as a liability in our financial statements. 5 We are, and may in the future be, a party to legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability or environmental matters, some of which claim significant damages and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We face the business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but there can be no assurance such coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or that such coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance future litigation will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with, or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under, environmental laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 