Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Should any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition, and future prospects could be negatively impacted. These risks are not the only ones we face. There may be additional factors that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial that could affect our business. Our products are considered highly deferrable purchases for consumers during economic downturns. Prolonged negative economic conditions could impact our business. Home furnishings and commercial products are generally considered a deferrable purchase by most consumers and end-users. Economic downturns and prolonged negative economic conditions could affect consumer spending habits by decreasing the overall demand for home furnishings and commercial products. These events could impact retailers, hospitality, recreational vehicle seating and healthcare businesses resulting in an impact on our business. A recovery in our sales could lag significantly behind a general economic recovery due to the deferrable nature and relatively significant cost of home furnishings and commercial products purchases. Our future success depends on our ability to manage our global supply chain. We acquire raw materials, component parts and certain finished products from external suppliers, both U.S. and foreign. Many of these suppliers are dependent upon other suppliers in countries other than where they are located. This global interdependence within our supply chain is subject to delays in delivery, availability, quality and pricing (including tariffs) of products. The delivery of goods from these suppliers may be delayed by customs, labor issues, changes in political, economic and social conditions, laws and regulations. Unfavorable fluctuations in price, quality, delivery and availability of these products could negatively affect our ability to meet demands of our customers and have a negative impact on product margin. Competition from U.S. and foreign finished product manufacturers may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. The furniture industry is very competitive and fragmented. We compete with U.S. and foreign manufacturers and distributors. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or raise the prices of our products in response to competitive pressures or increasing costs. Also, due to the large number of competitors and their wide range of product offerings, we may not be able to significantly differentiate our products (through styling, finish and other construction techniques) from those of our competitors. Our current and potential customers have the ability to obtain products direct from the manufacturers. As a result, we are continually subject to the risk of losing market share, which may lower our sales and earnings. 4 Business failures of large dealers or a group of customers could impact our future sales and earnings. Our business practice has been to extend payment terms to our customers. As a result, we have a large amount of trade receivables. Although we have no customers that individually represent 10% or more of our annual net sales or accounts receivable, net, balance as of June 30, 2013, business failures of a large customer or a group of customers could require us to record additional receivable reserves, which would decrease earnings. Receivables collection can be significantly impacted by economic conditions. Deterioration of the economy or a lack of economic recovery could cause further business failures of our customers, which could in turn require additional receivable reserves and lower our earnings. Our failure to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer or designer tastes and fashions in a timely manner could adversely affect our business and decrease our sales and earnings. Furniture is a styled product and is subject to rapidly changing consumer and end-user trends and tastes and is highly fashion oriented, and if we are not able to acquire sufficient fabric variety, or if we are unable to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends, we may lose sales and have to sell excess inventory at reduced prices. Our success depends on our ability to recruit and retain key employees. Our success depends on our ability to recruit and retain key employees. If we are not successful in recruiting and retaining key employees or experience the unexpected loss of key employees, our operations may be negatively impacted. Future costs of complying with various laws and regulations may adversely impact future operating results. Our business is subject to various laws and regulations which could have a significant impact on our operations and the cost to comply with such laws and regulations could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, failure to comply with such laws and regulations, even inadvertently, could produce negative consequences which could adversely impact our operations. Terms of collective bargaining agreements and labor disruptions could adversely impact our results of operations. We employ approximately 1,360 people, 285 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Terms of collective bargaining agreements that prevent us from competing effectively could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are committed to working with those groups to avert or resolve conflicts as they arise. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. Due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposures under those plans that could extend beyond what our obligations would be with respect to our employees. We participate in, and make periodic contributions to, three multi-employer pension plans that cover 215 of our union employees. Multi-employer pension plans are managed by trustee boards comprised of participating employer and labor union representatives, and the employers participating in a multi-employer pension plan are jointly responsible for maintaining the plan’s funding requirements. Based on the most recent information available to us, we believe that the present value of actuarially accrued liabilities in the multi-employer pension plans substantially exceeds the value of the assets held in trust to pay benefits. As a result of our participation, we could experience greater volatility in our overall pension funding obligations. Our obligations may be impacted by the funded status of the plans, the plans’ investment performance, changes in the participant demographics, financial stability of contributing employers and changes in actuarial assumptions. Our future results may be affected by various legal proceedings and compliance risk, including those involving product liability, environmental, or other matters. We face the business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment. We could incur substantial costs, including legal expenses, as a result of the noncompliance with, or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under, environmental laws. See Note 11, “Litigation” within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of an existing environmental claim against the Company. Additionally, the Company is involved in various other kinds of commercial disputes. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, these various legal proceedings and compliance matters could have a material impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. 5 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 