Item 1A. Risk Factors A substantial portion of our revenues and, to a large extent, our profitability, depends upon rates determined by the FPSC. FPSC regulates many aspects of our natural gas and electric operating segments, including the retail rates that we may charge customers for natural gas and electric service. Our retail rates are set by the FPSC using a cost-of-service approach that takes into account our historical operating expenses, our fixed obligations and recovery of our capital investments, including potentially stranded obligations. Using this approach, the FPSC sets rates at a level calculated to recover such costs, adjusted to reflect known and measurable changes, and a permitted return on investment. Any rate adjustments to recover increased costs or to otherwise improve our profitability must be obtained through a petition filed with the FPSC, which is referred to as a rate case. The rates permitted by the FPSC in rate cases will determine a substantial portion of our revenues for succeeding periods and may have a material imp act on our consolidated earnings, cash flows and financial position, as well as our ability to maintain our common stock dividend at current levels or to increase our dividend in the future. Some of our natural gas and electric service costs may not be fully recovered through retail rates. Our natural gas and electric service retail rates, once established by the FPSC, remain fixed until changed in a subsequent rate case. We may at any time elect to file a rate case to request a change in our rates or intervening parties may request that the FPSC review our rates for possible adjustment, subject to any limitations that may have been ordered by the FPSC. Earnings could be reduced to the extent that our operating costs increase more than our revenues during the period between rate cases, which may occur because of maintenance and repair of plants, fuel and purchased power expenses, employee or labor costs, inflation or other factors. In addition, even if we decide to file rate cases, our requests for rate adjustments in such rate cases may be rejected. Other parties to a rate case or the FPSC staff may contend that our current rates, or rates proposed in a rate case, are e xcessive and our petition for rate adjustments may be denied on that or another basis. Our segments are sensitive to variations in weather. Our segments are affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. We forecast energy sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather could have a material impact on energy sales. Unusual weather, such as hurricanes, could also adversely affect operating costs and sales. Our natural gas and propane gas customers use gas primarily for heating purposes. As a result, our natural gas and propane gas sales peak in the winter and are more weather sensitive than electricity sales, which peak in both summer and winter periods. Mild winter weather in Florida can be expected to negatively impact results from our natural gas and propane gas operations. Severe weather conditions could also interrupt or slow down service and increase the operating costs of all our segments. We operate in an increasingly competitive industry, which may affect our future earnings. Natural Gas The natural gas distribution industry has been subject to competitive forces for several years. We receive our supply of natural gas at thirteen city gate stations connected to an interstate pipeline system owned by FGT and one gate station connected to an intrastate pipeline owned by Florida City Gas Company. Gulfstream Natural Gas System currently also serves peninsular Florida with interstate natural gas transmission service; however we cannot predict if this system will be extended to areas near our existing facilities and how it could affect our natural gas operations. Electric The U.S. electric power industry has been undergoing restructuring. There is competition in wholesale power sales on a national level. Some states have mandated or encouraged competition at the retail level. While there is active wholesale competition in Florida, the retail electric business has remained substantially free from direct competition. Changes in the competitive environment occasioned by legislation, regulation, market conditions or initiatives of other electric power providers, particularly with respect to retail competition, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent competitive pressures increase and the pricing and sale of electricity assumes more of the characteristics of a commodity business, the economics of our electric operating segment may come under increasing pressure. In addition, regulatory changes may increase access to electricity transmi ssion grids by utility and non-utility purchasers and sellers of electricity, thus potentially resulting in a significant number of additional competitors. Propane Gas Our propane gas business is our only non-regulated business segment. Because the propane gas business is not regulated, we face significant competition in this segment. Our propane gas business competes directly with other distributors of propane gas, and other sources of energy including natural gas and electric. We may encounter increased competition in the propane gas business in the future. Our inability to compete effectively in the propane gas business, whether on the basis of price, customer service, alternative energy sources or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if our supply of natural gas is interrupted. FGT’s pipeline system transports all of our natural gas. FGT is owned by Citrus Corporation, which is jointly owned by Cross Country Energy Corporation and El Paso Corporation. Our ability to receive our normal supply of natural gas could be adversely affected by an interruption in FGT’s service. General economic conditions may adversely affect our segments. Our segments are affected by general economic conditions. The consumption of the energy we supply is directly tied to the economy. A downturn in the economy in our local areas of operations, as well as on the state, national and international levels, could adversely affect the performance of our segments. Changes in political climate, including terrorist activities, could further negatively impact our performance. If tourism is down, then the demand for the energy we supply is reduced. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive position of our segments. Our segments are sensitive to changes in coal, gas, oil and other commodity prices. If we are unable to increase the rates we charge to customers to reflect increases in these commodity prices, our margins and earnings will be lowered. If increased prices for any of these commodities persist for substantial periods, our competitive position could be adversely affected by customers who switch to cheaper energy sources. Further, natural gas prices have been increasingly volatile and, accordingly, the earnings from our natural gas operations are increasingly difficult to predict. We could incur material expenses as a result of our obligations to comply with existing and new environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to environmental regulations in connection with the ongoing conduct of our business and to civil and criminal liability for failure to comply with these regulations. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, affecting our operations or facilities may be adopted which may cause us to incur additional material expenses. We are subject to federal and state legislation with respect to soil, groundwater, employee health and safety matters and to environmental regulations issued by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP), the EPA and other federal and state agencies. We may incur material future expenditures in order to comply with these existing environmental laws and regulations. We rely on a limited number of natural gas and electric suppliers, the loss of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Two pipeline suppliers under several contracts having expiration dates from 2007 to 2023 transport our natural gas to us. These contracts have provisions, which allow us to extend the terms ranging from 2020 to 2032. Our electric services are provided by two suppliers under contracts, which expire in 2007 and 2017. We have renegotiated a new contract for the one that is set to expire in 2007 with the same supplier for electric service beginning in 2008 which we are currently awaiting approval for from the FPSC. If we were to lose any of these contracts, we might not be able to replace the corresponding energy source on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, in the event of the expiration of the contracts, we might not be able to renew them on favorable terms, if at all. As a result, the loss of any of these suppliers, the terminations of any of these supply contracts or the non-renewal of any of these supply contracts before or upon their expiration could have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. New supply contracts could result in substantial increases to our prices, and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Two pipeline suppliers under firm contracts having expiration dates from 2007 to 2023 transport our natural gas to us. All of these contracts have provisions which allow us to extend the terms ranging from 2020 to 2032. Our electric services are provided by two suppliers under contracts, which expire in 2007 and 2017. The recent renewal of the electricity supply contract that was terminated in 2006 and the one that will expire in 2007 will result in the cost of electricity more than doubling over existing prices. Extensions or renewals of our natural gas contracts could result in the cost of natural gas increasing. Although these increases are currently passed through to our customers, these could have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations due to decreased consumption or if costs cannot be passed through in the future. Fluctuation in prices under long-term purchase and transportation commitments may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To ensure a reliable supply of electricity and natural gas at competitive prices, we have entered into purchase and transportation contracts with various suppliers and producers, which expire at various dates through 2023. Purchase prices under these contracts are determined by formulas either based on market prices or at fixed prices. As of December 31, 2006, we have firm purchase and transportation commitments adequate to supply our expected sales requirements for electricity with contracts that will expire in 2017. Our contract in the Northeast division of the electric segment began January 1, 2007 and expires on December 31, 2017. We have a contract with a supplier for the Northwest division beginning January 1, 2008 and expiring December 31, 2017. We are currently seeking approval with the FPSC for the Northwest division contract. If the FPSC does not approve this contract, we may need to seek an alternative supplier or new contract with this same supplier for the purchase of electricity in the Northwest division. Our natural gas pipeline transportation contracts expire in parts in 2010, 2015 and 2023. We are committed to pay demand or similar fixed charges monthly through 2023 related to the natural gas pipeline transportation agreements. Significant fluctuation in prices under these long-term purchase and transportation commitments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Problems with operations could materially adversely impact us. We are subject to various operational risks, including accidents, outages, equipment breakdowns or failures, or operations below expected levels of performance or efficiency. Problems such as the breakdown or failure of transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes and interruptions in service which would result in performance below affected levels of output or efficiency, particularly if extending for prolonged periods of time, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are vulnerable to interest rate changes and may not have access to capital at favorable rates, if at all. Changes in interest rates can affect our cost of borrowing on our line of credit, on refinancing of debt maturities and on incremental borrowing to fund new investments. Because our stock is not widely held and has a low trading volume, we may not be able to access the equity market or may be limited in the amount of equity financing. If we are unable to obtain equity or debt financing on terms satisfactory to us, our ability to fund capital expenditures and other commitments will be impaired. Moreover, even if available, the cost of such financing could reduce our margins and materially adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to effectively and efficiently manage our growth, as well as changes in our business strategies, could have a negative impact on our performance. An essential part of our business strategy is to grow our businesses. Much of our growth depends on our ability to find attractive development opportunities and to obtain the necessary financing for them. Our outlook is based on our expectation that we will be successful in finding and capitalizing on development opportunities, but our efforts may not be successful. Our failure to effectively and efficiently manage our growth, as well as changes in our business strategies, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we grow our business with acquisitions there is a risk the acquisition will not have a positive effect on our financial condition. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is limited. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to pay dividends at our current annual dividend rate or at all. In particular, our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend upon, among other things, our future earnings, our cash requirements and our debt covenants. Provisions in our certificate of reincorporation, certain agreements, and the Florida Business Corporation Act may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of reincorporation as well as provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act (FBCA), contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control in our management that shareholders might consider favorable and may prevent them from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. Our certificate of reincorporation contains provisions that make it more difficult to obtain control of our company through transactions, which have not received the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include supermajority voting requirements for certain transactions with affiliated persons, staggering the terms of the members of our board of directors, and certain procedural requirements relating to shareholder meetings and amendments to our certificate of reincorporation or bylaws. In addition, Florida has enacted legislation that may deter or frustrate takeovers of Florida corporations. Subject to certain exceptions, the "Control Share Acquisitions" section of the FBCA generally provides that shares acquired in excess of certain specified thresholds, beginning at 20% of a corporation’s outstanding voting shares, will not possess any voting rights unless such voting rights are approved by a majority vote of the corporation’s disinterested shareholders. The "Affiliated Transactions" section of the FBCA generally requires majority approval by disinterested directors or supermajority approval by disinterested shareholders of certain specified transactions (such as mergers, consolidations, sales of assets, issuance or transfer of shares or reclassifications of securities) between a corporation and a holder of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of the corporation, or any affiliate of such shareholder. Finally, we have agreements with three of our executive officers that provide for significant payments to those executives upon a change in control under certain circumstances. The existence of these contracts may make an acquisition of our company less attractive to a possible buyer. Conflict or turmoil in oil producing countries could impact future prices for commodities including natural gas, propane gas and electricity, and increases in these prices could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Worldwide turmoil could cause the cost of crude oil and its associated products to rise on concerns of the conflicts interfering with the production of crude oil. If these conflicts are large, escalate or spread, the impact to the cost of all fuel related commodities could increase substantially. These increases could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 