Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our future results may be affected by a number of factors over which we have little or no control. The following issues, uncertainties, and risks, among others, should be considered in evaluating our business and growth outlook. Additional risks not currently identified or known to us could also negatively impact our business or financial results. This Form 10-K and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by us contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that we believe in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual results. Investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. The words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “scheduled,” and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K and in other publications may turn out to be wrong. Statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect the outcome of our forward-looking statements. Factors that we currently believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set out below. In addition to the risk factors described below, we urge you to read our “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry and Operations Our business faces many competitors in our markets. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competition ranges from large public and private companies to independent and local aggregate producers and ready mix manufacturers. Many factors affect the competitive environments in our markets, including the number of competitors in the market, the pricing policies of those competitors, the financial strength of those competitors, potential product substitutes, the total production capacity serving the market, the barriers that potential competitors face to enter the market, the proximity of natural resources to the market, as well 6 Table of Contents as economic conditions and product demand within the market. Such factors come together in each of our markets in varying ways, sometimes in ways that adversely impact demand for our products and our results of operations. Our business is dependent on the cyclical construction industry. Substantially all of our sales are to the construction industry. Our results depend heavily on residential, commercial and infrastructure construction activity and spending levels in our markets. The construction industry in our markets tends to be cyclical. Construction activity and spending levels vary across our markets and are influenced by interest rates, inflation, consumer spending habits, demographic shifts, environmental laws and regulations, employment levels and the availability of funds for public infrastructure projects. Economic downturns may lead to recessions in the construction industry, either in individual markets or nationally. A reduction in construction activity in our markets can result in reduced revenues and profitability. Since our industry is capital intensive, a large portion of our costs are fixed. As sales volumes decrease, our operating profit margin will decrease due to this fixed cost component except to the extent we are able to increase prices or reduce costs. Our results vary depending on levels of infrastructure and other public construction. During fiscal 2007, 10 to 15% of our sales were from public works projects related to roads, highways and bridges. Any significant loss of funding or decrease in state and federal funding of these projects could have a significant effect on our volumes, sales and profitability. Our operations are heavily concentrated in the state of Florida. During fiscal 2007, 60% of our sales were within the state of Florida. As a result, fluctuations in the rate of growth in Florida can have a significant impact on our profitability. During fiscal 2007, approximately 30-35% of our business in Florida related to residential construction. Future results are likely to be significantly influenced by the level of homebuilding activity in Florida. Fluctuation in interest rates and consumer confidence affect the construction industry. Increases in interest rates and declines in consumer confidence may reduce residential and commercial construction activity, which could reduce our sales, volumes and profitability. Adverse weather lessens demand for our products, which is seasonal in many of our markets. The aggregates and concrete products business is conducted outdoors. Construction activity, and thus demand for our products, decreases substantially during periods of cold weather or when heavy or sustained rains fall. Our operations are seasonal, with sales generally peaking during the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year because of normally better weather conditions. However, high levels of rainfall can adversely impact our operations during this period as well. Adverse weather conditions can reduce our revenues and profitability if they occur with unusual intensity, during abnormal periods, or last longer than usual in our major markets, especially during peak construction periods. Severe weather such as hurricanes or tropical storms can damage our facilities, resulting in increased repair costs and business disruption. Our business is capital intensive, resulting in significant fixed costs. The cost to acquire reserves and to construct and operate our plants is very expensive. A significant portion of our costs are fixed expenses due to the capital intensive nature of the industry. As a result, volume changes will have a significant impact on our operating profit percentage and absolute dollars of profit. The capital intensive nature of our business also requires us to have significant liquidity and / or access to credit facilities and to reinvest a significant portion of our cash flow. 7 Table of Contents To operate our business we consume large amounts of electricity and diesel fuel which are subject to price fluctuations and shortages. We consume significant amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, coal and natural gas in our production and distribution process. The price and availability of energy are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside our control. The supply and price of these products can be affected by hurricanes and tropical storms, particularly in the Gulf Coast region. Fluctuations in the prices of these commodities and disruptions in supply can have a significant impact on our operations. Changes in the cost or availability of raw materials supplied by third parties may adversely affect our operating and financial performance. We generally maintain our own reserves of aggregates that we use to manufacture our products. We also produce a significant amount of the cement that we use in our concrete business. We do depend on third parties to supply us with aggregates and cement in some regions. For example, our Northern Concrete operations purchase all of their cement from third parties. We may in the future be unable to secure an economical source of supply due to any number of factors, including limited supplies, increased demand in domestic or international markets and limited transportation facilities. If this happens, our costs to procure these materials may increase significantly or we may be obliged to procure alternatives to replace these materials. Currency exchange rates also affect the cost and availability of imported cement, clinker, slag, gypsum and ocean freight. Our long-term success is dependent upon securing and maintaining aggregate reserves in growth markets. Construction aggregates are expensive to transport and often must be supplied from local quarries. New aggregate sites may take several years to permit. Therefore, it is important to develop and maintain long-term reserves in growth markets. Our strategy is to secure additional land and permits in target markets where possible, and to develop the distribution network to transport aggregates by truck, rail and water in order to maintain economic sources of supply. As urban sprawl continues, it reduces the opportunities for locating long-term reserves and increases the opportunity for community opposition to new and existing operations. As communities grow, existing quarry locations may be depleted, or quarry production may be restricted by additional regulation and some of the most attractive sites for new quarries may be used for other building, or may be difficult to permit for quarrying. Our long-term success is dependent on securing and maintaining mining permits. Tighter land use or zoning restrictions affecting existing quarry permits or making new quarry permits more difficult to obtain could also restrict our ability to conduct our businesses economically. Legal challenges to existing permits could restrict our ability to utilize existing quarry reserves. As discussed in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, a court ruled that our quarry permit for South Florida’s Lake Belt region was invalid and ordered us to cease mining in July 2007, pending the Corps issuing a Supplemental Environmental Impact Study. While mining has ceased in this area of Florida, earnings are reduced, which could require us to take a charge related to the impairment of the value of the related assets and has disrupted, at least temporarily, our sources of aggregates supply in certain Florida markets. Our future growth is also partially dependent on acquiring other business in our industry and integrating them with our existing operations. As a result of the limited opportunities to establish new quarries, expansion of our business is dependent in part on acquisition of existing businesses that own aggregate reserves. Our future results will be dependent in part on our ability to successfully integrate these businesses into Florida Rock. 8 Table of Contents Our products are shipped by rail, truck, barge or ship, usually by third parties. Significant delays, availability of transportation or fluctuations in cost can materially affect our business. Delivery of our product is via truck, rail or barge and primarily by third party providers. The cost of these services is outside our control and can cause our products to have a competitive disadvantage. The timing of delivery is outside our control and distribution of our product is subject to interruption of rail and barge service. Additionally, unfavorable weather conditions can cause interruption in the delivery of our product, especially by rail and barge. If we are unable to ship our products as a result of the railroads or shipping or trucking companies failing to operate or if there are material changes in the cost or availability of rail, shipping or trucking services, we may not be able to arrange alternative and timely means to ship our products, which could lead to interruptions or slowdowns in our businesses. Our future is dependent on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. The ability to attract, develop and retain our qualified work force is a significant factor in our success. The competition for our work force is high. Our success in attracting and retaining our work force is dependent on the availability and skills of our workers in our markets, the availability of other jobs in our markets and the ability to offer competitive salary and benefit packages. Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning land use, environmental and other areas of the laws and litigation to these markets, impact our business. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. Our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations related to zoning, land use and environmental matters. Despite our compliance efforts there is the inherent risk of liability in the operation of our business especially from an environmental standpoint. These potential liabilities could have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. Our operations require numerous governmental approvals and permits, which often require us to make significant capital and maintenance expenditures to comply with zoning and environmental laws and regulations. Stricter laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment, or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities. Occupational health and safety risks and regulations may have an impact on future productivity and financial performance. Our operations involve risk of manufacturing accidents, storage tank leakage, accidents from the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery, and exposure to dust, silica, asbestos, arsenic and other naturally occurring elements. These operating risks can cause personal injury and property damage. These risks can have an adverse effect on productivity and profitability at an operating location. Litigation could affect our profitability. The nature of our business exposes us to various litigation matters including product liability claims (including product liability claims relating to prestress beams), employment, health and safety matters, environmental matters, regulatory and administrative proceedings, governmental investigations, tort claims and contract disputes. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of existing or future litigation. Although we make accruals as we believe warranted, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we actually pay due to the inherent uncertainties in the estimation process. 9 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to the Merger with Vulcan Materials Company Florida Rock shareholders may not receive the form of merger consideration that they elect for all their shares and may receive in part a form of consideration that has lower value. The merger agreement contains provisions that are designed to ensure that, in the aggregate, 70% of Florida Rock shares will be converted into cash and 30% of Florida Rock shares will be converted into Holdco common shares. The value of the cash consideration at the time of the merger may be higher than the value of the share consideration at such time, or vice versa. If elections are made by Florida Rock shareholders to receive more cash or more shares of Holdco than these percentages, either those electing to receive cash or those electing to receive shares of Holdco, respectively, will have the consideration of the type they selected reduced by a pro rata amount, and will receive a portion of their consideration in the form that they did not elect to receive. Accordingly, it is likely that a substantial number of Florida Rock shareholders will not receive a portion of the merger consideration in the form that they elect and that the consideration they do receive will have a lower value than what they elected to receive. Because the exchange ratio is fixed, the market value of Holdco common stock issued to Florida Rock shareholders may be less than the value of their shares of Florida Rock common stock. Florida Rock shareholders who receive shares in the Florida Rock merger will receive a fixed number of shares of common stock of Holdco rather than a number of shares with a particular fixed market value. The market values of Vulcan and Florida Rock common stock at the time of the merger vary significantly from their prices on the date the merger agreement was executed. Because the exchange ratio will not be adjusted to reflect any changes in the market value of Vulcan or Florida Rock common stock, the market value of the Holdco common stock issued in the Florida Rock merger surrendered in the Florida Rock merger will be lower than the value of such shares on the date the merger agreement was executed and likely will be lower than the $67.00 to be paid to Florida Rock shareholders in the cash portion of the Florida Rock merger. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger, which could adversely affect the value of Holdco stock. The merger involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently. Vulcan and Florida Rock expect the combined company to result in financial and operational benefits, including enhanced earnings growth, overhead savings, operating cost savings and other synergies. However, to realize the anticipated benefits from the merger, we must successfully combine the businesses of Vulcan and Florida Rock in a manner that permits this earnings growth and cost savings. In addition, we must achieve these savings without adversely affecting revenues. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The failure to integrate successfully Vulcan’s and Florida Rock’s businesses and operations in the expected timeframe may adversely affect Holdco’s future results. Vulcan and Florida Rock have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. Vulcan and Florida Rock will face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating their organizations, procedures and operations in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key Vulcan and Florida Rock personnel. The integration of Vulcan and Florida Rock will be costly, complex and time consuming. The integration process and other disruptions from the merger transaction could be more costly than we expect or result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, 10 Table of Contents procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Integrating Vulcan and Florida Rock may divert management’s attention away from operations. Successful integration of Vulcan’s and Florida Rock’s organizations, procedures and operations may place a significant burden on the management of Vulcan and Florida Rock and their internal resources. The integration efforts could divert management’s focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters during the integration process. Vulcan’s incurrence of additional debt to pay the cash portion of the merger consideration will significantly increase Vulcan’s interest expense, financial leverage and debt service requirements. Vulcan anticipates borrowing approximately $3.3 billion to $3.4 billion in order to pay for Florida Rock common stock and acquisition related transaction costs. Incurrence of this new debt will significantly increase the combined company’s leverage. While management believes Holdco’s cash flows will be adequate to service this debt, there may be circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this new debt could adversely affect Holdco’s cash flows and operating results, and therefore the market price of Holdco stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 11 Table of Contents 