risk factors set forth below and those referenced herein to other Items contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Item 1. Business, under the headings “Customers and Coal Contracts,” “Competition,” “Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and Regulations,” Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”), under the headings “Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions,” “Certain Trends and Uncertainties” and elsewhere in MD&A. We could be negatively impacted by the competitiveness of the markets in which we compete and declines in the market demand for coal. We compete with coal producers in various regions of the United States and overseas for domestic and international sales. Continued domestic demand for our coal and the prices that we will be able to obtain primarily will depend upon coal consumption patterns of the domestic electric utility industry and the domestic steel industry. Consumption by the domestic utility industry is affected by the demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, technological developments and the price of competing coal and alternative fuel supplies including nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable energy sources, including hydroelectric power. Consumption by the domestic steel industry is primarily affected by economic growth and the demand for steel used in construction as well as appliances and automobiles. In recent years, the competitive environment for coal was impacted by sustained growth in a number of the largest markets in the world, including the United States, China, Japan and India, where demand for both electricity and steel supported pricing for steam and metallurgical coal. The economic stability of these markets has a significant effect on the demand for coal and the level of competition in supplying these markets. The cost of ocean transportation and the value of the United States dollar in relation to foreign currencies significantly impact the relative attractiveness of our coal as we compete on price with other foreign coal producing sources. During the last several years, the United States coal industry has experienced increased consolidation, which has contributed to the industry becoming more competitive. Increased competition by competing coal producers or producers of alternate fuels in the markets in which we serve could cause a decrease in demand and/or pricing for our coal, adversely impacting our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Portions of our coal reserves possess quality characteristics that enable us to mine, process and market them as either metallurgical coal or high quality steam coal, depending on the prevailing conditions in the markets for metallurgical and steam coal. A decline in the metallurgical market relative to the steam market could cause us to shift coal from the metallurgical market to the steam market, potentially reducing the price we could obtain for this coal and adversely impacting our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Demand for our coal depends on its price and quality and the cost of transporting it to our customers. Coal prices are influenced by a number of factors and may vary dramatically by region. The two principal components of the price of coal are the price of coal at the mine, which is influenced by mine operating costs and coal quality, and the cost of transporting coal from the mine to the point of use. The cost of mining the coal is influenced by geologic characteristics such as seam thickness, overburden ratios and depth of underground reserves. Underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher costs for labor (including reserves for future costs associated with labor benefits and health care) and capital costs (including costs for mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems). As of January 31, 2010, we operated 42 active underground mines, including two which employ both room and pillar and longwall mining, and 14 active surface mines, with 12 highwall miners. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the delivered cost of coal and, as a result, the cost of delivery is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy. Such increases could have a material impact on our ability to compete with other energy sources and on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Conversely, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition from coal producers in other parts of the country or the world, including coal imported into the United States. For instance, coal mines in the western United States could become an increasingly attractive source of coal to consumers in the eastern part of the United States if the costs of transporting coal from the west were significantly reduced and/or rail capacity was increased. A significant decline in coal prices in general could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Our results are highly dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal. Decreased demand for coal, both domestically and internationally, could cause spot prices and the prices we are able to negotiate on long-term contracts to decline. The 24 lower prices could negatively affect our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition, if we are unable to increase productivity and/or decrease costs in order to maintain our margins. We depend on continued demand from our customers. Reduced demand from or the loss of our largest customers could have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve projected revenue. Decreases in demand may result from, among other things, a reduction in consumption by the electric generation industry and/or the steel industry, the availability of other sources of fuel at cheaper costs and a general slow-down in the economy. When our contracts with customers expire, there can be no assurance that the customers either will extend or enter into new long-term contracts or, in the absence of long-term contracts, that they will continue to purchase the same amount of coal as they have in the past or on terms, including pricing terms, as favorable as under existing arrangements. In the event that a large customer account is lost or a long-term contract is not renewed, profits could suffer if alternative buyers are not willing to purchase our coal on comparable terms. There may be adverse changes in price, volume or terms of our existing coal supply agreements. Many of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that permit the parties to adjust the contract price upward or downward at specified times. These contracts may be adjusted based on inflation or deflation and/or changes in the factors affecting the cost of producing coal, such as taxes, fees, royalties and changes in the laws regulating the mining, production, sale or use of coal. In a limited number of contracts, failure of the parties to agree on a price under those provisions may allow either party to terminate the contract. Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer for the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, grindability and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. Our financial condition may be adversely affected if we are required by some of our customers to provide performance assurances for certain below-market sales contracts. Contracts covering a significant portion of our contracted sales tons contain provisions that could require us to provide performance assurances if we experience a material adverse change or, under certain other contracts, if the customer believes our creditworthiness has become unsatisfactory. Generally, under such contracts, performance assurances are only required if the contract price per ton of coal is below the current market price of the coal. In addition, we may from time to time enter into coal sale agreements that require a posting of collateral to the extent we are “out of the money” on the total contracted sales in excess of $15 million (as of December 31, 2009, no posting was required). Certain of the contracts limit the amount of performance assurance to a per ton amount in excess of the contract price, while others have no limit. The performance assurances are generally provided by the posting of a letter of credit, cash collateral, other security, or a guaranty from a creditworthy guarantor. As of December 31, 2009, we have not received any requests from any of our customers to provide performance assurances. If we are required to post performance assurances on some or all of our contracts with performance assurances provisions, there could be a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. The level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our contracts and agreements. At December 31, 2009, we had $1,319.1 million of total indebtedness outstanding, which represented 51.2% of our total book capitalization. We have significant debt, lease and royalty obligations. Our ability to satisfy debt service, lease and royalty obligations and to effect any refinancing of indebtedness will depend upon future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions in the markets that we serve as well as financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings, or other financings may be unavailable in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our debt service, lease and royalty payment obligations or our other liquidity needs. We also may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future under the terms of our $175 million asset-based loan credit facility (“ABL Facility”) or by other means. Our ABL Facility provides for a revolving line of credit of up to $175.0 million, of which $98.4 million was available as of December 31, 2009. The addition of new debt to our current debt levels could increase the related risks that we now face. Our relative amount of debt could have material consequences to our business, including, but not limited to: (i) making it more difficult to satisfy debt covenants and debt service, lease payments and other obligations; (ii) making it more difficult 25 to pay quarterly dividends as we have in the past; (iii) increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; (iv) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements; (v) reducing the availability of cash flows from operations to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; (vi) limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industry in which we compete; or (vii) placing us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors with relatively lower amounts of debt. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our debt payment obligations. The covenants in our credit facility and the indentures governing debt instruments impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our ABL Facility contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that may limit our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: (1) incur additional indebtedness; (2) increase common stock dividends above specified levels; (3) make loans and investments; (4) prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; (5) engage in mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions; (6) engage in affiliate transactions; (7) create any lien or security interest in any real property or equipment; (8) engage in sale and leaseback transactions; and (9) make distributions from subsidiaries. A decline in our operating results or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in us being unable to comply with certain covenants contained in the ABL Facility, which become operative only when our Average Excess Availability (as defined in the ABL Facility) is less than $30 million. These financial covenants include a Minimum Consolidated Fixed Charge Ratio of 1.00 to 1.00 and a minimum Consolidated Net Worth of $550 million under the terms of the ABL Facility (currently approximately $400 million as adjusted for Accounting Changes). The indentures governing certain of our senior notes also contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that may limit our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: (1) incur additional indebtedness; (2) subordinate indebtedness to other indebtedness unless such subordinated indebtedness is also subordinated to the notes; (3) pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our stock or subordinated indebtedness; (4) make investments; (5) sell assets and issue capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; (6) incur liens; (7) enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; (8) enter into sale and leaseback transactions; (9) enter into transactions with affiliates; and (10) consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. If we violate these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers from our lenders, our debt under these agreements would be in default and could be accelerated by the lenders and, in the case of an event of default under our ABL Facility, it could permit the lenders to foreclose on our assets securing the loans under the ABL Facility. If the indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our debt is in default for any reason, our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to our shareholders and holders of our senior notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. We are subject to being adversely affected by the potential inability to renew or obtain surety bonds. Federal and state laws require bonds to secure our obligations to reclaim lands used for mining, to pay federal and state workers’ compensation and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. These bonds are typically renewable annually. Surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds or may demand additional collateral upon those renewals. We are also subject to increases in the amount of surety bonds required by federal and state laws as these laws change or the interpretation of these laws changes. Our failure to maintain, or inability to acquire, surety bonds that are required by state and federal law would have a material adverse impact on us, possibly by prohibiting us from developing properties that we desire to develop. That failure could result from a variety of factors including the following: (i) lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; (ii) restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of our senior notes or revolving credit facilities; (iii) our inability to meet certain financial tests with respect to a portion of the post-mining reclamation bonds; and (iv) the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew or issue new bonds. We depend on our ability to continue acquiring and developing economically recoverable coal reserves. A key component of our future success is our ability to continue acquiring coal reserves for development that have the geological characteristics that allow them to be economically mined. Replacement reserves may not be available or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristics of the depleting mines. An inability to continue acquiring economically recoverable coal reserves could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. 26 We face numerous uncertainties in estimating economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of economically recoverable coal reserves, including many factors beyond our control. As a result, estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves are by their nature uncertain. Information about our reserves consists of estimates based on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by us. Some of the factors and assumptions that impact economically recoverable reserve estimates include: (1) geological conditions; (2) historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; (3) the effects of regulations and taxes by governmental agencies; (4) future prices; and (5) future operating costs. Each of these factors may vary considerably from the assumptions used in estimating reserves. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of coal attributable to a particular group of properties may vary substantially. As a result, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variances may be material. Mining in Central Appalachia is more complex and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in other areas of the United States, which could affect our mining operations and cost structures in these areas. The geological characteristics of Central Appalachian coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. In addition, as compared to mines in other regions, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements are more costly and time consuming to satisfy. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of, and our customers' ability to use coal produced by, our mines in Central Appalachia. Defects in title or loss of any leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to mine our properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. A significant portion of our mining operations occurs on properties that we lease. Title defects or the loss of leases could adversely affect our ability to mine the reserves covered by those leases. Our current practice is to obtain a title review from a licensed attorney prior to leasing property. We generally have not obtained title insurance in connection with acquisitions of coal reserves. In some cases, the seller or lessor warrants property title. Separate title confirmation sometimes is not required when leasing reserves where mining has occurred previously. Our right to mine some of our reserves may be adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist. In order to obtain leases to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may have to incur unanticipated costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new leases for properties containing additional reserves, or maintain our leasehold interests in properties where we have not commenced mining operations during the term of the lease. If the coal industry experiences overcapacity in the future, our profitability could be impaired. An increase in the demand for coal could attract new investors to the coal industry, which could spur the development of new mines, and result in added production capacity throughout the industry. Higher price levels of coal could also encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. Any resulting increases in capacity could reduce coal prices and reduce our margins. An inability of brokerage sources or contract miners to fulfill the delivery terms of their contracts with us could reduce our profitability. We sometimes obtain coal from brokerage sources and contract miners to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. Some of our brokerage sources and contract miners may experience adverse geologic mining, escalated operating costs and/or financial difficulties that make their delivery of coal to us at the contracted price difficult or uncertain. Our profitability or exposure to loss on transactions or relationships such as these may be affected based upon the reliability of the supply or the ability to substitute, when economical, third-party coal sources, with internal production or coal purchased in the market and other factors. 27 Decreased availability or increased costs of key equipment, supplies or commodities such as diesel fuel, steel, explosives, magnetite and tires could decrease our profitability. Our operations are dependant on reliable supplies of mining equipment, replacement parts, explosives, diesel fuel, tires, magnetite and steel-related products (including roof bolts). If the cost of any mining equipment or key supplies increases significantly, or if they should become unavailable due to higher industry-wide demand or less production by suppliers, there could be an adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. The supplier base providing mining materials and equipment has been relatively consistent in recent years, although there continues to be consolidation. This consolidation has resulted in a situation where purchases of explosives and certain underground mining equipment are concentrated with single suppliers. In recent years, mining industry demand growth has exceeded supply growth for certain surface and underground mining equipment and heavy equipment tires. As a result, lead times for certain items have generally increased. Transportation disruptions could impair our ability to sell coal. We are dependent on our transportation providers to provide access to markets. Disruption of transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts, fuel shortages or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to customers. Our ability to ship coal could be negatively impacted by a reduction in available and timely rail service. Lack of sufficient resources to meet a rapid increase in demand, a greater demand for transportation to export terminals and rail line congestion all could contribute to a disruption and slowdown in rail service. We continue to experience rail service delays and disruptions in service which are negatively impacting our ability to deliver coal to customers and which may adversely affect our results of operations. Severe weather may affect our ability to mine and deliver coal. Severe weather, including flooding and excessive ice or snowfall, when it occurs, can adversely affect our ability to produce, load and transport coal, which may negatively impact our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Federal, state and local laws and government regulations applicable to operations increase costs and may make our coal less competitive than other coal producers. We incur substantial costs and liabilities under increasingly strict federal, state and local environmental, health and safety and endangered species laws, regulations and enforcement policies. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from our operations. The costs of compliance with applicable regulations and liabilities assessed for compliance failure could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. New legislation and new regulations may be adopted which could materially adversely affect our mining operations, cost structure or our customers’ ability to use coal. New legislation and new regulations may also require us, as well as our customers, to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) has undertaken broad initiatives to increase compliance with emissions standards and to provide incentives to our customers to decrease their emissions, often by switching to an alternative fuel source or by installing scrubbers or other expensive emissions reduction equipment at their coal-fired plants. Concerns about the environmental impacts of coal combustion, including perceived impacts on global climate change, are resulting in increased regulation of coal combustion in many jurisdictions, and interest in further regulation, which could significantly affect demand for our products. The Clean Air Act and similar state and local laws extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants, which are the largest end-users of our coal. Such regulation may require significant emissions control expenditures for many coal-fired power plants. As a result, the generators may switch to other fuels that generate less of these emissions or install more effective pollution control equipment, possibly reducing future demand for coal and the construction of coal-fired power plants. The majority of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. 28 Global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. Widely publicized scientific reports, such as the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released in 2007, have also engendered widespread concern about the impacts of human activity, especially fossil fuel combustion, on global climate change. A considerable and increasing amount of attention in the United States is being paid to global climate change and to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly from coal combustion by power plants. According to the EIA report, “Emissions of Greenhouse Gases in the United States 2007,” coal combustion accounts for 30% of man-made greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. Legislation was introduced in Congress in the past several years to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the United States and, although no bills to reduce such emissions have yet to pass both houses of Congress, bills to reduce such emissions remain pending and others are likely to be introduced. President Obama campaigned in favor of a “cap-and-trade” program to require mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reductions and since his election has continued to express support for such legislation, contrary to the previous administration. The United States Supreme Court’s 2007 decision in Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency ruled that EPA improperly declined to address carbon dioxide impacts on climate change in a rulemaking related to new motor vehicles. The reasoning of the court decision could affect other federal regulatory programs, including those that directly relate to coal use. In July 2008, EPA published an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPR) seeking comments regarding the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions; and in February 2009 the newly appointed administrator of EPA granted a petition by environmental advocacy groups to reconsider an interpretive memorandum by her predecessor in December 2008 that concluded the Clean Air Act’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration program does not extend to carbon dioxide emissions, a decision that could lead to carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants being a consideration in permitting decisions. In addition, a growing number of states in the United States are taking steps to require greenhouse gas emissions reductions from coal-fired power plants. Enactment of laws and promulgation of regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions by the United States or some of its states, or other actions to limit carbon dioxide emissions, could result in electric generators switching from coal to other fuel sources. In December 2009, 192 countries attended the Copenhagen Climate Change Summit to discuss actions to be taken to combat global climate change. Leaders from more than two dozen countries representing over 80 percent of the world’s SO2 emissions negotiated the Copenhagen Accord, which puts a non-binding expectation on all of the major emitting countries to officially record their commitments to reduce SO2 emissions by January 31, 2010. The United States participated in the conference and stated a goal to reduce emissions in the range of 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020, 42 percent below 2005 levels by 2030, and 83 percent below 2005 levels by 2050, which is substantially in line with the energy and climate legislation passed by the United States House of Representatives in 2009. The ultimate outcome of the Copenhagen Accord and any treaty or other arrangement ultimately adopted by the United States or other countries, may have a material adverse impact on the global supply and demand for coal. This is particularly true if cost effective technology for the capture and sequestration of carbon dioxide is not sufficiently developed. Technologies that may significantly reduce emissions into the atmosphere of greenhouse gases from coal combustion, such as carbon capture and sequestration (which captures carbon dioxide at major sources such as power plants and subsequently stores it in nonatmospheric reservoirs such as depleted oil and gas reservoirs, unmineable coal seams, deep saline formations, or the deep ocean) have attracted and continue to attract the attention of policy makers, industry participants, and the public. For example, in July 2008, EPA proposed rules that would establish, for the first time, requirements specifically for wells used to inject carbon dioxide into geologic formations. No regulations have been promulgated yet, but the issue of carbon sequestration results in considerable uncertainty, not only regarding rules that may become applicable to carbon dioxide injection wells but also concerning liability for potential impacts of injection, such as groundwater contamination or seismic activity. In addition, technical, environmental, economic, or other factors may delay, limit, or preclude large-scale commercial deployment of such technologies, which could ultimately provide little or no significant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from coal combustion. Further developments in connection with legislation, regulations or other limits on greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts from coal combustion, both in the United States and in other countries where we sell coal, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Our operations may adversely impact the environment which could result in material liabilities to us. The processes required to mine coal may cause certain impacts or generate certain materials that might adversely affect the environment from time to time. The mining processes we use could cause us to become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. 29 Certain coal that we mine needs to be cleaned at preparation plants, which generally require coal refuse areas and/or slurry impoundments. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation and monitoring. Slurry impoundments have been known to fail, releasing large volumes of coal slurry into nearby surface waters and property, resulting in damage to the environment and natural resources, as well as injuries to wildlife. We maintain coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments at a number of our mining complexes. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental impact and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. Drainage flowing from or caused by mining activities can be acidic with elevated levels of dissolved metals, a condition referred to as acid mine drainage (“AMD”). Although we do not currently face material costs associated with AMD, it is possible that we could incur significant costs in the future. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to certain substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could materially and adversely affect us and could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. The Mine Safety and Health Administration (“MSHA”) or other federal or state regulatory agencies may order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ demands. MSHA or other federal or state regulatory agencies may order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed. Our customers may challenge our issuance of force majeure notices in connection with such closures. If these challenges are successful, we may have to purchase coal from third-party sources to satisfy those challenges; negotiate settlements with customers, which may include price reductions, the reduction of commitments or the extension of the time for delivery, terminate customers’ contracts or face claims initiated by our customers against us. The resolution of these challenges could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. We must obtain governmental permits and approvals for mining operations, which can be a costly and time-consuming process, can result in restrictions on our operations, and is subject to litigation that may delay or prevent us from obtaining necessary permits. Our operations are principally regulated under surface mining permits issued pursuant to the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (the “SMCRA”) and state counterpart laws. Such permits are issued for terms of five years with the right of successive renewal. Additionally, the Clean Water Act requires permits for operations that discharge into waters of the United States. Valley fills and refuse impoundments are authorized under permits issued by the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Such permitting under the Clean Water Act has been a frequent subject of litigation by environmental advocacy groups that has resulted in periodic declines in such permits issued by the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Additionally, certain surface mines and preparation plants have permits issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act and state counterpart laws allowing and controlling the discharge of air pollutants. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time-consuming and may result in delays in, or in some instances preclude, the commencement or continuation of development or production operations. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits challenging permits or failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in the suspension, denial or revocation of required permits, which could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract qualified personnel could affect our ability to operate the Company effectively. The successful management of our business is dependent on a number of key personnel. Our future success will be affected by our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. There are no assurances that key personnel will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have an adverse affect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Shortages of skilled labor in the Central Appalachian coal industry may pose a risk in achieving high levels of productivity at competitive costs. Coal mining continues to be a labor-intensive industry. From time to time, we have encountered a shortage of experienced mine workers when the demand and prices for all specifications of coal we mine increased appreciably. During those periods, the hiring of these less experienced workers negatively impacted our productivity and cash costs. A lack of 30 skilled miners could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and cost and our ability to meet current production requirements to fulfill existing sales commitments or to expand production to meet the increased demand for coal. Union represented labor creates an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs. At December 31, 2009, approximately 1.3% of our total workforce was represented by the United Mine Workers of America (the “UMWA”). Our unionized workforce is spread out amongst five of our coal preparation plants. In 2009, these preparation plants handled approximately 15.8% of our coal production. We are currently in the process of negotiating successor collective bargaining agreements for ones that have expired. In connection with these negotiations and with respect to our unionized operations generally, there may be an increased risk of strikes and other labor disputes, as well as higher labor costs. If some or all of our current open shop operations were to become unionized, we could be subject to additional risk of work stoppages, other labor disputes and higher labor costs, which could adversely affect the stability of production and reduce net income. Legislation has been proposed to the United States Congress to enact a law allowing for workers to choose union representation solely by signing election cards (“Card Check”), which would eliminate the use of secret ballots to elect union representation. While the impact is uncertain, if Card Check legislation is enacted into law, it will be administratively easier for the UMWA to unionize coal mines and may lead to more coal mines becoming unionized. Inflationary pressures on supplies and labor may adversely affect our profit margins. Although inflation in the United States has been relatively low in recent years, over the course of the last two to three years, we have been significantly impacted by price inflation in many of the components of our cost of produced coal revenue, such as fuel, steel and labor. If the prices for which we sell our coal do not increase in step with rising costs or if these costs do not decline sufficiently, our profit margins would be reduced and our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition would be adversely affected. We are subject to various legal proceedings, which may have a material effect on our business. We are parties to a number of legal proceedings incident to normal business activities. Some of the allegations brought against us are with merit, while others are not. There is always the potential that an individual matter or the aggregation of many matters could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial position. See Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We have significant reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are materially inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. SMCRA establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of deep mining. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. The estimate of ultimate reclamation liability is reviewed periodically by management and engineers. The estimated liability can change significantly if actual costs vary from assumptions or if governmental regulations change significantly. Our future expenditures for postretirement benefit and pension obligations could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions are incorrect. We are subject to long-term liabilities under a variety of benefit plans and other arrangements with current and former employees. These obligations have been estimated based on actuarial assumptions, including actuarial estimates, assumed discount rates, estimates of life expectancy, expected returns on pension plan assets and changes in healthcare costs. If our assumptions relating to these benefits change in the future or are incorrect, we may be required to record additional expenses, which would reduce our profitability. In addition, future regulatory and accounting changes relating to these benefits could result in increased obligations or additional costs, which could also have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. See also Notes 5, 10 and 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 31 Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we may have to make significant cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. We sponsor a qualified non-contributory defined benefit pension plan, which covers substantially all administrative and non-union employees. We currently expect to make voluntary contributions in 2010 of approximately $20 million. If the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our contributions could be higher than we expect. The value of the assets held in our pension plans has been adversely affected by the recent disruptions in the financial markets, and the applicable discount rates applied in determining our pension liabilities have also been negatively affected by the crisis in the financial markets. As a result, as of December 31, 2009, our annual measurement date, our pension plan was underfunded by $55.6 million (based on the actuarial assumptions used in the application of GAAP). Our pension plans are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). Under ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, has the authority to terminate an underfunded pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event our pension plan is terminated for any reason while the plan is underfunded, we will incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws, the agreements governing our indebtedness and Delaware law may discourage a takeover attempt even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions contained in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could impose impediments to the ability of a third-party to acquire us even if a change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our Board of Directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of Common Stock. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning, generally, that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of Common Stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our Board of Directors. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our Company, and could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of Common Stock. If a “fundamental change” (as defined in the indenture governing the 3.25% convertible senior notes due 2015 (“3.25% Notes”)) occurs, holders of the 3.25% Notes will have the right, at their option, either to convert their 3.25% Notes or require us to repurchase all or a portion of their 3.25% Notes, and holders of the 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2024 (“2.25% Notes”) will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In the event of a “make-whole fundamental change” (as defined in the indenture governing the 3.25% Notes), we also may be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to any 3.25% Notes surrendered for conversion. In addition, the indentures for the convertible notes prohibit us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity is a U.S. entity that assumes our obligations under the convertible notes. Certain of our debt instruments impose similar restrictions on us, including with respect to mergers or consolidations with other companies and the sale of substantially all of our assets. These provisions could prevent or deter a third-party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to you. We may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits from acquisitions we undertake, as acquisitions entail a number of inherent risks. From time to time we expand our business and reserve position through acquisitions of businesses and assets, mergers, joint ventures or other transactions. Such transactions involve various inherent risks, such as: § uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental liabilities) of, acquisition or other transaction candidates; § the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; 32 § the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; § problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business; § the risk of obtaining mining permits for acquired coal assets; and § unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition or other transaction rationale. Any one or more of these and other factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of businesses or assets or could result in unexpected liabilities associated with these acquisitions. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal abroad. We rely on customers in other countries for a portion of our sales, with shipments to countries in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Africa. We compete in these international markets against coal produced in other countries. Coal is sold internationally in United States dollars. As a result, mining costs in competing producing countries may be reduced in United States dollar terms based on currency exchange rates, providing an advantage to foreign coal producers. Currency fluctuations among countries purchasing and selling coal could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal in international markets. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Future terrorist attacks against United States targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting customers may materially adversely affect operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to customers, decreased sales of coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, such disruption may lead to significant increases in energy prices that could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any, or a combination, of these occurrences could have a material impact on cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks, some for which we maintain third-party insurance and some for which we self-insure. Our operations are subject to certain events and conditions that could disrupt operations, including fires and explosions, accidental mine water discharges, coal slurry releases and impoundment failures, natural disasters, equipment failures, maintenance problems and flooding. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of these risks. Even where insurance coverage applies, there can be no assurance that these risks would be fully covered by insurance policies and insurers may contest their obligations to make payments. Failures by insurers to make payments could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. We self-insure our highwall miners and underground equipment, including our longwalls. We do not currently carry business interruption insurance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 33 Item 