Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to, those risk factors set forth below and those referenced herein to other Items contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Item 1. Business, under the headings “Customers and Coal Contracts,” “Competition,” “Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and Regulations,” Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”), under the headings “Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions,” “Certain Trends and Uncertainties” and elsewhere in MD&A. Risks Related to the Cumberland Acquisition We completed the Cumberland Acquisition on April 19, 2010. We have integrated Cumberland’s operations into two new resource groups, Black Mountain Resource Group, which includes operations located in Kentucky and Cumberland Resource Group, which includes operations located in Virginia. As of January 31, 2011, the Black Mountain Resource Group consisted of 13 underground mines, 8 of which were self-operated and five of which were operated by contractors, and one surface mine operated by contractors; the Cumberland Resource Group consisted of 11 underground mines, all of which were self-operated and one surface mine operated by contractors. A portion of Cumberland’s workforce includes contract employees and substantially all of its mining operations occur on properties that it leases. Cumberland’s business, financial c ondition and results of operations are subject to many of the same risks associated with our operations. These risks are discussed in this Form 10-K, and include, but are not limited to the following additional risk factors: We may not realize the expected benefits of the Cumberland Acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. The success of the Cumberland Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating Cumberland’s business with our existing businesses. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating the operations of Cumberland’s business include, among others: ● failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; ● unanticipated issues in integrating Cumberland’s operations with ours; ● unanticipated disruptions in our business, including relationships with customers; ● unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; ● failure to retain key employees; ● failure to retain key customers; ● failure to increase metallurgical coal production or sales; ● operating risks inherent in Cumberland’s business and our business; ● the impact on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”); ● unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; and ● difficulties in fully identifying and evaluating potential liabilities, risks and operating issues. We may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of us and Cumberland had achieved or might achieve separately. In addition, we may not accomplish the integration of Cumberland’s business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. The new obligations of Cumberland becoming part of a public company may require significant resources and management attention. Upon consummation of the Cumberland Acquisition, we acquired a privately-held company that had not previously been required to prepare or file periodic and other reports with the SEC under applicable federal securities laws, to comply with the requirements of the federal securities laws applicable to public companies, including rules and regulations implemented by the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board or to document and assess the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. We will need to include an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting that includes the Cumberland business in our periodic reports by December 31, 2011. Establishing, testing and maintaining an effective system of internal contro l over financial reporting requires significant resources and time commitments on the part of our management and our finance and accounting staff, may require additional staffing and infrastructure investments, could increase our legal, insurance and financial compliance costs and may divert the attention of management. In addition, our actual operating costs may exceed the operating costs set forth in our pro forma financials. Moreover, if we discover aspects of Cumberland’s internal control over financial reporting that require improvement, we cannot be certain that our remedial measures will be effective. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could adversely affect our financial and operating results, investor’s confidence or increase our risk of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to the Merger Until the effective date of the Merger or the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms, we and Alpha are prohibited from entering into certain business combination transactions. During the period that the Merger Agreement is in effect, the Alpha board of directors may not withdraw or adversely modify its recommendation of approval by the Alpha stockholders of the amendment to the Alpha certificate of incorporation and the issuance of shares of Alpha common stock pursuant to the Merger Agreement and our board of directors may not withdraw or adversely modify its recommendation of approval by our stockholders of the Merger, neither board may recommend an acquisition proposal other than the Merger or negotiate or authorize negotiations with a third party regarding an acquisition proposal other than the Merger, except as permitted by certain limited exceptions in the Merger Agreement or required by their fiduciary duties and subject to the other requirements of the Merger Agreement. The foregoing prohibition s could have the effect of delaying other strategic transactions and may, in some cases, make it impossible to pursue other strategic transactions that are available only for a limited time. We and Alpha must obtain required approvals and governmental and regulatory consents to complete the Merger, which, if delayed, not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions, may jeopardize or delay the Merger, result in additional expenditures of money and resources and/or reduce the anticipated benefits of the Merger. The Merger is subject to customary closing conditions. These closing conditions include, among others, the receipt of required approvals of our and Alpha’s respective stockholders and the expiration or termination of all waiting periods under applicable antitrust laws, including the applicable waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (“HSR Act”) and foreign antitrust laws. The governmental agencies from which the parties will seek these approvals have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. As a condition to their approval of the Merger, agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business after consummation of the Merger. These requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions could jeopardize or delay the consummation of the Merger or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the business combination. Neither us nor Alpha has any obligation to complete the Merger if, as a condition to their approval, regulators require any sale, divestiture or disposition of, or prohibition or limitation on the ownership or operation by us or Alpha of any portion of either of our respective business, properties or assets if such actions would have a material adverse effect on Alpha and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or us and our subsidiaries, taken as a whole. Further, no assurance can be given that the required stockholder approvals will be obtained or that the required closing conditions will be satisfied, and, if all required consents and approvals are obtained and the closing conditions are satisfied, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of the approvals. If Alpha agrees to any material requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions in order to obtain any approvals required to consummate the Merger, these requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions could adversely affect Alpha’s ability to integrate its operations with our operations or reduce the anticipated benefits of the Merger. This could result in a failure to consummate the Merger or have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company after consummation of the Merger. We and Alpha will also be obligated to pay certain transaction-related fees and expenses in connection with the Merger, whether or not the Merger is completed. Whether or not the Merger is completed, the announcement and pendency of the Merger could cause disruptions in our and Alpha’s respective businesses, which could have an adverse effect on each of our respective businesses and financial results. Whether or not the Merger is completed, the announcement and pendency of the Merger could cause disruptions in our and Alpha’s respective businesses. Specifically: ● our and Alpha’s current and prospective employees might experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company following the Merger, which might adversely affect the combined company’s ability to retain key managers and other employees; and ● the attention of our and Alpha’s respective management might be directed toward the completion of the Merger. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, we and Alpha have each diverted significant management resources in an effort to complete the Merger and are each subject to restrictions contained in the Merger Agreement on the conduct of each of our respective businesses. If the Merger is not completed, we and Alpha will have incurred significant costs, including the diversion of management resources, for which they will have received little or no benefit. Further, we may be required to pay to Alpha a termination fee of $251 million and Alpha may be required to pay us a termination fee of between $72 million and $360 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated, depending on the specific circumstances of the termination. The combined company may fail to realize the cost savings estimated as a result of the Merger. The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on the combined company’s ability to realize the anticipated synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the businesses of Massey and Alpha. The combined company may never realize these anticipated synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects. Integrating operations will be complex and will require significant efforts and expenditures on the part of both us and Alpha. Employees might leave or be terminated because of the Merger. Management of the combined company might have its attention diverted while trying to integrate operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures. The combined company might experience increased competition that limits its ability to expand its business, and it might not be able to capitalize on expected business opportunities, including retaining current customers. The combined company’s management may be unable to successfully manage the combined company’s exposure to pending and potential litigation. The combined company may be required by its regulators to undertake certain remedial measures upon the closing of the Merger, and the combined company’s management may not be able to successfully implement those and other remedial measures. The combined company may experience difficulties in applying Alpha’s Running Right safety program at our legacy Massey mines and facilities after consummation of the Merger. Moreover, assumptions underlying estimates of expected cost savings may be inaccurate and general industry and business conditions might deteriorate. If any of these factors limit the combined company’s abi lity to integrate the operations of Massey and Alpha successfully or on a timely basis, the expectations of future results of operations, including certain cost savings and synergies expected to result from the Merger, might not be met. In addition, we and Alpha have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with clients, employees or other third parties or the combined company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger or could reduce the combined company’s earnings. The market price of the combined company’s common stock after the Merger might be affected by factors different from, or in addition to, those affecting the market prices of our and Alpha's common stock currently. Our business and Alpha’s business differ and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of the combined company's common stock after the Merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the independent results of operations of each of us and Alpha. The combined company following the Merger may not pay dividends in the foreseeable future, and our current stockholders may have to rely on increases in the trading price of the combined company’s common stock for returns on their investment following the Merger. Our stockholders have historically received quarterly dividends from us, while Alpha stockholders have not historically received regularly paid dividends. The payment of dividends by the combined company after the Merger will be subject to the determination of the combined company’s board of directors. Decisions regarding whether to pay dividends and the amount of any dividends to be paid will be based on compliance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, compliance with agreements governing the combined company’s indebtedness, earnings, cash requirements, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and other factors that the combined company board of directors may consider to be important. As such, the combined company following the Merger may not pay any regular divi dends in the foreseeable future should its board of directors so determine, in which case our former stockholders who become stockholders of Alpha following the Merger would no longer be able to rely on receiving regular dividend payments and they (and other Alpha stockholders) would have to rely on increases in the trading price of the combined company’s common stock for any returns on their investment. Our stockholders will become stockholders of Alpha upon receipt of shares of Alpha common stock, which may change certain rights and privileges our stockholders hold as stockholders of Massey. Our stockholders will receive Alpha common stock as part of the consideration in connection with the Merger. Although Massey and Alpha are incorporated under Delaware law, there are a number of differences between the rights of our stockholders and the rights of Alpha’s stockholders. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS The consummation of the Merger will constitute a change of control under our existing indebtedness and may permit counterparties to other agreements to terminate those agreements. Under our existing credit agreement and instruments governing our 6.875% senior notes due 2013 ("6.875% Notes") and 3.25% convertible senior notes due 2015 ("3.25% Notes"), the Merger will constitute a change of control. Such a change in control will cause the indebtedness under our ABL Facility to become immediately due and payable. Under instruments governing our 6.875% Notes, if a change in control occurs, holders of these notes may require us to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the notes’ principal amount, plus any interest which has accrued and remains unpaid as of the repurchase date. The 6.875% Notes are also redeemable at a price equal to 101.719% of the notes’ principal amount through December 14, 2011, and thereafter at a price equal to 100% of the no tes’ principal amount, in each case, plus any interest that has accrued and remains unpaid on the redemption date. Under the instruments governing our 3.25% Notes, if a change of control occurs, holders of such series of our 3.25% Notes may require us to buy back the notes for a price equal to 100% of the notes’ principal amount, plus any interest that has accrued and remains unpaid as of the repurchase date. The holders of our 3.25% Notes may require us to pay a make-whole conversion premium if less than 90% of the consideration paid to our stockholders is Alpha common stock, as would be the case at current market prices. Alpha intends to redeem the outstanding principal amount of 2.25% senior notes due 2024 ("2.25% Notes"), which are redeemable on or after April 6, 2011, at a price equal to 100% of the notes’ principal amount plus any interest which has accrued and remains unpaid on the redemption date. The combined company may not be able to refinance our existing debt or have sufficient funds available for any repurchases that could be required by a change of control, either of which may have an adverse effect on the value of the combined company’s common stock. In addition, certain of our leases, surety bond indemnity agreements and other agreements permit a counterparty to terminate the agreement because consummation of the Merger would cause a default or violate an anti-assignment, change of control or similar clause. If this happens, the combined company may have to seek to replace any such agreement with a new agreement. We cannot assure our stockholders that the combined company will be able to replace a terminated agreement on comparable terms or at all. Depending on the importance of a terminated agreement to our business, failure to replace that agreement on similar terms or at all may increase the costs to the combined company of operating our business or prevent the combined company from operating part of our business following the Me rger. The combined company’s anticipated level of indebtedness could impact its operations and liquidity, and could, during the period in which debt is outstanding, have important consequences to holders of its common stock. For example, it could: ● cause the combined company to use a portion of its cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for its operations; ● cause the combined company to be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; ● cause the combined company to be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; ● cause the combined company to be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage; ● result in a downgrade in the rating of combined company’s indebtedness which could increase the cost of further borrowings; and ● subject the combined company to interest rate risk because some of its borrowing will be at variable rates of interest. If the combined company following the Merger is unable to comply with restrictions in the proposed Alpha financing package, the indebtedness thereunder could be accelerated. The credit facilities, loan agreements and potential bonds contemplated by the commitment letter received by Alpha will impose restrictions on the combined company following the Merger and require certain payments of principal and interest over time. A failure to comply with these restrictions or to make these payments could lead to an event of default that could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. We cannot make any assurances that the combined company’s future operating results will be sufficient to ensure compliance with the covenants in its agreements or to remedy any such default. In the event of an acceleration of this indebtedness, the combined company may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments. Our and Alpha’s officers and directors may have financial interests in the Merger that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our and Alpha’s respective stockholders. When considering the recommendation of our and Alpha’s respective boards of directors with respect to the Merger, our and Alpha’s respective stockholders should be aware that some of our and Alpha’s directors and executive officers have interests in the Merger that might be different from, or in addition to, their interests as stockholders and the interests of our and Alpha’s stockholders generally. These interests include, among others, potential payments under employment agreements and change in control severance agreements, rights to acceleration of vesting and exercisability of options, and acceleration of vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units and restricted cash units as a result of the Merger and rights to ongoing indemnification and insurance coverage by Alpha for acts or omissions occ urring prior to the Merger. As a result of these interests, these directors and executive officers might be more likely to support and to vote to adopt the Merger Agreement than if they did not have these interests. Stockholders should consider whether these interests might have influenced these directors and executive officers to support or recommend adoption of the Merger Agreement. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS Upon completion of the Merger, our stockholders will receive, in addition to the $10.00 per share cash portion of the Merger consideration, 1.025 shares of Alpha common stock for each share of Common Stock, which will expose our stockholders to the risk of market fluctuations in the price of Alpha common stock. Upon completion of the Merger, our stockholders will receive 1.025 shares of Alpha common stock and $10.00 in cash for each share of Common Stock. The per-share Merger consideration will not be adjusted prior to completion of the Merger for changes in the market price of either Alpha common stock or the Common Stock or for share repurchases or issuances of common stock by Alpha or us. Such market price fluctuations or changes in the number of outstanding shares of Alpha or Common Stock may affect the value that our stockholders will receive upon completion of the Merger. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, many of which are out of our control, including general market and economic conditions, changes in businesses, operations and prospects and regulatory considerations, and r isks discussed in this section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Neither us nor Alpha are permitted to terminate the Merger Agreement or resolicit the vote of either of our or Alpha's respective stockholders solely because of changes in the market price of either of our or Alpha's shares of common stock. The prices of Alpha common stock and Common Stock at the completion of the Merger may vary from their respective prices on the date the Merger Agreement was executed, on the date of this Form 10-K and on the date of the special meetings. As a result, the value represented by the exchange ratio will also vary. Because the date that the Merger becomes effective may be later than the date of the special meetings, at the time of our special meeting, our stockholders will not know the exact market value of Alpha common stock that they will receive upon completion of the Merger. We are subject to contractual restrictions in the Merger Agreement that may hinder operations pending the merger. The Merger Agreement restricts us, without Alpha’s consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the Merger occurs or the Merger Agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. Alpha must incur additional indebtedness to acquire the shares of Common Stock and to refinance our debt following the Merger. We expect that the combined company will be able to make all required principal and interest payments when due, but cannot guarantee it. The combined company’s indebtedness following consummation of the Merger is expected to be higher than the sum of Alpha’s and our current indebtedness. Based upon current levels of operations and anticipated growth and past experience in paying down past acquisitions, we expect that the combined company will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to make all of the principal and interest payments under this indebtedness when such payments are due, but cannot guarantee it. The issuance of shares of Alpha common stock to our stockholders in the Merger will substantially reduce the percentage ownership interest of our current stockholders. If the Merger is consummated, each of our stockholders will become a stockholder of Alpha with a percentage ownership of the combined company that is significantly smaller than the stockholder’s percentage ownership of us prior to the Merger. Based on the number of shares of Common Stock and Alpha common stock outstanding on January 28, 2011, immediately upon completion of the Merger, our current stockholders are expected to hold approximately 46% of the total shares of the combined company. The issuance of shares of Alpha common stock to our stockholders in the Merger will cause a significant reduction in the relative percentage interest of our current stockholders in earnings, voting, liquidation value and book and market value of the combined company. If we are unable to realize the benefits currently ant icipated from the Merger, our stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest without receiving any commensurate benefit. As a result of these reduced ownership percentages, our stockholders will have less influence on the management and policies of the combined company than they now have with respect to us. 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS We and our directors and officers are named parties to a number of actions, including various actions relating to the UBB incident and safety conditions at our mines, and further actions may be filed against us, including by the U.S. Attorney’s Office. A number of actions are pending in Delaware and West Virginia state courts and federal courts relating to safety conditions at our mines, the UBB incident and other related matters. These include derivative actions against our current and former directors and officers. We and our officers and directors may be subject to future claims, including from families of the 29 miners that died in the UBB incident. In addition, the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the federal MSHA in conjunction with the State of West Virginia are currently investigating the UBB incident. The outcomes of these pending and potential claims and investigations are uncertain. Depending on the outcome, these actions could have adverse financial effects or cause reputational harm to us or the combined compan y following the Merger. We or following the Merger, the combined company, may not resolve these claims favorably or may not successfully implement remedial safety measures imposed as a result of some of these actions and investigations. In addition, if the Merger is consummated, plaintiffs in the pending derivative actions against our current and former directors and officers, which we refer to as the derivative plaintiffs, and other plaintiffs who have filed suit challenging the Merger have asserted that, if the Merger is completed the derivative plaintiffs may lose standing to assert those claims. Following the Merger, the combined company will have significantly less cash on hand than Alpha and Massey collectively prior to the Merger, which could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to grow and to perform. Following the Merger, after repayment of certain of our indebtedness and all other pro forma adjustments relating to the Merger, the combined company will have significantly less cash on hand than Alpha and Massey collectively prior to the Merger, which could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to grow and to perform. No assurances can be given as to the actual amount of cash and cash equivalents that the combined company will have on hand following the Merger. Risks Related to Massey We could be negatively impacted by the competitiveness of the markets in which we compete and declines in the market demand for coal. We compete with coal producers in various regions of the United States and overseas for domestic and international sales. Continued domestic demand for our coal and the prices that we will be able to obtain primarily will depend upon coal consumption patterns of the domestic electric utility industry and the domestic steel industry. Consumption by the domestic utility industry is affected by the demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, technological developments and the price of competing coal and alternative fuel supplies including nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable energy sources, including hydroelectric power. Consumption by the domestic steel industry is primarily affected by economic growth and the demand for steel used in construction as well as appliances and automobiles. In recent years, t he competitive environment for coal was impacted by sustained growth in a number of the largest markets in the world, including the United States, China, Japan and India, where demand for both electricity and steel supported pricing for steam and metallurgical coal. The economic stability of these markets has a significant effect on the demand for coal and the level of competition in supplying these markets. The cost of ocean transportation and the value of the United States dollar in relation to foreign currencies significantly impact the relative attractiveness of our coal as we compete on price with other foreign coal producing sources. During the last several years, the United States coal industry has experienced increased consolidation, which has contributed to the industry becoming more competitive. Increased competition by competing coal producers or producers of alternate fuels in the markets in which we serve could cause a decrease in demand and/or pricing for our coal, adversely impacting our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Portions of our coal reserves possess quality characteristics that enable us to mine, process and market them as either metallurgical coal or high quality steam coal, depending on the prevailing conditions in the markets for metallurgical and steam coal. A decline in the metallurgical market relative to the steam market could cause us to shift coal from the metallurgical market to the steam market, potentially reducing the price we could obtain for this coal and adversely impacting our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Demand for our coal depends on its price and quality and the cost of transporting it to our customers. Coal prices are influenced by a number of factors and may vary dramatically by region. The two principal components of the price of coal are the price at the mine, which is influenced by mine operating costs and coal quality, and the cost of transporting coal from the mine to the point of use. The cost of mining the coal is influenced by geologic characteristics such as seam thickness, overburden ratios and depth of underground reserves. Underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher costs for labor (including reserves for future costs associated with labor benefits and health care) and capital costs (including costs for mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems). As of January 31, 2011, we operated 66 active underground mines, including one that employs both room and pillar and longwall mining, and 18 active surface mines, with 12 highwall miners. 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the delivered cost of coal and, as a result, the cost of delivery is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy. Such increases could have a material impact on our ability to compete with other energy sources and on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Conversely, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition from coal producers in other parts of the country or the world, including coal imported into the United States. For instance, coal mines in the western United States could become an increasingly attractive source of coal to consumers in the eastern part of the United States if the costs of transporting coal fro m the west were significantly reduced and/or rail capacity was increased. A significant decline in coal prices in general could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Our results are highly dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal. Decreased demand for coal, both domestically and internationally, could cause spot prices and the prices we are able to negotiate on long-term contracts to decline. The lower prices could negatively affect our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition, if we are unable to increase productivity and/or decrease costs in order to maintain our margins. We depend on continued demand from our customers. Reduced demand from or the loss of our largest customers could have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve projected revenue. Decreases in demand may result from, among other things, a reduction in consumption by the electric generation industry and/or the steel industry, the availability of other sources of fuel at cheaper costs and a general slow-down in the economy. When our contracts with customers expire, there can be no assurance that the customers either will extend or enter into new long-term contracts or, in the absence of long-term contracts, that they will continue to purchase the same amount of coal as they have in the past or on terms, including pricing terms, as favorable as under existing arrangements. In the event that a large customer account is lost or a long-term contract is not renewed, profits could suffer if alternative buyers are not willing to purchase our coal on comparable terms. There may be adverse changes in price, volume or terms of our existing coal supply agreements. Many of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that permit the parties to adjust the contract price upward or downward at specified times (e.g., quarterly, semi-annually, annually or less frequently). A recent trend is for contracts for export metallurgical coal to be re-priced quarterly, rather than the previous standard of annually. These contracts may be adjusted based on inflation or deflation and/or changes in the factors affecting the cost of producing coal, such as taxes, fees, royalties and changes in the laws regulating the mining, production, sale or use of coal. In a limited number of contracts, failure of the parties to agree on a price under those provisions may allow either party to terminate the contract. Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspensi on of performance by us or the customer for the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, grindability and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. Our financial condition may be adversely affected if we are required by some of our customers to provide performance assurances for certain below-market sales contracts. Contracts covering a significant portion of our contracted sales tons contain provisions that could require us to provide performance assurances if we experience a material adverse change or, under certain other contracts, if the customer believes our creditworthiness has become unsatisfactory. Generally, under such contracts, performance assurances are only required if the contract price per ton of coal is below the current market price of the coal. In addition, we may from time to time enter into coal sale agreements that require a posting of collateral to the extent we are “out of the money” on the total contracted sales in excess of $15 million (as of December 31, 2010, no posting was required). Certain of the contracts limit the amount of performance assurance to a per ton amount in excess of the contract price, while others have no limit. The performance assurances are generally provided by the posting of a letter of credit, cash collateral, other security, or a guaranty from a creditworthy guarantor. As of December 31, 2010, we have not received any requests from any of our customers to provide performance assurances. If we are required to post performance assurances on some or all of our contracts with performance assurances provisions, there could be a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS Some of our customers may be unwilling to take all of their contracted tonnage or may request a price lower than their contracted price. Some of our customers may experience lower demand for their products and services due to the weak economy and some may switch to electricity generation from coal burning plants to natural gas plants if the price of natural gas drops low enough. The lower demand for our customers’ products may result in lower demand for the coal used in their business. Any reduction in demand from our customers could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. The level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our contracts and agreements. At December 31, 2010, we had $1,316.2 million of total debt outstanding, which represented 42.5% of our total book capitalization. We have significant debt, lease and royalty obligations. Our ability to satisfy debt service, lease and royalty obligations and to effect any refinancing of debt will depend upon future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions in the markets that we serve as well as financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings, or other financings may be unavailable in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our debt service, lease and royalty payment obligations or our other liquidity needs. We also may be able to incur substantial additional debt in th e future under the terms of our $200 million asset-based loan credit facility (“ABL Facility”) or by other means. Our ABL Facility provides for a revolving line of credit of up to $200.0 million, of which $122.8 million was available as of December 31, 2010. The addition of new debt to our current debt levels could increase the related risks that we now face. Our relative amount of debt could have material consequences to our business, including, but not limited to: (i) making it more difficult to satisfy debt covenants and debt service, lease payments and other obligations; (ii) making it more difficult to pay quarterly dividends as we have in the past; (iii) increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; (iv) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements; (v) reducing the availability of cash flows from operations to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; (vi) limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industry in which we compete; or (vii) p lacing us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors with relatively lower amounts of debt. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our debt payment obligations. The covenants in our credit facility and the indentures governing debt instruments impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our ABL Facility contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that may limit our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: (1) incur additional indebtedness; (2) increase common stock dividends above specified levels; (3) make loans and investments; (4) prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; (5) engage in mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions; (6) engage in affiliate transactions; (7) create any lien or security interest in any real property or equipment; (8) engage in sale and leaseback transactions; and (9) make distributions from subsidiaries. A decline in our operating results or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in us being unable to comply with a Minimum Consolidated Fixed Charge Ratio of 1.00 to 1.00 covenant contained in the ABL Facility, which become operative only when our Average Excess Availability (as defined in the ABL Facility) is less than Minimum Availability Amount ($30 million at December 31, 2010). The indentures governing certain of our senior notes also contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that may limit our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: (1) incur additional indebtedness; (2) subordinate indebtedness to other indebtedness unless such subordinated indebtedness is also subordinated to the notes; (3) pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our stock or subordinated indebtedness; (4) make investments; (5) sell assets and issue capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; (6) incur liens; (7) enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; (8) enter into sale and leaseback transactions; (9) enter into transactions with affiliates; and (10) consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. If we violate these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers from our lenders, our debt under these agreements would be in default and could be accelerated by the lenders and, in the case of an event of default under our ABL Facility, it could permit the lenders to foreclose on our assets securing the loans under the ABL Facility. If the indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our debt is in default for any reason, our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to our stockhol ders and holders of our senior notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are subject to being adversely affected by the potential inability to renew or obtain surety bonds. Federal and state laws require bonds to secure our obligations to reclaim lands used for mining, to pay federal and state workers’ compensation and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. These bonds are typically renewable annually. Surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds or may demand additional collateral upon those renewals. We are also subject to increases in the amount of surety bonds required by federal and state laws as these laws change or the interpretation of these laws changes. Our failure to maintain, or inability to acquire, surety bonds that are required by state and federal law would have a material adverse impact on us, possibly by prohibiting us from developing properties that we desire to develop. That failure could result from a variety of factors including the following: (i) 160;lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; (ii) restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of our senior notes or revolving credit facilities; (iii) our inability to meet certain financial tests with respect to a portion of the post-mining reclamation bonds; and (iv) the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew or issue new bonds. We depend on our ability to continue acquiring and developing economically recoverable coal reserves. A key component of our future success is our ability to continue acquiring coal reserves for development that have the geological characteristics that allow them to be economically mined. Replacement reserves may not be available or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristics of the depleting mines. An inability to continue acquiring economically recoverable coal reserves could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. We face numerous uncertainties in estimating economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of economically recoverable coal reserves, including many factors beyond our control. As a result, estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves are by their nature uncertain. Information about our reserves consists of estimates based on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by us. Some of the factors and assumptions that impact economically recoverable reserve estimates include: (1) geological conditions; (2) historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; (3) the effects of regulations and taxes by governmental agencies; (4) future prices; and (5) future operating costs. Each of these factors may vary considerably from the assumptions used in estimating reserves. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of coal attributable to a particular group of properties may vary substantially. As a result, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variances may be material. Mining in Central Appalachia is more complex and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in other areas of the United States, which could affect our mining operations and cost structures in these areas. The geological characteristics of Central Appalachian coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. In addition, as compared to mines in other regions, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements are more costly and time consuming to satisfy. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of, and our customers’ ability to use coal produced by, our mines in Central Appalachia. Defects in title or loss of any leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to mine our properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. A significant portion of our mining operations occurs on properties that we lease. Title defects or the loss of leases could adversely affect our ability to mine the reserves covered by those leases. Our current practice is to obtain a title review from a licensed attorney prior to leasing property. We generally have not obtained title insurance in connection with acquisitions of coal reserves. In some cases, the seller or lessor warrants property title. Separate title confirmation sometimes is not required when leasing reserves where mining has occurred previously. Our right to mine some of our reserves may be adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist. In order to obtain leases to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may have to incur unanticipated costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new leases for properties containing additional reserves, or maintain our leasehold interests in properties where we have not commenced mining operations during the term of the lease. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS If the coal industry experiences overcapacity in the future, our profitability could be impaired. An increase in the demand for coal could attract new investors to the coal industry, which could spur the development of new mines, and result in added production capacity throughout the industry. Higher price levels of coal could also encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. Any resulting increases in capacity could reduce coal prices and reduce our margins. An inability of brokerage sources or contract miners to fulfill the delivery terms of their contracts with us could reduce our profitability. We sometimes obtain coal from brokerage sources and contract miners to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. Some of our brokerage sources and contract miners may experience adverse geologic mining, escalated operating costs and/or financial difficulties that make their delivery of coal to us at the contracted price difficult or uncertain. Our profitability or exposure to loss on transactions or relationships such as these may be affected based upon the reliability of the supply or the ability to substitute, when economical, third-party coal sources, with internal production or coal purchased in the market and other factors. Decreased availability or increased costs of key equipment, supplies or commodities such as diesel fuel, steel, explosives, magnetite and tires could decrease our profitability. Our operations are dependent on reliable supplies of mining equipment, replacement parts, explosives, diesel fuel, tires, magnetite and steel-related products (including roof bolts). If the cost of any mining equipment or key supplies increases significantly, or if they should become unavailable due to higher industry-wide demand or less production by suppliers, there could be an adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. The supplier base providing mining materials and equipment has been relatively consistent in recent years, although there continues to be consolidation. This consolidation has resulted in a situation where purchases of explosives and certain underground mining equipment are concentrated with single suppliers. In recent years, mining industry demand growth has exceeded supply growt h for certain surface and underground mining equipment and heavy equipment tires. As a result, lead times for certain items have generally increased. Transportation disruptions could impair our ability to sell coal. We are dependent on our transportation providers to provide access to markets. Disruption of transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts, fuel shortages or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to customers. Our ability to ship coal could be negatively impacted by a reduction in available and timely rail service. Lack of sufficient resources to meet a rapid increase in demand, a greater demand for transportation to export terminals and rail line congestion all could contribute to a disruption and slowdown in rail service. Severe weather may affect our ability to mine and deliver coal. Severe weather, including flooding and excessive ice or snowfall, when it occurs, can adversely affect our ability to produce, load and transport coal, which may negatively impact our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Federal, state and local laws and government regulations applicable to operations increase costs and may make our coal less competitive than other coal producers. We incur substantial costs and liabilities under increasingly strict federal, state and local environmental, health and safety and endangered species laws, regulations and enforcement policies. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from our operations. The costs of compliance with applicable regulations and liabilities assessed for compliance failure could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS Although we do not believe we can quantify a specific amount of our capital and operational expenditures related to health and safety regulations, we have undertaken an analysis of our expenditures with the goal of preparing a reasonable estimate of such expenditures. Based on this analysis, we believe a reasonable estimate of capital expenditures related to health and safety regulations is approximately $18.4 million and $24.4 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These capital expenditures were primarily for mine communication systems, mine seals, safety shelters, and self-rescuer caches, requirements that were put in place with the MINER Act. In addition, we believe a reasonable estimate of operational expenditures related to health and safety regulations is approximately $52.2 mill ion and $40.5 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These expenditures include labor and supply costs incurred to support our mine rescue teams, our corporate safety department, safety personnel at our mine sites, the payment of safety bonuses, fire suppression costs, and other general safety supplies. These expenditures do not include certain other capital and operational expenditures related to production that indirectly contribute to the safe operation of our coal mines. Consequently, we believe that our total capital and operational expenditures related to safety are likely in excess of these amounts, and, therefore, represent a substantial cost to us. New legislation and new regulations may be adopted which could materially adversely affect our mining operations, cost structure or our customers’ ability to use coal. New legislation and new regulations may also require us, as well as our customers, to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. The EPA has undertaken broad initiatives to increase compliance with emissions standards and by providing incentives to our customers to decrease their emissions, often by switching to an alternative fuel source, or imposing costs if they do not switch fuels, by requiring them to install scrubbers or other expensive emissions reduction equipment at their coal-fired plants. Our operations may adversely impact the environment which could result in material liabilities to us. The processes required to mine coal may cause certain impacts or generate certain materials that might adversely affect the environment from time to time. The mining processes we use could cause us to become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire claim. Certain coal that we mine needs to be cleaned at preparation plants, which generally require coal refuse areas and/or slurry impoundments. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation and monitoring. Slurry impoundments have been known to fail, releasing large volumes of coal slurry into nearby surface waters and property, resulting in damage to the environment and natural resources, as well as injuries to wildlife. We maintain coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments at a number of our mining complexes. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental impact and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. Drainage flowing from or caused by mining activities can be acidic with elevated levels of dissolved metals, a condition referred to as acid mine drainage (“AMD”). Although we do not currently face material costs associated with AMD, it is possible that we could incur significant costs in the future. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to certain substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could materially and adversely affect us and could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. MSHA or other federal or state regulatory agencies may order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ demands. MSHA or other federal or state regulatory agencies may order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed. Our UBB mine at our Performance resource group in West Virginia is currently closed following the April 5, 2010 explosion, and we cannot predict at this time when it will reopen. Our customers may challenge our issuance of force majeure notices in connection with such closures. If these challenges are successful, we may have to purchase coal from third-party sources to satisfy those challenges; negotiate settlements with customers, which may include price reductions, the reduction of commitments or the extension of the time for delivery; terminate customers’ contracts; and/or face claims initiated by our customers against us. The resolution of these challenges could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS We must obtain governmental permits and approvals for mining operations, which can be a costly and time-consuming process, can result in restrictions on our operations and is subject to litigation that may delay or prevent us from obtaining necessary permits. Our operations are principally regulated under surface mining permits issued pursuant to the SMCRA and state counterpart laws. Such permits are issued for terms of five years with the right of successive renewal. Additionally, the Clean Water Act requires permits for operations that discharge into waters of the United States. Valley fills and refuse impoundments are authorized under permits issued by the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Such permitting under the Clean Water Act has been a frequent subject of litigation by environmental advocacy groups that has resulted in periodic declines in such permits issued by the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Additionally, certain surface mines and preparation plants have permits issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act and state counterpart laws allowing and controlling the discharge of air pollutants. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing of permit issuance. Recently the EPA has taken a more active role in the review of permit applications, resulting in a substantial slow down in the issuance of most mining permits and a virtual standstill in the issuance of surface mining permits. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time-consuming and may result in delays in, or in some instances preclude, the commencement or continuation of development or production operations. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits challenging permits or failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in the suspension, denial or revocation of required permits, which could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract qualified personnel could affect our ability to operate the Company effectively. The successful management of our business is dependent on a number of key personnel. Our future success will be affected by our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. There are no assurances that key personnel will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have an adverse affect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Shortages of skilled labor in the Central Appalachian coal industry may pose a risk in achieving high levels of productivity at competitive costs. Coal mining continues to be a labor-intensive industry. From time to time, we have encountered a shortage of experienced mine workers when the demand and prices for all specifications of coal we mine increased appreciably. During those periods, the hiring of these less experienced workers negatively impacted our productivity and cash costs. A lack of skilled miners could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and cost and our ability to meet current production requirements to fulfill existing sales commitments or to expand production to meet the increased demand for coal. Union represented labor creates an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs. At December 31, 2010, approximately 1.2% of our total workforce was represented by the UMWA. Our unionized workforce is spread out amongst five of our coal preparation plants. In 2010, these preparation plants handled approximately 25% of our coal production. We are currently operating under the terms and conditions of expired agreements. In connection with these negotiations and with respect to our unionized operations generally, there may be an increased risk of strikes and other labor disputes, as well as higher labor costs. If some or all of our current open shop operations were to become unionized, we could be subject to additional risk of work stoppages, other labor disputes and higher labor costs, which could adversely affect the stability of production and reduce net income. Inflationary pressures on supplies and labor may adversely affect our profit margins. Although inflation in the United States has been relatively low in recent years, over the course of the last two to three years, we have been significantly impacted by price inflation in many of the components of our cost of produced coal revenue, such as fuel, steel and labor. If the prices for which we sell our coal do not increase in step with rising costs or if these costs do not decline sufficiently, our profit margins would be reduced and our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition would be adversely affected. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have significant reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are materially inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. SMCRA establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of deep mining. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. The estimate of ultimate reclamation liability is reviewed periodically by management and engineers. The estimated liability can change significantly if actual costs vary from assumptions or if governmental regulations change significantly. Our future expenditures for postretirement benefit and pension obligations could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions are incorrect. We are subject to long-term liabilities under a variety of benefit plans and other arrangements with current and former employees. These obligations have been estimated based on actuarial assumptions, including actuarial estimates, assumed discount rates, estimates of life expectancy, expected returns on pension plan assets and changes in healthcare costs. If our assumptions relating to these benefits change in the future or are incorrect, we may be required to record additional expenses, which would reduce our profitability. In addition, future regulatory and accounting changes relating to these benefits could result in increased obligations or additional costs, which could also have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. See also Notes 9, 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we may have to make significant cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. We sponsor a qualified non-contributory defined benefit pension plan, which covers substantially all administrative and non-union employees. We currently expect to make contributions in 2011 of approximately $20 million. If the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our contributions could be higher than we expect. The value of the assets held in our pension plans was adversely affected by the disruptions in the financial markets that occurred in recent years, and the applicable discount rates applied in determining our pension liabilities have also been negatively affected by the crisis in the financial markets. As a result, as of December 31, 2010, our annual measurement date, our pension plan was underfunded by $79.7 million (based on the actuarial assumptions used in the application of GAAP). Our pension plans are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). Under ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”), has the authority to terminate an underfunded pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event our pension plan is terminated for any reason while the plan is underfunded, we will incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws, the agreements governing our indebtedness and Delaware law may discourage a takeover attempt even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions contained in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could impose impediments to the ability of a third-party to acquire us even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our Board of Directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or othe r rights of holders of Common Stock. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning, generally, that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of Common Stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our Board of Directors. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our Company, and could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of Common Stock. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS If a “fundamental change” (as defined in the indenture governing the 3.25% Notes) occurs, holders of the 3.25% Notes will have the right, at their option, either to convert their 3.25% Notes or require us to repurchase all or a portion of their 3.25% Notes, and holders of the 2.25% Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In the event of a “make-whole fundamental change” (as defined in the indenture governing the 3.25% Notes), we also may be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to any 3.25% Notes surrendered for conversion. In addition, the indentures for the convertible notes prohibit us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity is a U.S. entity that assumes our obligations under the c onvertible notes. Certain of our debt instruments impose similar restrictions on us, including with respect to mergers or consolidations with other companies and the sale of substantially all of our assets. These provisions could prevent or deter a third-party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to you. We may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits from acquisitions we undertake, as acquisitions entail a number of inherent risks. From time to time we expand our business and reserve position through acquisitions of businesses and assets, mergers, joint ventures or other transactions. Such transactions involve various inherent risks, such as: § uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental liabilities) of, acquisition or other transaction candidates; § the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; § the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; § problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business; § the risk of obtaining mining permits for acquired coal assets; and § unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition or other transaction rationale. Any one or more of these and other factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of businesses or assets or could result in unexpected liabilities associated with these acquisitions. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal abroad. We rely on customers in other countries for a portion of our sales, with shipments to countries in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Africa. We compete in these international markets against coal produced in other countries. Coal is sold internationally in United States dollars. As a result, mining costs in competing producing countries may be reduced in United States dollar terms based on currency exchange rates, providing an advantage to foreign coal producers. Currency fluctuations among countries purchasing and selling coal could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal in international markets. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks, civil unrest or acts of war may negatively affect our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks, civil unrest, and acts of war. Future terrorist attacks against United States targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts or civil unrest involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting customers may have a material adverse affect on operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to customers, decreased sales of coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the Un ited States. In addition, such disruptions may lead to significant increases in energy prices that could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any, or a combination, of these occurrences could have a material impact on cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS Coal mining is subject to inherent risks, some for which we maintain third-party insurance and some for which we self-insure. Our operations are subject to certain events and conditions that could disrupt operations, including fires and explosions, accidental mine water discharges, coal slurry releases and impoundment failures, natural disasters, equipment failures, maintenance problems and flooding. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of these risks. Even where insurance coverage applies, there can be no assurance that these risks would be fully covered by insurance policies and insurers may contest their obligations to make payments. Failures by insurers to make payments could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. We self-insure our highwall miners and underground equipment, including our longwall. We do not currently carry business interruption insura nce. Changes in federal or state income tax laws, particularly in the area of percentage depletion, could cause our financial position and profitability to deteriorate. The federal government has been reviewing the income tax laws relating to the coal industry regarding percentage depletion benefits. If the percentage depletion tax benefit was reduced or eliminated, our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition could be materially impacted. We are subject to various legal proceedings, which may have a material effect on our business. We are party to a number of legal proceedings incident to normal business activities. Some of the allegations brought against us are with merit, while others are not. We are also subject to legal proceedings as a result of the April 5, 2010 explosion at our Upper Big Branch mine at our Performance resource group in West Virginia. There is always the potential that an individual matter or the aggregation of many matters could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial position. See Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more complete discussion. Changes in federal or state income tax laws, particularly in the area of percentage depletion, could cause our financial position and profitability to deteriorate. The federal government has been reviewing the income tax laws relating to the coal industry regarding percentage depletion benefits. If the percentage depletion tax benefit was reduced or eliminated, our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition could be materially impacted. 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS 