Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to, those risk factors set forth below and those referenced herein to other Items contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Item 1. Business, under the headings “Customers and Coal Contracts,” “Competition,” “Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and Regulations,” Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”), under the headings “Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions,” “Certain Trends and Uncertainties” and elsewhere in MD&A. We are impacted by the competitiveness of the markets in which we compete and market demand for coal. We compete with coal producers in various regions of the United States and overseas for domestic and international sales. Continued domestic demand for our coal and the prices that we will be able to obtain primarily will depend upon coal consumption patterns of the domestic electric utility industry and the domestic steel industry. Consumption by the domestic utility industry is affected by the demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, technological developments and the price of competing coal and alternative fuel supplies including nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable energy sources, including hydroelectric power. Consumption by the domestic steel industry is primarily affected by economic growth and the demand for steel used in construction as well as appliances and automobiles. In recent years, the competitive environment for coal has been impacted by sustained growth in a number of the largest markets in the world, including the United States, China, Japan and India, where demand for both electricity and steel have supported pricing for steam and metallurgical coal. The cost of ocean transportation and the valuation of the United States dollar in relation to foreign currencies significantly impact the relative attractiveness of our coal as we compete on price with other foreign coal producing sources. See Item 1. Business, under the heading “Competition,” for further discussion. Portions of our coal reserves possess quality characteristics that enable us to mine, process and market them as either metallurgical coal or high quality steam coal, depending on the prevailing conditions in the metallurgical and steam coal industries. A decline in the metallurgical market relative to the steam market could cause us to shift coal from the metallurgical market to the steam market. If demand for metallurgical coal declined to the point where we could earn a more attractive return marketing the coal as steam coal, there could be a material impact on cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Demand for our coal depends on its price and quality and the cost of transporting it to customers. Coal prices are influenced by a number of factors and may vary dramatically by region. The two principal components of the price of coal are the price of coal at the mine, which is influenced by mine operating costs and coal quality, and the cost of transporting coal from the mine to the point of use. The cost of mining the coal is influenced by geologic characteristics such as seam thickness, overburden ratios and depth of underground reserves. Underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher costs for labor (including reserves for future costs associated with labor benefits and health care) and capital costs (including costs for mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems). As of January 31, 2008, we operated 35 active underground mines, including two longwall mines, and 12 active surface mines, with 8 highwall miners. See Item 1. Business, under the headings “Mining Methods,” “Mining Operations” and “Competition” for further discussion. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the delivered cost of coal and, as a result, the cost of delivery is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy. Such increases could have a material impact on our ability to compete with other energy sources and on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Conversely, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition from coal producers in other parts of the country or the world, including coal imported into the United States (several United States ports have announced plans to increase their capacity to import coal). For instance, coal mines in the western United States could become an increasingly attractive source of coal to consumers in the eastern part of the country if the costs of transporting coal from the west were significantly reduced and rail capacity was increased. See Item 1. Business, under the heading “Competition,” for further discussion. A significant decline in coal prices in general could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Our results are highly dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal. Decreased demand for coal, both domestically and internationally, could cause spot prices and the prices we are able to negotiate on long-term contracts to decline. The lower prices could negatively affect our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition, if we are unable to increase productivity and/or decrease costs in order to maintain our margins. 22 We depend on continued demand from our customers. Reduced demand from or the loss of our largest customers could have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve projected revenue. Decreases in demand may result from, among other things, a reduction in consumption by the electric generation industry and/or the steel industry, the availability of other sources of fuel at cheaper costs and a general slow-down in the economy. When our contracts with customers reach expiration, there can be no assurance that the customers either will extend or enter into new long-term contracts or, in the absence of long-term contracts, that they will continue to purchase the same amount of coal as they have in the past or on terms, including pricing terms, as favorable as under existing arrangements. In the event that a large customer account is lost or a long-term contract is not renewed, profits could suffer if alternative buyers are not willing to purchase our coal on comparable terms. There may be adverse changes in price, volume or terms of our existing coal supply agreements. Many of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that permit the parties to adjust the contract price upward or downward at specified times. These contracts may be adjusted based on inflation or deflation and/or changes in the factors affecting the cost of producing coal, such as taxes, fees, royalties and changes in the laws regulating the mining, production, sale or use of coal. In a limited number of contracts, failure of the parties to agree on a price under those provisions may allow either party to terminate the contract. Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, grindability and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. See Item 1. Business, under the heading “Customers and Coal Contracts” for further discussion. Our financial condition may be adversely affected if we are required by some of our customers to provide performance assurances for certain below-market sales contracts. Contracts covering a significant portion of our contracted sales tons contain provisions that could require us to provide performance assurances if we experience a material adverse change or, under certain other contracts, if the customer believes our creditworthiness has become unsatisfactory. Generally, under such contracts, performance assurances are only required if the contract price per ton of coal is below the current market price of the coal. Certain of the contracts limit the amount of performance assurance to a per ton amount in excess of the contract price, while others have no limit. The performance assurances are generally provided by the posting of a letter of credit, cash collateral, other security, or a guaranty from a creditworthy guarantor. As of February 28, 2008, we have not received any requests from any of our customers to provide performance assurances. If we are required to post performance assurances on some or all of our contracts with performance assurances provisions, there could be a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. The level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our contracts and agreements. At December 31, 2007, we had $1,104.5 million of total indebtedness outstanding, which represented 58.5% of our total book capitalization. We have significant debt, lease and royalty obligations. Our ability to satisfy debt service, lease and royalty obligations and to effect any refinancing of indebtedness will depend upon future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions in the markets that we serve as well as financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings, or other financings may be unavailable in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our debt service, lease and royalty payment obligations or our other liquidity needs. Our relative amount of debt could have material consequences to our business, including, but not limited to: (i) making it more difficult to satisfy debt covenants and debt service, lease payments and other obligations; (ii) making it more difficult to pay quarterly dividends as we have in the past; (iii) increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; (iv) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements; (v) reducing the availability of cash flows from operations to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; (vi) limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industry in which we compete; or (vii) placing us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors with relatively lower amounts of debt. The covenants in our credit facility and the indentures governing debt instruments impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our asset based loan credit facility and the indentures governing our notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that may limit our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: (i) incur liens and debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of any other person; (ii) increase Common Stock dividends above specified levels; (iii) make loans and investments; (iv) prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; (v) engage in mergers, consolidations and 23 asset dispositions; (vi) engage in affiliate transactions; (vii) create lien or security interests in any real property or equipment; (viii) engage in sale and leaseback transactions; and (ix) restrict distributions from subsidiaries. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in us being unable to comply with certain debt covenants. If we violate these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers from our lenders, our debt under these agreements would be in default and could be accelerated by the lenders. If the indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our debt is in default for any reason, our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. We depend on our ability to continue acquiring and developing economically recoverable coal reserves. A key component of our future success is our ability to continue acquiring coal reserves for development that have the geological characteristics that allow them to be economically mined. Replacement reserves may not be available or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristics of the depleting mines. An inability to continue acquiring economically recoverable coal reserves could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. We face numerous uncertainties in estimating economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of economically recoverable coal reserves, including many factors beyond our control. As a result, estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves are by their nature uncertain. Information about our reserves consists of estimates based on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by us. Some of the factors and assumptions that impact economically recoverable reserve estimates include: (i) geological conditions; (ii) historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; (iii) the effects of regulations and taxes by governmental agencies; (iv) future prices; and (v) future operating costs. Each of these factors may vary considerably from the assumptions used in estimating reserves. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of coal attributable to a particular group of properties may vary substantially. As a result, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variances may be material. Defects in title or loss of any leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to mine these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. A significant portion of our mining operations occurs on properties that we lease. Title defects or the loss of leases could adversely affect our ability to mine the reserves covered by those leases. Our current practice is to obtain a title review from a licensed attorney prior to leasing property. We generally have not obtained title insurance in connection with acquisitions of coal reserves. In some cases, the seller or lessor warrants property title. Separate title confirmation sometimes is not required when leasing reserves where mining has occurred previously. Our right to mine some of our reserves may be adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist. In order to obtain leases to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may have to incur unanticipated costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new leases for properties containing additional reserves, or maintain our leasehold interests in properties where we have not commenced mining operations during the term of the lease. If the coal industry experiences overcapacity in the future, our profitability could be impaired. An increase in the demand for coal could attract new investors to the coal industry, which could spur the development of new mines, and result in added production capacity throughout the industry. We have announced plans to increase our coal production by approximately 20% over the next three years. Several of our competitors have also announced plans for increases in production capacity over the next several years. Higher price levels of coal could further encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. Any resulting increases in capacity could further reduce coal prices and reduce our margins. See Item 1. Business, under the heading “Competition,” for further discussion. An inability of brokerage sources or contract miners to fulfill the delivery terms of their contracts with us could reduce our profitability. We sometimes obtain coal from brokerage sources and contract miners to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. Some of our brokerage sources may experience adverse geologic mining, escalated operating costs and/or 24 financial difficulties that make their delivery of coal to us at the contracted price difficult or uncertain. Our profitability or exposure to loss on transactions or relationships such as these is dependent upon the reliability of the supply, the ability to substitute, when economical, third-party coal sources with internal production or coal purchased in the market and other factors. Decreased availability or increased costs of key equipment, supplies or commodities such as diesel fuel, steel, explosives and tires could decrease our profitability. Our operations are dependant on reliable supplies of mining equipment, replacement parts, explosives, diesel fuel, tires, and steel-related products (including roof bolts). If the cost of any mining equipment or key supplies increases significantly, or if they should become unavailable due to higher industry-wide demand or less production by suppliers, there could be an adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. In recent years, mining industry demand growth has exceeded supply growth for certain surface and underground mining equipment and heavy equipment tires. Transportation disruptions could impair our ability to sell coal. We are dependent on our transportation providers to provide access to markets. Disruption of transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to customers. Our ability to ship coal could be negatively impacted by a reduction in available and timely rail service. Lack of sufficient resources to meet a rapid increase in demand, a greater demand for transportation to export terminals and rail line congestion all could contribute to a disruption and slowdown in rail service. Severe weather may affect our ability to mine and deliver coal. Severe weather, including flooding and excessive ice or snowfall, when it occurs, can adversely affect our ability to produce, load and transport coal, which may negatively impact our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Federal and state government regulations applicable to operations increase costs and may make our coal less competitive than other coal producers. We incur substantial costs and liabilities under increasingly strict federal, state and local environmental, health and safety and endangered species laws, regulations and enforcement policies. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from our operations. We may also incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations. See Item 1. Business, under the heading “Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and Regulations” for further discussion of this risk. New legislation and new regulations may be adopted which could materially adversely affect our mining operations, cost structure or our customers’ ability to use coal. New legislation and new regulations may also require us, as well as our customers, to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. The EPA has undertaken broad initiatives aimed at increasing compliance with emissions standards and to provide incentives to our customers for decreasing emissions, often by switching to an alternative fuel source or by installing scrubbers at their coal-fired plants. Concerns about the environmental impacts of coal combustion, including perceived impacts on global climate change, are resulting in increased regulation of coal combustion in many jurisdictions, and interest in further regulation, which could significantly affect demand for our products. The Clean Air Act and similar state and local laws extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants, which are the largest end-users of our coal. Such regulations may require significant emissions control expenditures for many coal-fired power plants to comply with applicable ambient air quality standards. As a result, the generators may switch to other fuels that generate less of these emissions or install more effective pollution control equipment, possibly reducing future demand for coal and the construction of coal-fired power plants. The majority of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. Global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. Widely publicized scientific reports in 2007, such as the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, have also engendered widespread concern about the impacts of human activity, especially fossil fuel combustion, on global climate change. A considerable amount of legislative attention in the United States is being paid to global climate change and to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly from coal combustion by power plants. According to EIA, “Emissions of Greenhouse Gases in the United States 2006,” coal accounts for 30% of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. Legislation was introduced in Congress in 2006 and 2007 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the United States and 25 additional legislation has been proposed and is likely to be introduced in the future. In addition, a growing number of states in the United States are taking steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants. The United States Supreme Court’s recent decision in Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency ruled that the EPA improperly declined to address carbon dioxide impacts on climate change in a recent rulemaking. Although the specific rulemaking related to new motor vehicles, the reasoning of the decision could affect other federal regulatory programs, including those that directly relate to coal use. Enactment of laws and passage of regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions by the United States or some of its states, or other actions to limit carbon dioxide emissions, could result in electric generators switching from coal to other fuel sources. Further developments in connection with legislation, regulations or other limits on greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts from coal combustion, both in the United States and in other countries where we sell coal, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. See Item 1. Business, under the heading “Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and Regulations” for further discussion of this risk. MSHA or other federal or state regulatory agencies may order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ demands. MSHA or other federal or state regulatory agencies may order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed. Our customers may challenge our issuance of force majeure notices in connection with such closures. If these challenges are successful, we may have to purchase coal from third party sources to satisfy those challenges, negotiate settlements with customers, which may include price reductions, the reduction of commitments or the extension of the time for delivery, terminate customers’ contracts or face claims initiated by our customers against us. The resolution of these challenges could have an adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. We must obtain governmental permits and approvals for mining operations, which can be a costly and time-consuming process and can result in restrictions on our operations. Our operations are principally regulated under surface mining permits issued pursuant to the SMCRA and state counterpart laws. Such permits are issued for terms of five years with the right of successive renewal. Additionally, the Clean Water Act requires permits for operations that fill waters of the United States. Valley fills and refuse impoundments are typically authorized under nationwide permits that are revised and renewed periodically by the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Additionally, certain surface mines and preparation plants have permits issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act and state counterpart clean air laws allowing and controlling the discharge of air pollutants. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time-consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of development or production operations. See Item 1. Business, under the heading “Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and Regulations” for further discussion. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract qualified personnel could affect our ability to operate our company effectively. The successful management of our business is dependent on a number of key personnel. Our future success will be affected by our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. There are no assurances that key personnel will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have an adverse affect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Union represented labor creates an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs. At December 31, 2007, 2.0% of our total workforce was represented by the UMWA. During 2007, six of our coal preparation plants and one smaller surface mine had a workforce represented by the UMWA. In 2007, these preparation plants handled approximately 28% of our coal production. There may be an increased risk of strikes and other related work actions, in addition to higher labor costs, associated with these operations. If some or all of our current open shop operations were to become union represented, we could be subject to additional risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs, which could adversely affect the stability of production and reduce net income. We are subject to being adversely affected by a decline in the financial condition and creditworthiness of our customers. In an effort to mitigate credit-related risks in all customer classifications, we maintain a credit policy, which requires scheduled reviews of customer creditworthiness and continuous monitoring of customer news events that might have an impact on their financial condition. Negative credit performance or events may trigger the application of tighter terms of sale, requirements for collateral or, ultimately, a suspension of credit privileges. The creditworthiness of customers can limit who we can do business with and at what price. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 95% of coal sales volume was pursuant to long-term contracts. We anticipate that in 2008, the percentage of our sales pursuant to long-term contracts will be comparable with the percentage of our sales for 2007 and almost 60% of our projected 2008 sales is contracted to be 26 sold to our 10 largest customers. If one or more of our largest customers experiences financial difficulties and fails to make payment for our sales to them, there could be an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. We have contracts to supply coal to energy trading and brokering companies who resell the coal to the ultimate users. We are subject to being adversely affected by any decline in the financial condition and creditworthiness of these energy trading and brokering companies. In addition, as the largest supplier of metallurgical coal to the American steel industry, we are subject to being adversely affected by any decline in the financial condition or production volume of American steel producers. See Item 1. Business, under the heading “Customers and Coal Contracts” for further discussion. We are subject to various legal proceedings, which may have a material effect on our business. We are parties to a number of legal proceedings incident to normal business activities. Some of the allegations brought against us are with merit, while others are not. There is always the potential that an individual matter or the aggregation of many matters could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial position. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 17 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. We have significant reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are materially inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The SMCRA establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of deep mining. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. The estimate of ultimate reclamation liability is reviewed periodically by management and engineers. The estimated liability can change significantly if actual costs vary from assumptions or if governmental regulations change significantly. See Item 1. Business, under the heading “Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and Regulations” for further discussion. Our future expenditures for postretirement benefit and pension obligations could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions are incorrect. We are subject to long-term liabilities under a variety of benefit plans and other arrangements with current and former employees. These obligations have been estimated based on actuarial assumptions, including actuarial estimates, assumed discount rates, estimates of life expectancy, expected returns on pension plan assets and changes in healthcare costs. If our assumptions relating to these benefits change in the future or are incorrect, we may be required to record additional expenses, which would reduce our profitability. In addition, future regulatory and accounting changes relating to these benefits could result in increased obligations or additional costs, which could also have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. For a further discussion, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading “Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions” and Notes 5 and 10 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits from acquisitions we undertake, as acquisitions entail a number of inherent risks. From time to time we expand our business and reserve position through acquisitions of businesses and assets, mergers, joint ventures or other transactions. Such transactions involve various inherent risks, such as: § uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental liabilities) of, acquisition or other transaction candidates; § the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; § the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; § problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business; and § unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition or other transaction rationale. Any one or more of these and other factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of businesses or assets or could result in unexpected liabilities associated with these acquisitions. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal abroad. We rely on customers in other countries for a portion of our sales, with shipments to countries in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Africa. We compete in these international markets against coal produced in other countries. Coal 27 is sold internationally in United States dollars. As a result, mining costs in competing producing countries may be reduced in United States dollar terms based on currency exchange rates, providing an advantage to foreign coal producers. Currency fluctuations among countries purchasing and selling coal could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal in international markets. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Future terrorist attacks against United States targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting customers may materially adversely affect operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to customers, decreased sales of coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, such disruption may lead to significant increases in energy prices that could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any, or a combination, of these occurrences could have a material impact on cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks, some of which we insure against and some of which we self-insure. Our operations are subject to certain events and conditions that could disrupt operations, including fires and explosions, accidental minewater discharges, natural disasters, equipment failures, maintenance problems and flooding. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of these risks. Even where insurance coverage applies, there can be no assurance that these risks would be fully covered by insurance policies. We self-insure our highwall miners and underground equipment, including our longwalls. We do not currently carry business interruption insurance. Diversity in interpretation and application of accounting literature in the mining industry may impact our reported financial results. The mining industry has limited industry specific accounting literature and, as a result, we understand diversity in practice exists in the interpretation and application of accounting literature to mining specific issues. As diversity in mining industry accounting is addressed, we may need to restate our reported results if the resulting interpretations differ from our current accounting practices (for additional information regarding our accounting policies, please see Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions and Note 1 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 28 Item 