Item 1A. Risk Factors Massey is subject to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to, those risk factors set forth below and those referenced herein to other Items contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Item 1, Business, under the headings “Customers and Coal Contracts,” “Competition,” “Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and Regulations,” Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”), under the headings “Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions,” “Certain Trends and Uncertainties” and elsewhere in MD&A. Massey is impacted by the competitiveness of the markets in which it competes and market demand for coal. Massey competes with coal producers in various regions of the U.S. and overseas for domestic and international sales. Continued domestic demand for Massey’s coal and the prices that it will be able to obtain primarily will depend upon coal consumption patterns of the domestic electric utility industry and the domestic steel industry. Consumption by the domestic utility industry is affected by the demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, technological developments and the price of competing coal and alternative fuel supplies including nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable energy sources, including hydroelectric power. Consumption by the domestic steel industry is primarily affected by economic growth and the demand for steel used in construction as well as appliances and automobiles. In recent years, the competitive environment for coal has been impacted by sustained growth in a number of the largest markets in the world, including the U.S., China, Japan and India, where demand for both electricity and steel have supported high pricing for steam and metallurgical coal. The cost of ocean transportation and the valuation of the U.S. dollar in relation to foreign currencies significantly impact the relative attractiveness of Massey’s coal as it competes on price with other foreign coal producing sources. See Item 1, Business, under the heading “Competition,” for further discussion. Demand for Massey’s coal depends on its price and quality and the cost of transporting its coal to its customers. Coal prices are influenced by a number of factors and may vary dramatically by region. The two principal components of the price of coal are the price of coal at the mine, which is influenced by mine operating costs and coal quality, and the cost of transporting coal from the mine to the point of use. The cost of mining the coal is influenced by geologic characteristics such as seam thickness, overburden ratios and depth of underground reserves. Underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher costs for labor (including reserves for future costs associated with labor benefits and health care) and capital costs (including costs for mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems). The Company presently operates 31 active underground mines, including 4 longwall mines, and 16 active surface mines, with 7 highwall miners. See Item 1, Business, under the headings “Mining Methods,” “Mining Operations” and “Competition” for further discussion. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy. Such increases could have a material impact on Massey’s ability to compete with other energy sources and on its cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. On the other hand, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition from coal producers in other parts of the country. See Item 1, Business, under the heading “Competition,” for further discussion. A significant decline in coal prices in general could adversely affect Massey’s operating results and cash flows. Massey’s results are highly dependent upon the prices the Company receives for its coal. Decreased demand for coal, both domestically and internationally, could cause spot prices and the prices the Company is able to negotiate on long-term contracts to decline. The lower prices could negatively affect the Company’s cash flows, results of operations or financial condition, if the Company is unable to increase productivity and/or decrease costs in order to maintain the Company’s margins. Massey depends on continued demand from its customers. Reduced demand from or the loss of Massey’s largest customers could have an adverse impact on Massey’s ability to achieve its projected revenue. Decreases in demand may result from, among other things, a reduction in consumption by the electric generation industry and/or the steel industry, the availability of other sources of fuel at cheaper costs and a general slow-down in the economy. When Massey’s contracts with its customers reach expiration, there can be no assurance that the customers either will extend or enter into new long-term contracts or, in the absence of long-term contracts, that they will continue to purchase the same amount of coal as they have in the past or on terms, including pricing terms, as favorable as under existing arrangements. In the event that a large customer account is lost or a long-term contract is not renewed, profits could suffer if alternative buyers are not willing to purchase the Company’s coal on comparable terms. See Item 1, Business, under the heading “Customers and Coal Contracts” for further discussion. 19 Table of Contents The level of Massey’s indebtedness could adversely affect its ability to grow and compete and prevent it from fulfilling its obligations under its contracts and agreements. At December 31, 2005, Massey had $1,113.3 million of total indebtedness outstanding, which represented 57.0% of its total book capitalization. The Company has significant debt, lease and royalty obligations. The Company’s ability to satisfy debt service, lease and royalty obligations and to effect any refinancing of its indebtedness will depend upon future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions in the markets that the Company serves as well as financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. The Company may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings, or other financings may be unavailable in an amount sufficient to enable it to fund its debt service, lease and royalty payment obligations or its other liquidity needs. The Company’s relative amount of debt could have material consequences to its business, including, but not limited to: (i) making it more difficult to satisfy debt covenants and debt service, lease payments and other obligations; (ii) making it more difficult to pay quarterly dividends as the Company has in the past; (iii) increasing the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; (iv) limiting the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements; (v) reducing the availability of cash flows from operations to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; (vi) limiting the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the Company’s business and the industry in which the Company competes; or (vii) placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage with competitors with relatively lower amounts of debt. The covenants in Massey’s credit facility and the indentures governing its debt instruments impose restrictions that may limit Massey’s operating and financial flexibility. Massey’s asset based loan credit facility and the indentures governing its notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that may limit the Company’s ability and its subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: (i) incur liens and debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of any other person; (ii) increase Common Stock dividends above specified levels; (iii) make loans and investments; (iv) prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; (v) engage in mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions; (vi) engage in affiliate transactions; (vii) create any lien or security interest in any real property or equipment; (viii) engage in sale and leaseback transactions; and (ix) restrict distributions from subsidiaries. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in Massey being unable to comply with certain debt covenants. If Massey violates these covenants and is unable to obtain waivers from its lenders, Massey’s debt under these agreements would be in default and could be accelerated by the lenders. If the indebtedness is accelerated, Massey may not be able to repay its debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if Massey is able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to Massey. If Massey’s debt is in default for any reason, its cash flows, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause Massey to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for Massey to successfully execute its business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. Massey depends on its ability to continue acquiring and developing economically recoverable coal reserves. A key component to the future success of Massey is its ability to continue acquiring coal reserves for development that have the geological characteristics that allow them to be economically mined. Replacement reserves may not be available or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristics of the depleting mines. An inability to continue acquiring economically recoverable coal reserves could have a material impact on the Company’s cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Massey faces numerous uncertainties in estimating its economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in its estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of economically recoverable coal reserves, including many factors beyond Massey’s control. As a result, estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves are by their nature uncertain. Information about the Company’s reserves consists of estimates based on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by the Company. Some of the factors and assumptions that impact economically recoverable reserve estimates include: (i) geological conditions; (ii) historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; (iii) the effects of regulations and taxes by governmental agencies; (iv) future prices; and (v) future operating costs. 20 Table of Contents Each of these factors may in fact vary considerably from the assumptions used in estimating reserves. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of coal attributable to a particular group of properties may vary substantially. As a result, the Company’s estimates may not accurately reflect its actual reserves. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to its reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variances may be material. If the coal industry experiences overcapacity in the future, the Company’s profitability could be impaired. The current strong coal market and increased demand for coal have been attracting new investors to the coal industry, spurring the development of new mines, and resulting in added production capacity throughout the industry. The Company and several of its major competitors have announced plans for substantial increases in productive capacity over the next several years. A continuation of, or a further increase in, the current price levels of coal could further encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. Any resulting increases in capacity could reduce coal prices and therefore reduce the Company’s margins. See Item 1, Business, under the heading “Competition,” for further discussion. Transportation disruptions could impair Massey’s ability to sell coal. Massey is dependent on its transportation providers to provide access to markets. Disruption of transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts or other events could temporarily impair Massey’s ability to supply coal to customers. Throughout 2005, the Company’s ability to ship coal was negatively impacted by a reduction in available and timely rail service. Lack of sufficient resources to meet the rapid increase in demand, a greater demand for transportation to export terminals and rail line congestion all seem to have contributed to the disruption and slowdowns in rail service. Although the railroads have taken action to remedy these issues, including the purchase of new locomotives and railcars, and the hiring and training of additional crews, such actions may not be sufficient to cure the disruption and slowdowns in rail service. Certain of Massey’s subsidiaries and other coal and transportation companies have been named as defendants in lawsuits in West Virginia. The suits allege that the defendants illegally transported coal in overloaded trucks causing damage to state roads and interfering with the plaintiffs’ use and enjoyment of their properties and their right to use the public roads, and seek injunctive relief and damages. See Note 19 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this litigation. Severe weather may affect Massey’s ability to mine and deliver coal. Severe weather, including flooding and excessive ice or snowfall, when it occurs, can adversely affect Massey’s ability to produce, load and transport coal, which may negatively impact the Company’s cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. See Note 19 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this risk. Federal and state government regulations applicable to Massey operations increase Massey’s costs and may make Massey’s coal less competitive than other coal producers. Massey incurs substantial costs and liabilities under increasingly strict federal, state and local environmental, health and safety and endangered species laws, including regulations and governmental enforcement policies. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from the Company’s operations. The Company may also incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from its operations. See Item 1, Business, under the heading “Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and Regulations” for further discussion. New legislation and new regulations may be adopted which could materially adversely affect Massey’s mining operations, cost structure or its customers’ ability to use coal. New legislation and new regulations may also require Massey or its customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. The EPA has undertaken broad initiatives aimed at increasing compliance with emissions standards and to provide incentives to customers for decreasing emissions, often by switching to an alternative fuel source. 21 Table of Contents Massey must obtain governmental permits and approvals for mining operations, which can be a costly and time-consuming process and result in restrictions on its operations. Massey’s operations are principally regulated under surface mining permits issued pursuant to the SMCRA and state counterpart laws. Such permits are issued for terms of five years with the right of successive renewal. Additionally, the Clean Water Act requires permits for operations that fill waters of the United States. Valley fills and refuse impoundments are typically authorized under nationwide permits that are revised and renewed periodically by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Additionally, certain surface mines and preparation plants have permits issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act and state counterpart clean air laws allowing and controlling the discharge of air pollutants. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time-consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. See Item 1, Business, under the heading “Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and Regulations” for further discussion. Union represented labor creates an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs. At December 31, 2005, 3.0% of Massey’s total workforce was represented by the UMWA. Six of Massey’s coal preparation plants and one of its smaller surface mines have a workforce that is represented by a union. In fiscal 2005, these six preparation plants handled approximately 18% of Massey’s coal production. There may be an increased risk of strikes and other related work actions, in addition to higher labor costs, associated with these operations. Massey has experienced some union organizing campaigns at some of its open shop facilities within the past five years. If some or all of Massey’s current open shop operations were to become union represented, Massey could be subject to additional risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs, which could adversely affect the stability of production and reduce the Company’s net income. Massey is subject to being adversely affected by a decline in the financial condition and creditworthiness of its customers. In an effort to mitigate credit-related risks in all customer classifications, Massey maintains a credit policy, which requires scheduled reviews of customer creditworthiness and continuous monitoring of customer news events that might have an impact on their financial condition. Negative credit performance or events may trigger the application of tighter terms of sale, requirements for collateral or, ultimately, a suspension of credit privileges. The creditworthiness of customers can limit who the Company can do business with and at what price. For example, Massey has contracts to supply coal to energy trading and brokering companies who resell the coal to the ultimate users. Massey is subject to being adversely affected by any decline in the financial condition and creditworthiness of these energy trading and brokering companies. In addition, as the largest supplier of metallurgical coal to the American steel industry, Massey is subject to being adversely affected by any decline in the financial condition or production volume of American steel producers. See Item 1, Business, under the heading “Customers and Coal Contracts” for further discussion. Massey is subject to various legal proceedings, which may have a material effect on its business. Massey and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of legal proceedings incident to the Company’s normal business activities. Some of the allegations brought against the Company are with merit, while others are not. There is always the potential that an individual matter or the aggregation of many matters could have an adverse effect on the Company’s cash flows results of operations or financial position. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Note 19 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Massey has significant reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying the Company’s accruals are materially inaccurate, the Company could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The SMCRA establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of deep mining. Estimates of the Company’s total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and the Company’s engineering expertise related to these requirements. The estimate of ultimate reclamation liability is reviewed periodically by the Company’s management and engineers. The estimated liability can change significantly if actual costs vary from assumptions or if governmental regulations change significantly. See Item 1, Business, under the heading “Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and Regulations” for further discussion. 22 Table of Contents Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of Massey’s coal abroad. Massey relies on customers in other countries for a portion of its sales, with shipments to countries in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Africa. Massey competes in these international markets against coal produced in other countries. Coal is sold internationally in U.S. dollars. As a result, mining costs in competing producing countries may be reduced in U.S. dollar terms based on currency exchange rates, providing an advantage to foreign coal producers. Currency fluctuations among countries purchasing and selling coal could adversely affect the competitiveness of Massey’s coal in international markets. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect the Company’s cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. The Company’s business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of its control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the U.S. or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting the Company’s customers may materially adversely affect its operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to the Company’s customers, decreased sales of its coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from its customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the U.S. In addition, such disruption may lead to significant increases in energy prices that could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any, or a combination, of these occurrences could have a material impact on the Company’s cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks. Massey’s operations are subject to certain events and conditions that could disrupt operations, including fires and explosions, accidental minewater discharges, natural disasters, equipment failures, maintenance problems and flooding. Massey maintains insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of these risks. Even where insurance coverage applies, there can be no assurance that these risks would be fully covered by Massey’s insurance policies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 