ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Among the factors that could have an impact on our ability to achieve operating results and meet our other goals are: Worldwide Recession and Disruption of Financial Markets: • The worldwide financial and credit market disruptions that were first manifested in 2008, reduced the availability of liquidity and credit generally necessary to fund a continuation and expansion of global economic activity. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with substantial losses in equity markets led to a worldwide economic recession. While we have seen signs of recovery, the general slowdown in economic activity caused by an extended recession could adversely affect our business. A continuation or worsening of the current difficult economic conditions could adversely affect our customers’ ability to meet the terms of sale or our suppliers’ ability to fully perform their commitments to us. 16 Table of Contents Industry Risks: Pricing and volumes in our markets are sensitive to a number of industry specific and global issues and events including: • Capacity utilization—Our businesses are sensitive to industry capacity utilization, particularly in our Industrial Chemicals business. As a result, pricing tends to fluctuate when capacity utilization changes occur within our industry. • Competition—All of our segments face competition, which could affect our ability to maintain/raise prices, successfully enter certain markets or retain our market position. Additionally, in Agricultural Products, competition from genetically modified products (GMO) as well as generic producers has increased. Generics are driven by the number of significant product patents that have expired in the last decade. • Changes in our customer base—Our customer base has the potential to change, especially when long term supply contracts are renegotiated. Our Industrial Chemicals and Specialty Chemicals businesses are most sensitive to this risk. • Climatic conditions—Our Agricultural Products markets are affected by climatic conditions, which could adversely impact crop pricing and pest infestations. The nature of these events makes them difficult to predict. • Changing regulatory environment—Changes in the regulatory environment, particularly in the United States, Brazil and the European Union, could adversely impact our ability to continue selling certain products in our domestic and foreign markets. Our Agricultural Products business is most sensitive to this general regulatory risk. In the European Union, the regulatory risk specifically includes the new chemicals regulation known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals), which will affect each of our business segments to varying degrees. The fundamental principle behind this regulation is that manufacturers must verify that their chemicals can be marketed safely through a special registration system. • Climate change regulation—Changes in the regulation of greenhouse gases, depending on their nature and scope, could subject our manufacturing operations, particularly certain Industrial Chemicals operations in the United States, to significant additional costs or limits on operations. • Raw materials and energy costs—Our operating results are significantly affected by the cost of raw materials and energy, including natural gas. We may not be able to fully offset the impact of higher raw materials and energy costs through price increases or productivity improvements. • Supply arrangements and production hazards—Certain raw materials are critical to our production process, especially in our Agricultural Products and Specialty Chemicals segments. While we have made supply arrangements to meet planned operating requirements, an inability to obtain the critical raw materials or execute under the contract manufacturing arrangements would adversely impact our ability to produce certain products. We increasingly source critical intermediates and finished products from a number of suppliers, especially in Agricultural Products. An inability to obtain these products or execute under the contract sourcing arrangements would adversely impact our ability to sell products. Our facilities and those of our key contract manufacturers are subject to operating hazards, which may disrupt our business. • Economic and political change—Our business could be adversely affected by economic and political changes in the markets where we compete including: war, terrorism, civil unrest, inflation rates, recessions, trade restrictions, foreign ownership restrictions and economic embargoes imposed by the United States or any of the foreign countries in which we do business; change in governmental laws and regulations and the level of enforcement of these laws and regulations; other governmental actions; and other external factors over which we have no control. • Market access risk—Our results may be affected by changes in distribution channels, which could impact our ability to access the market. In certain Agricultural Products segments, we access the market through joint ventures in which we do not have majority control. Where we do not have a strong product portfolio or market access relationships, we may be vulnerable to changes in the distribution model or influence of competitors with stronger product portfolios. • Litigation and environmental risks—Current reserves relating to our ongoing litigation and environmental liabilities may ultimately prove to be inadequate. 17 Table of Contents • Hazardous materials—We manufacture and transport certain materials that are inherently hazardous due to their toxic or volatile nature. While we take precautions to handle and transport these materials in a safe manner, if they are mishandled or released into the environment they could cause property damage or personal injury claims against us. Technology Risks: • Failure to make continued improvements in our product technology and new product introductions could impede our competitive position, particularly in Agricultural Products and Specialty Chemicals. • Failure to continue to make process improvements to reduce costs could impede our competitive position. Financial Risks: • We are an international company and therefore face foreign exchange rate risks. We are particularly sensitive to the euro, the Chinese yuan, and the Brazilian real. To a lesser extent, we are sensitive to other Asian currencies, particularly the Japanese yen. • In Brazil, our customers face a combination of economic factors that could result in cash flow pressures that lead to slower payments. • We have deferred income tax assets. The carrying value of these assets is dependent upon, among other things, our future performance and our ability to successfully implement our future business plans. • We have significant investments in long-lived assets and continually review the carrying value of these assets for recoverability in light of changing market conditions and alternative product sourcing opportunities. • Our results incorporate the financial performance of our equity affiliates. As such, our influence, though significant, is exercised in concert with our partners; accordingly, the performance of these investments is not under our control. • Obligations related to our pension and postretirement plans reflect certain assumptions. To the extent our plans’ actual experience differs from these assumptions, our costs and funding obligations could increase or decrease significantly. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 