ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As a financial services organization, the Corporation takes on a certain amount of risk in every business decision and activity. For example, every time FNBPA opens an account or approves a loan for a customer, processes a payment, hires a new employee, or implements a new computer system, FNBPA and the Corporation incur a certain amount of risk. As an organization, the Corporation must balance revenue generation and 13 Table of Contents profitability with the risks associated with its business activities. Risk management is not about eliminating risks, but about identifying and accepting risks and then effectively managing them so as to optimize total shareholder value. The Corporation has identified five major categories of risk: credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and compliance risk. Credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk, and the program implemented by management to address these risks, are more fully discussed in the Market Risk section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7 of this Report. Operational risk arises from inadequate information systems and technology, weak internal control systems or other failed internal processes or systems, human error, fraud or external events. Compliance risk relates to each of the other four major categories of risk listed above, but specifically addresses internal control failures that result in non-compliance with laws, rules, regulations or ethical standards. The key to effective risk management is to be proactive in identifying, measuring, evaluating and monitoring risk on an ongoing basis. Risk management practices support decision-making, improve the success rate for new initiatives, and strengthen the market’s confidence in the Corporation and its affiliates. The Corporation’s risk management process is supported through a governance structure involving its Board of Directors and senior management. The Corporation’s Risk Committee helps insure that business decisions within the organization are executed within the Corporation’s desired risk profile. The Risk Committee has the following key roles: • facilitate the identification, assessment and monitoring of risk across the Corporation; • provide support and oversight to the Corporation’s businesses; and • identify and implement risk management best practices, as appropriate. Additionally, FNBPA has a Risk Management Committee comprised of senior management to provide oversight to specific areas of risk with respect to the level of risk and risk management structure. The Risk Management Committee reports on a regular basis to the Corporation’s Risk Committee regarding the enterprise risk profile of the Corporation and other relevant risk management issues. The Corporation’s audit function performs an independent assessment of the internal control environment. Moreover, the Corporation’s audit function plays a critical role in risk management, testing the operation of internal control systems and reporting findings to management and to the Corporation’s Audit Committee. Both the Corporation’s Risk Committee and FNBPA’s Risk Management Committee regularly assess the Corporation’s enterprise-wide risk profile and provide guidance on action to address key risk issues. The following are the most significant risk factors that affect the Corporation. These risk factors are also discussed further in other parts of this Report. The Corporation’s status as a holding company makes it dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations. The Corporation is a holding company and conducts almost all of its operations through its subsidiaries. The Corporation does not have any significant assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Corporation depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations and obtain revenue. The Corporation’s right to participate in any distribution of earnings or assets of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of creditors of such subsidiaries. Under federal law, FNBPA is limited in the amount of dividends it may pay to the Corporation without prior regulatory approval. Also, bank regulators have the authority to prohibit FNBPA from paying dividends if the bank regulators determine the payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Interest rate volatility could significantly harm the Corporation’s business. The Corporation’s results of operations are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the regulatory policies of governmental authorities. A significant component of the Corporation’s earnings is its net interest income, which is the difference between the income from interest earning assets, such as loans, and the expense of interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits. A change in market interest rates could 14 Table of Contents adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings if market interest rates change such that the interest the Corporation pays on deposits and borrowings increases faster or decreases more slowly than the interest it collects on loans and investments. Consequently, the business of the Corporation, along with that of other financial institutions, generally is sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. The Corporation’s results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans. Lending money is an essential part of the banking business, and borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is affected by: • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; • the duration of the loan; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral. Generally, commercial/industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans present a greater risk of non-payment by a borrower than other types of loans. For additional information, see the Lending Activity section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7 of this Report. In addition, consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields compared to real estate mortgage loans, but generally carry higher risks of default. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. The Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if its allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses. The Corporation can give no assurance that its allowance for loan losses is or will be sufficient to absorb actual loan losses. Excess loan losses could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation attempts to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for estimated losses inherent in its loan portfolio. The Corporation periodically determines the amount of its allowance for loan losses based upon consideration of several factors, including: • a regular review of the quality, mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; • historical loan loss experience; • evaluation of non-performing loans; • assessment of economic conditions and their effects on the Corporation’s existing portfolio; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing loans. For additional discussion relating to this matter, refer to the Allowance and Provision for Loan Losses section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7 of this Report. The Corporation’s financial condition may be adversely affected if it is unable to attract sufficient deposits to fund its anticipated loan growth. The Corporation funds its loan growth primarily through deposits. To the extent that the Corporation is unable to attract and maintain sufficient levels of deposits to fund its loan growth, the Corporation would be required to raise additional funds through public or private financings. The Corporation can give no assurance that it would be able to obtain these funds on acceptable terms. The Corporation’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Corporation’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the 15 Table of Contents objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Corporation could experience significant difficulties and complications in connection with its growth and acquisition strategy. The Corporation has grown significantly through acquisitions over the last few years and may seek to continue to grow by acquiring financial institutions and branches as well as non-depository entities engaged in permissible activities for its financial institution subsidiaries. However, the market for acquisitions is highly competitive. The Corporation may not be as successful in the future as it has been in the past in identifying financial institution and branch acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions or preventing deposit erosion at acquired institutions or branches. As part of its acquisition strategy, the Corporation may acquire additional banks and non-bank entities that it believes provide a strategic fit with its business. To the extent that the Corporation is successful with this strategy, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to manage this growth adequately and profitably. For example, acquiring any bank or non-bank entity will involve risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and non-bank entities the Corporation acquires; • exposure to potential asset quality issues of acquired banks and non-bank entities; • potential disruption to the Corporation’s business; • potential diversion of the time and attention of the Corporation’s management; and • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and other businesses the Corporation acquires. In addition to acquisitions, FNBPA may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen its position in its current markets by undertaking additional de novo branch openings or establishing additional loan production offices. Based on its experience, the Corporation believes that it generally takes up to three years for new banking facilities to achieve operational profitability due to the impact of organizational and overhead expenses and the start-up phase of generating loans and deposits. To the extent that FNBPA undertakes additional de novo branch openings, FNBPA is likely to continue to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new banking facilities, which may have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s net income, earnings per share, return on average equity and return on average assets. The Corporation may encounter unforeseen expenses, as well as difficulties and complications in integrating expanded operations and new employees without disruption to its overall operations. Following each acquisition, the Corporation must expend substantial resources to integrate the entities. The integration of non-banking entities often involves combining different industry cultures and business methodologies. The failure to integrate successfully the entities the Corporation acquires into its existing operations may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The Corporation could be adversely affected by changes in the law, especially changes in the regulation of the banking industry. The Corporation and its subsidiaries operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by several governmental agencies, including the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC. Regulations are generally intended to provide protection for depositors, borrowers and other customers rather than for investors. The Corporation is subject to changes in federal and state law, regulations, governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. Changes in regulation could adversely affect the banking and financial services industry as a whole and could limit the Corporation’s growth and the return to investors by restricting such activities as: • the payment of dividends; 16 Table of Contents • mergers with or acquisitions of other institutions; • investments; • loans and interest rates; • the provision of securities, insurance or trust services; and • the types of non-deposit activities in which the Corporation’s financial institution subsidiaries may engage. In addition, legislation may change present capital requirements, which could restrict the Corporation’s activities and require the Corporation to raise additional capital. The Corporation’s results of operations could be adversely affected due to significant competition. The Corporation faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources than the Corporation. The Corporation may not be able to compete effectively in its markets, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations. The banking and financial services industry in each of the Corporation’s market areas is highly competitive. The competitive environment is a result of: • changes in regulation; • changes in technology and product delivery systems; and • the accelerated pace of consolidation among financial services providers. The Corporation competes for loans, deposits and customers with various bank and non-bank financial service providers, many of which are larger in terms of total assets and capitalization, have greater access to the capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services than the Corporation. Competition with such institutions may cause the Corporation to increase its deposit rates or decrease its interest rate spread on loans it originates. Loan pricing and credit standards are under competitive pressure as various lenders seek to deploy capital and a broader range of borrowers have access to the capital markets. Likewise, traditional deposit activities are subject to intense pricing pressures and increasing customer migration as the financial service providers compete for consumers’ investment dollars. The Corporation’s continued pace of growth may require it to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. The Corporation is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations (see the Government Supervision and Regulation section included in Item 1 of this Report). As a financial holding company, the Corporation seeks to maintain capital sufficient to meet the “well-capitalized” standard set by regulators. The Corporation anticipates that its current capital resources will satisfy its capital requirements for the foreseeable future. The Corporation may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support continued growth, whether such growth occurs internally or through acquisitions. The Corporation’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Corporation’s control, and on its financial performance. Accordingly, there can be no assurance of the Corporation’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on acceptable terms. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to expand its operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Adverse economic conditions in the Corporation’s market area may adversely impact its results of operations and financial condition. The majority of the Corporation’s business is concentrated in Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio, which are traditionally slower growth markets than other areas of the United States. Also, the Corporation originates commercial loans in Florida, which risk factors are discussed in the following paragraph. As a result, FNBPA’s loan portfolio and results of operations may be adversely affected by factors that have a significant impact on the economic conditions in these market areas. The local economies of the Pennsylvania and Ohio market areas historically have been less robust than the economy of the nation as a whole and may not be subject to the same 17 Table of Contents fluctuations as the national economy. Adverse economic conditions in the Corporation’s market areas, including the loss of certain significant employers, could reduce its growth rate, affect its borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and generally affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, a downturn in real estate values in FNBPA’s market areas could cause many of its loans to become inadequately collateralized. The Corporation may be adversely affected by the recent downturn in Florida real estate markets. According to published reports, many Florida real estate markets, including the markets in Orlando, Naples, Fort Myers, Sarasota and Tampa, where the Corporation has loan production offices, have declined in value throughout 2007 and may continue to undergo a period of slowdown. The Corporation operates five commercial loan production offices in the Florida market place and is therefore exposed to the weakening real estate conditions in the Florida geographic region. During a period of prolonged general economic downturn in the Florida market, the Corporation in that market may experience a reduction in loan origination activity and increases in non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. The Corporation’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Corporation relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Corporation’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of these information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Corporation’s information systems could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Certain provisions of the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and Florida law may discourage takeovers. The Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage or may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Corporation’s Board of Directors. In particular, the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws: • classify its Board of Directors into three classes, so that stockholders elect only one-third of its Board of Directors each year; • permit stockholders to remove directors only for cause; • do not permit stockholders to take action except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders; • require stockholders to give the Corporation advance notice to nominate candidates for election to its Board of Directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting; • permit the Corporation’s Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval unless otherwise required by law, preferred stock with such terms as its Board of Directors may determine; • require the vote of the holders of at least 75% of the Corporation’s voting shares for stockholder amendments to its By-laws; • allow the Board of Directors to increase the number of directors and to fill any open seats created through such an increase; • require a vote of the holders of at least 75% of the Corporation’s voting shares to approve a merger not supported by the Board of Directors; and • require a vote of the holders of at least 75% of the Corporation’s voting shares to remove any director without cause. Under Florida law, the approval of a business combination with a stockholder owning 10% or more of the voting shares of a corporation requires the vote of holders of at least two-thirds of the voting shares not owned by such stockholder, unless the transaction is approved by a majority of the corporation’s disinterested directors. In 18 Table of Contents addition, Florida law generally provides that shares of a corporation that are acquired in excess of certain specified thresholds will not possess any voting rights unless the voting rights are approved by a majority of the corporation’s disinterested stockholders. These provisions of the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and of Florida law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, even though a majority of the Corporation’s stockholders may consider such proposals desirable. Such provision could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace members of the Corporation’s Board of Directors. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for stockholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market price of the Corporation’s common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock that could result from takeover attempts. The Corporation’s business and financial performance could be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by natural disasters, terrorist activities or international hostilities. The likelihood or impact of natural disasters, terrorist activities and international hostilities cannot be predicted. However, any of these could impact the Corporation directly (for example, by causing significant damage to its facilities or preventing it from conducting its business in the ordinary course), or could impact the Corporation indirectly through a direct impact on its borrowers, depositors, other customers, suppliers or other counterparties. The Corporation also could suffer adverse consequences to the extent that natural disasters, terrorist activities or international hostilities affect the economy and financial and capital markets generally. These types of impacts could lead, for example, to an increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that could result in the Corporation experiencing higher levels of non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. The Corporation’s ability to mitigate the adverse consequences of such occurrences is, in part, dependent on the quality of its contingency planning, including its ability to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The adverse impact of natural disasters or terrorist activities also could be increased to the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or regional emergency responders or on the part of other organizations and businesses with which the Corporation deals, particularly those on which it depends. Loss of members of the Corporation’s executive team could have a negative impact on business. The Corporation’s success is dependent, in part, on the continued service of its executive officers. The loss of the service of one or more of these executive officers could have a negative impact on the Corporation’s business because of their skills, relationships in the banking community and years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement executive officers. The Corporation may not be able to continue to attract and retain skilled people. The Corporation’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to continue to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Corporation can be intense and the Corporation may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Corporation’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Corporation’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Corporation is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. Portions of the Corporation’s loan portfolio are secured by real property. In the course of its business, the Corporation may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Corporation may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, the Corporation may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination 19 Table of Contents emanating from the property. If the Corporation ever becomes subject to significant environmental liabilities, the Corporation’s business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Recent developments in the mortgage market have increased the volatility of the Corporation’s stock price and may affect the Corporation’s ability to originate loans as well as the profitability of loans in the Corporation’s pipeline. The mortgage lending industry has experienced a significant increase in delinquencies in recent months. The decline in credit quality is most noteworthy among subprime lenders. Generally, the Corporation has not originated residential mortgage loans with FICO credit scores below 620, except for a minimal number of CRA loans. Recent reports of credit quality, financial solvency and other problems among subprime lenders have increased volatility in the stock market. If the subprime segment continues to have problems in the future and/or credit quality problems spread to other industry segments, including lenders who make reduced documentation loans to prime credit quality borrowers, there could be a prolonged decrease in the demand for the Corporation’s loans in the secondary market, adversely affecting the Corporation’s earnings and negatively impacting the price of the Corporation’s common stock. Changes in economic conditions and the composition of the Corporation’s loan portfolio could lead to higher loan charge-offs or an increase in the Corporation’s provision for loan losses and may reduce the Corporation’s net income. Recent changes in national and regional economic conditions could impact the loan portfolios of the Corporation. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities the Corporation serves. Weakness in the market areas served by the Corporation could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because customers may not want or need the Corporation’s products or services; borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; the value of the collateral securing the Corporation’s loans to borrowers may decline; and the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter three scenarios could require the Corporation to charge-off a higher percentage of its loans and/or increase its provision for loan losses, which would reduce its net income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE. 