ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As a financial services organization, the Corporation takes on a certain amount of risk in every business decision and activity. For example, every time FNBPA opens an account or approves a loan for a customer, processes a payment, hires a new employee, or implements a new computer system, FNBPA and the Corporation 21 Table of Contents incur a certain amount of risk. As an organization, the Corporation must balance revenue generation and profitability with the risks associated with its business activities. The objective of risk management is not to eliminate risk, but to identify and accept risk and then manage risk effectively so as to optimize total shareholder value. The Corporation has identified five major categories of risk: credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and compliance risk. The Corporation more fully describes credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk, and the programs the Corporation’s management has implemented to address these risks, in the Market Risk section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7 of this Report. Operational risk arises from inadequate information systems and technology, weak internal control systems or other failed internal processes or systems, human error, fraud or external events. Compliance risk relates to each of the other four major categories of risk listed above, but specifically addresses internal control failures that result in non-compliance with laws, rules, regulations or ethical standards. The following discussion highlights specific risks that could affect the Corporation and its businesses. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Report. Based on the information currently known, the Corporation believes that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting the Corporation. However, the risks and uncertainties the Corporation faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the Corporation currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect its business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse affect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of the Corporation’s securities. The Corporation’s results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans. Lending money is an essential part of the banking business. However, for various reasons, borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is affected by: • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; • the duration of the loan; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral. Generally, commercial/industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans present a greater risk of non-payment by a borrower than other types of loans. For additional information, see the Lending Activity section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7 of this Report. In addition, consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields compared to real estate mortgage loans, but generally carry higher risks of default. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. The Corporation’s financial condition may be adversely affected if it is unable to attract sufficient deposits to fund its anticipated loan growth. The Corporation funds its loan growth primarily through deposits. Deposits are a low cost and stable source of funding for the Corporation. However, the Corporation competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. To the extent that the Corporation is unable to attract and maintain sufficient 22 Table of Contents levels of deposits to fund its loan growth, it would be required to raise additional funds through public or private financings. The Corporation can give no assurance that it would be able to obtain these funds on terms that are attractive to it. The Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if its allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses. The Corporation can give no assurance that its allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb actual loan losses. Excess loan losses could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation attempts to maintain an adequate allowance for loan losses to provide for estimated losses inherent in its loan portfolio as of the reporting date. The Corporation periodically determines the amount of its allowance for loan losses based upon consideration of several quantitative and qualitative factors including, but not limited to, the following: • a regular review of the quality, mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; • historical loan loss experience; • evaluation of non-performing loans; • geographic or industry concentration; • assessment of economic conditions and their effects on the Corporation’s existing portfolio; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing loans. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects the judgment and estimates of management regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows, current fair value of the underlying collateral and other qualitative risk factors that may affect the loan. Determination of the allowance is inherently subjective and is based on factors that are susceptible to significant change. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Corporation’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Corporation’s allowance and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Corporation will need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in the allowance will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion relating to this matter, refer to the Allowance and Provision for Loan Losses section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7 of this Report. The Corporation’s results of operations may be adversely affected if asset valuations cause other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) or goodwill impairment charges. The Corporation may be required to record future impairment charges on its investment securities if they suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on the Corporation’s investment portfolio in future periods. Goodwill is assessed annually for impairment and declines in value could result in a future non-cash charge to earnings. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of FNBPA to pay dividends to the Corporation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s liquidity and its ability to pay dividends to stockholders and could also negatively impact its regulatory capital ratios and result in FNBPA not being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Interest rate volatility could significantly harm the Corporation’s business. The Corporation’s results of operations are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. A significant component of the Corporation’s earnings consists of its net interest income, which is 23 Table of Contents the difference between the income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the expense of interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. A change in market interest rates could adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings if market interest rates change such that the interest the Corporation pays on deposits and borrowings increase at a faster rate or decrease at a slower rate than the interest it collects on loans and investments. Consequently, the Corporation, along with other financial institutions, generally will be sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Changes in economic conditions and the composition of the Corporation’s loan portfolio could lead to higher loan charge-offs or an increase in the Corporation’s provision for loan losses and may reduce the Corporation’s net income. Changes in national and regional economic conditions continue to impact the loan portfolios of the Corporation. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or changes in interest rates, as well as other factors, have weakened the economies of the communities the Corporation serves. Weakness in the market areas served by the Corporation could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because customers may not want or need the Corporation’s products or services; borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; the value of the collateral securing the Corporation’s loans to borrowers may decline; and the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter three scenarios could require the Corporation to charge-off a higher percentage of its loans and/or increase its provision for loan losses, which would reduce its net income. The prolonged negative effect of the recession and weak economic recovery may adversely affect the Corporation’s financial performance. The Corporation’s financial performance generally, and the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay the principal of outstanding loans and the value of the collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business and economic conditions in the markets in which the Corporation and its subsidiaries operate and in the U.S. as a whole. The severe recession and weak economic recovery have resulted in continued uncertainty in the financial and credit markets in general. There is also concern about the possibility of another economic downturn if government spending cuts resulting from budget sequestration under the Budget Controls Act of 2011 become effective. A prolonged weakness or further deterioration in the economy generally, and in the financial services industry in particular, could negatively affect the Corporation’s operations by causing an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for the Corporation’s products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation could be adversely affected by changes in the law, especially changes in the regulation of the banking industry. The Corporation and its subsidiaries operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by several governmental agencies, including the FRB, OCC and FDIC. Regulations are generally intended to provide protection for depositors, borrowers and other customers rather than for investors. The Corporation is subject to changes in federal and state law, regulations, governmental policies, tax laws and accounting principles. Changes in regulations or the regulatory environment could adversely affect the banking and financial services industry as a whole and could limit the Corporation’s growth and the return to investors by restricting such activities as: • the payment of dividends; • mergers with or acquisitions of other institutions; • investments; • loans and interest rates; • assessments of fees, such as overdraft and electronic transfer interchange fees; 24 Table of Contents • the provision of securities, insurance or trust services; and • the types of non-deposit activities in which the Corporation’s financial institution subsidiaries may engage. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, the Corporation and FNBPA must meet guidelines subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to those regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. Changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and implemented by the FRB, when fully phased in, will likely require the Corporation to satisfy additional, more stringent capital adequacy standards. In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its proposed final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, now officially identified by the Basel Committee as “Basel III.” Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. banking agencies beginning on January 1, 2013 and fully phased in on January 1, 2019, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. Basel III also provides for a “countercyclical capital buffer,” an additional capital requirement that generally is to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess aggregate credit growth has become associated with a buildup of systemic risk, in order to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions that maintain insufficient capital to comply with the capital conservation buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. Additionally, the proposed Basel III framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests, including a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains a level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets greater than or equal to the entity’s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario, and a net stable funding ratio (NSFR) designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding based on the liquidity characteristics of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. The LCR and NSFR have proposed adoption dates beginning in 2015 and 2018, respectively. On June 6, 2012, the OCC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies issued a series of proposed rules to revise their risk-based and leverage capital requirements and their method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with the Basel III framework. The proposed rules would apply to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more, and top-tier savings and loan holding companies (“banking organizations”). Among other things, the proposed rules establish a new common equity tier 1 (CET1) minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets) and a higher minimum tier 1 capital requirement (from 4.0% to 6.0% of risk-weighted assets), and assign higher risk weightings (150%) to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status and certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. When fully phased in, Basel III requires financial institutions to maintain: (a) as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0%); (b) a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation); (c) a minimum ratio of Total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation); and (d) as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 3.0%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet exposures (computed as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the quarter). In addition, the proposed rules also limit a banking organization’s capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a “capital conservation buffer”. 25 Table of Contents When issued, the proposed rules indicated that final rules would become effective on January 1, 2013, and that the changes set forth in the final rules would be phased in from January 1, 2013 through January 1, 2019. On November 9, 2012, pursuant to a joint release, the federal bank agencies announced that they did not expect that any of the proposed rules would become effective on January 1, 2013. As members of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the U.S. agencies take seriously the internationally agreed timing commitments regarding the implementation of Basel III and are working as expeditiously as possible to complete the rulemaking process. As with any rule, the agencies will take operational and other considerations into account when determining appropriate implementation dates and associated transition periods. The Corporation expects that future risk weighted capital ratios determined pursuant to asset risk weightings as they may ultimately be structured under the prospective Basel III computational framework will differ unfavorably when compared to current computations. In light of the current uncertainty regarding the final structure of the computational framework, the Corporation cannot currently estimate the impact of the proposal on reported risk weighted capital ratios. These changes to present capital and liquidity requirements could restrict the Corporation’s activities and require it to maintain additional capital. Compliance with heightened capital standards may reduce its ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets and thereby restrict revenue generation from banking and non-banking operations. If the Corporation fails to meet these minimum liquidity capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, its financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. The Dodd-Frank Act effects fundamental changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, some of which may adversely affect the Corporation’s business. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new regulatory requirements and oversight over banks and other financial institutions in a number of ways, among which are: (i) creating the CFPB to regulate consumer financial products and services; (ii) creating the FSOC to identify and impose additional regulatory oversight on large financial firms; (iii) granting orderly liquidation authority to the FDIC for the liquidation of financial corporations that pose a risk to the financial system of the U.S.; (iv) limiting debit card interchange fees; (v) adopting certain changes to stockholder rights, including a stockholder “say on pay” vote on executive compensation; (vi) strengthening the SEC’s powers to regulate securities markets; (vii) regulating OTC derivative markets; (viii) making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions; (ix) providing consumers a defense of set-off or recoupment in a foreclosure or collection action if the lender violates the newly created “reasonable ability to repay” provision; (x) amending the Truth in Lending Act with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, disallowing mandatory arbitration, and prepayment considerations; (xi) the “Volcker Rule” which, among other things, imposes restrictions on proprietary trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies and (xii) reform related to the regulation of credit rating agencies. Regulators are tasked with adopting regulations that implement and define the breadth and scope of many of these changes. A number of the regulations that must be adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act have yet to be proposed, and it is difficult to gauge the impact of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act because so many important details related to the concepts adopted in the Dodd-Frank Act were left within the discretion of the regulators. For example, the CFPB has the power to adopt new regulations to protect consumers, which power it may exercise at its discretion so long as it advances the general concept of the protection of consumers. Consequently, the impact of these regulations and other regulations to be adopted pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act is unclear, but may impair the Corporation’s ability to meet all of the product needs of its customers, lead customers to seek financial solutions and products through non-banking channels and adversely affect the Corporation’s profits. Moreover, the increased regulatory scrutiny set forth in the bill and the various proposed mechanisms by which the regulated entities reimburse the regulatory agencies for the increased costs associated with implementing the increased regulatory scrutiny will likely increase the Corporation’s cost of compliance, divert its resources and may adversely affect profits. Among those regulations that have been proposed or adopted, the following may adversely affect the business of the Corporation: • limitations on debit card interchange fees may affect its profits; 26 Table of Contents • changing the methodology for calculating deposit insurance premium rates will become more complex, less predictable and more pro-cyclical, adversely affecting its profits and diverting its resources; • changing the procedures for liquidation may adversely impact its credit ratings and adversely impact its liquidity, profits, and its ability to fund itself; • increases in requirements for regulatory capital while eliminating certain sources of capital may adversely affect its profits; and • the ability to pay interest on commercial demand deposit accounts may increase its interest expenses. These provisions may limit the types of products the Corporation is able to offer, the methods of offering them and prices at which they are offered. They may also increase the cost of offering these products. These provisions likely will affect different financial institutions in different ways, and therefore, may also affect the competitive landscape. Increases in or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings. Since 2008, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted its DIF. In addition, the FDIC instituted temporary programs, some of which were made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act, to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-insured banks, which have placed additional stress on the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums to replenish the depleted insurance fund. With the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in July 2010, the minimum reserve ratio for the DIF was increased from 1.15% to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits, or the assessment base, and the FDIC was directed to take the steps needed to cause the reserve ratio of the DIF to reach 1.35% of estimated insured deposits by September 30, 2020. On December 15, 2010, as part of its long-range management plan to ensure that the DIF is able to maintain a positive balance despite banking crises and steady, moderate assessment rates despite economic and credit cycles, the FDIC set the DIF’s designated reserve ratio, or DRR, at 2% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC is required to offset the effect of the increased minimum reserve ratio for banks with assets of less than $10 billion, so smaller community banks will be spared the cost of funding the increase in the minimum reserve ratio. As of January 1, 2012, the assets of FNBPA exceeded the $10 billion threshold. Historically, the FDIC utilized a risk-based assessment system that imposed insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account several components, including but not limited to the bank’s capital level and supervisory rating. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, in February 2011, the FDIC amended its regulations to base insurance assessments on the average consolidated assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period; to set deposit insurance assessment rates in light of the new assessment base; and to revise the assessment system applicable to large banks (those having at least $10 billion in total assets) to better differentiate for the risks that a large bank could pose to the DIF. The likely effect of the new assessment scheme will be to increase assessment fees for institutions that rely more heavily on non-deposit funding sources. However, the higher assessments for institutions that have relied on non-deposit sources of funding in the past could force these institutions to change their funding models and more actively search for deposits. If this happens, it could drive up the costs to attain deposits across the market, a situation that would negatively impact community banks like FNBPA, which derive the majority of their funding from deposits. The Corporation generally will be unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. Any future increases in or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition or results of operations. In light of the recent increases in the 27 Table of Contents assessment rates, the potential for additional increases, and the Corporation’s status as a large bank, FNBPA may be required to pay additional amounts to the DIF, which would have an adverse effect on its earnings. If FNBPA’s deposit insurance premium assessment rate increases again, either because of its risk classification, because of emergency assessments, or because of another uniform increase, the earnings of the Corporation could be further adversely impacted. The expiration of unlimited FDIC insurance on certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts may increase the Corporation’s costs and reduce its liquidity levels. On December 31, 2012, unlimited FDIC insurance on certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts expired. Unlimited insurance coverage does not apply to money market deposit accounts or negotiable order of withdrawal accounts. The reduction in FDIC insurance on other types of accounts to the standard $250,000 maximum amount may cause depositors to place such funds in fully insured interest-bearing accounts, which would increase our costs of funds and negatively affect our results of operations, or may cause depositors to withdraw their deposits and invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the UST. This may reduce the Corporation’s liquidity, or require it to pay higher interest rates to maintain the Corporation’s liquidity by retaining deposits. The Corporation must comply with new stress-testing requirements. In October, 2012, the FRB, OCC and FDIC finalized regulations implementing the stress testing requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. The newly imposed stress test rule stipulates that all U.S. banks such as the Corporation with consolidated assets between $10 billion and $50 billion are required to conduct annual stress tests calculated under a multi-scenario analysis. The economic and financial market scenarios to be used in the annual company-run stress test include baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios. Each includes 26 variables, including economic activity, unemployment, exchange rates, prices, incomes and interest rates. The adverse and severely adverse scenarios are not forecasts, but rather hypothetical scenarios designed to assess the strength and resilience of financial institutions. The final rule pushed back the compliance date for model submission until October 2013, and additionally delayed the public disclosure provisions until the completion of the 2014 data collection cycle. If the Corporation fails to meet these stress-test requirements, its financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Recently adopted rules regulating the imposition of debit card income may adversely affect the operations of the Corporation. On June 29, 2011, the FRB, pursuant to its authority under the Dodd-Frank Act, issued rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by payment card issuers having assets over $10 billion, adopting a per-transaction interchange cap base of $0.21 plus a 5-basis point fraud loss adjustment per transaction. The FRB deemed such fees reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer. Entities which had assets in excess of $10 billion as of December 31, 2011 were required to comply with those rules effective as of July 1, 2012. Beginning in 2012 and for each calendar year thereafter, entities having assets in excess of $10 billion as of the end of that calendar year will be required to comply with those rules no later than the immediately following July 1. Following completion of the Parkvale acquisition on January 1, 2012, the Corporation’s assets exceeded the $10 billion threshold. The Corporation will be subject to the FRB rules concerning debit card interchange fees as of July 1, 2013. The Corporation estimates that its revenues earned from interchange fees could decrease by $9.0 million or more per year. The Corporation’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Corporation relies heavily on internal and outsourced digital technologies and communications and information systems in key aspects of its business. The Corporation uses those technologies and systems to manage its customer relationships, general ledger, deposits and loans. Although the Corporation has policies and 28 Table of Contents procedures designed to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions and security breaches and maintains cyber security insurance, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Corporation’s technology systems (internal or outsourced) could damage the Corporation’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, discourage customers from using mobile bill pay, mobile banking and online banking services, and result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, or destruction of proprietary information, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or stock price. As cyber threats continue to evolve and increase, the Corporation may also be required to spend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. The Corporation is dependent upon outside third parties for processing and handling of its records and data. In addition, the Corporation outsources certain of its data-processing to third-party providers. Those third-party providers could also be sources of operational and information security risk to the Corporation, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. If its third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if the Corporation has difficulty in communicating with them, the Corporation’s ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and its business operations could be adversely impacted and result in a loss of customers and business, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation continually encounters technological change. The banking and financial services industry continually undergoes technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. The Corporation’s future success will depend, in part, on its ability to address customer needs by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as create additional efficiencies in the Corporation’s operations. Many of the Corporation’s competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements, and the Corporation may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or do so as quickly as its competitors. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the banking and financial services industry could negatively affect the Corporation’s revenue and profit. The Corporation could experience significant difficulties and complications in connection with its growth and acquisition strategy. The Corporation has grown significantly over the last few years, partly through acquisitions, and intends to seek to continue to grow by acquiring financial institutions and branches as well as non-depository entities engaged in permissible activities for its financial institution subsidiaries. However, the market for acquisitions is highly competitive. The Corporation may not be as successful in identifying financial institutions and branch acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions or preventing deposit erosion at acquired institutions or branches as it currently anticipates. As part of its acquisition strategy, the Corporation may acquire additional banks and non-bank entities that it believes provide a strategic fit with its business. To the extent that the Corporation is successful with this strategy, it cannot assure you that it will be able to manage this growth adequately and profitably. For example, acquiring any bank or non-bank entity will involve risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and non-bank entities that the Corporation acquires; 29 Table of Contents • exposure to potential asset quality issues of acquired banks and non-bank entities; • potential disruption to the Corporation’s business; • potential diversion of the time and attention of the Corporation’s management; and • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and other businesses that the Corporation acquires. In addition to acquisitions, the Corporation may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen its position in its current markets by undertaking additional de novo branch openings. Based on its experience, the Corporation believes that it generally takes up to three years for new banking facilities to achieve operational profitability due to the impact of organizational and overhead expenses and the start-up phase of generating loans and deposits. To the extent that the Corporation undertakes additional de novo branch openings, it is likely to continue to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new banking facilities, which may have an adverse effect on its net income, earnings per share, return on average shareholders’ equity and return on average assets. The Corporation may encounter unforeseen expenses, as well as difficulties and complications in integrating expanded operations and new employees without disruption to its overall operations. Following each acquisition, the Corporation must expend substantial resources to integrate the entities. The integration of non-banking entities often involves combining different industry cultures and business methodologies. The failure to integrate acquired entities successfully with the Corporation’s existing operations may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The Corporation’s continued pace of growth may require it to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. The Corporation is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations (see the Government Supervision and Regulation section included in Item 1 of this Report). As a financial holding company, the Corporation seeks to maintain capital sufficient to meet the “well-capitalized” standard set by regulators. The Corporation anticipates that its current capital resources will satisfy its capital requirements for the foreseeable future. The Corporation may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support continued growth, whether such growth occurs internally or through acquisitions. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of the Corporation’s control, such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, the Corporation’s credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of the Corporation’s long- or short-term financial prospects if the Corporation incurs large credit losses or if the level of business activity decreases due to economic conditions. Accordingly, there can be no assurance of the Corporation’s ability to expand its operations through internal growth and acquisitions. As such, the Corporation may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than desired or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. The Corporation’s key assets include its brand and reputation and the Corporation’s business may be affected by how it is perceived in the market place. The Corporation’s brand and its attributes are key assets of the Corporation. The Corporation’s ability to attract and retain banking, insurance, consumer finance, wealth management, merchant banking and corporate clients is highly dependent upon external perceptions of its level of service, trustworthiness, business practices and financial condition. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage the Corporation’s reputation among existing customers and corporate clients, which could make it difficult for the Corporation to attract new clients and maintain existing ones. Adverse developments with respect to the financial services industry may also, by association, negatively impact the Corporation’s reputation, or result in greater 30 Table of Contents regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against the Corporation. Although the Corporation monitors developments for areas of potential risk to its reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s revenues and profitability. The Corporation’s status as a holding company makes it dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations and pay dividends to stockholders. The Corporation is a holding company and conducts almost all of its operations through its subsidiaries. The Corporation does not have any significant assets other than cash and the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Corporation depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends to stockholders. The Corporation’s right to participate in any distribution of earnings or assets of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of creditors of such subsidiaries. Under federal law, the amount of dividends that a national bank, such as FNBPA, may pay in a calendar year is dependent on the amount of its net income for the current year combined with its retained net income for the two preceding years. The OCC has the authority to prohibit FNBPA from paying dividends if it determines such payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. The market price of the Corporation’s common stock is subject to the risk of fluctuations. The market price of the Corporation’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including: • actual or anticipated variations in the Corporation’s operating results, interest income, cash flows or liquidity; • changes in the Corporation’s earnings estimates or those of analysts; • changes in the Corporation’s dividend policy; • publication of research reports about the Corporation or the banking industry generally; • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of the Corporation’s common stock to demand a higher dividend yield; • changes in market valuations of similar institutions; • adverse market reaction to the amount of maturing debt and other liabilities in the near-and medium-term and the Corporation’s ability to refinance such debt and the terms thereof or the Corporation’s plans to incur additional debt in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by institutional shareholders; • speculation in the press or investment community; • the realization of any of the other risk factors included in, or incorporated by reference to, this Report; and • general market and economic conditions. Many of the factors listed above are beyond the Corporation’s control. Those factors may cause the market price of the Corporation’s common stock to decline, regardless of its financial performance and condition and prospects. It is impossible to provide any assurance that the market price of the Corporation’s common stock will not fall in the future, and it may be difficult for holders to resell shares of the Corporation’s common stock at prices they find attractive, or at all. Certain provisions of the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and Florida law may discourage takeovers. The Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage or may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Corporation’s Board of Directors. In particular, the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws: • require stockholders to give the Corporation advance notice to nominate candidates for election to its Board of Directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting; 31 Table of Contents • permit the Corporation’s Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval unless otherwise required by law, preferred stock with such terms as its Board of Directors may determine; • require the vote of the holders of at least 75% of the Corporation’s voting shares for stockholder amendments to its By-laws; Under Florida law, the approval of a business combination with a stockholder owning 10% or more of the voting shares of a corporation requires the vote of holders of at least two-thirds of the voting shares not owned by such stockholder, unless the transaction is approved by a majority of the corporation’s disinterested directors. In addition, Florida law generally provides that shares of a corporation that are acquired in excess of certain specified thresholds will not possess any voting rights unless the voting rights are approved by a majority of the corporation’s disinterested stockholders. These provisions of the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and of Florida law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, even though a majority of the Corporation’s stockholders may consider such proposals desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace members of the Corporation’s Board of Directors. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for stockholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market price of the Corporation’s common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock that could result from takeover attempts. The Corporation will incur transaction and merger-related costs in connection with its pending mergers. The Corporation expects to incur costs associated with combining its operations with those of ANNB and PVF. The Corporation has just recently begun collecting information regarding PVF in order to formulate detailed integration plans to deliver planned synergies. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of the Corporation and those of ANNB and PVF. Whether or not the mergers are consummated, the Corporation will incur expenses, such as legal, accounting, printing and financial advisory fees, in pursuing the mergers. Although the Corporation expects that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, may offset incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. The Corporation may encounter integration difficulties or may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of its pending mergers. The success of each of the mergers will depend on, among other things, the Corporation’s ability to combine the businesses of FNBPA and those of BankAnnapolis and Park View Federal Savings Bank (Park View) within the Corporation’s projected timeframe and in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of BankAnnapolis or Park View nor result in decreased revenues due to any loss of customers. If the Corporation is not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the mergers may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The Corporation, ANNB and PVF have operated and, until the completion of the mergers, will continue to operate, independently. Certain employees of ANNB and PVF may not be employed after the mergers. In addition, employees of ANNB and PVF that the Corporation wishes to retain may elect to terminate their employment as a result of the mergers, which could delay or disrupt the integration process. It is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of the Corporation’s, ANNB’s or PCF’s ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the ability of the Corporation, ANNB or PVF to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the mergers. Banks which have recently been subject to formal regulatory supervision, such as Park View, may pose additional risks in the integration process. To the extent there are any supervisory issues which cannot be resolved by the acquisition of Park View, the Corporation may need to incur additional compliance costs to address those issues. 32 Table of Contents The Corporation believes a combined company will achieve enhanced earnings due to, among other things, reduction of duplicate costs, improved efficiency and cross-marketing opportunities. If completion of the mergers is delayed or the Corporation experiences integration difficulties, including those discussed in the paragraphs above, the Corporation may not realize the anticipated benefits of the mergers at all, or the benefits of the mergers may take longer to realize than anticipated. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the mergers in the timeframes projected by the Corporation could result in increased costs and decreased revenues. The Corporation’s lack of operating experience in Maryland may adversely impact the Corporation’s ability to successfully compete in this market area. The proposed merger between the Corporation and ANNB expands the Corporation’s current market area into Anne Arundel and Queen Anne’s counties, Maryland. While this new market area is contiguous with the Corporation’s existing market area, it is outside of the markets in which the Corporation’s senior management has extensive knowledge and experience and is a more competitive market environment than the markets in which the Corporation currently operates. The Corporation’s success in this new market will depend, in part, on its ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced personnel (particularly bankers who are knowledgeable of the banking and financing needs of businesses that support U.S. government agencies) to supplement the existing ANNB team for businesses that ANNB does not currently engage in, such as asset-based lending, wealth management, private banking and insurance. Although the Corporation expects to retain the services of ANNB’s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, as Regional Chairman for a period of one year following the completion of the merger to assist with transition matters relating to the Annapolis, Maryland market, there can be no guarantee that this executive will serve the entire one-year term; or that his services will ensure the Corporation’s entry into the Annapolis, Maryland market proceeds according to the expectations of the Corporation’s management. Also, the lack of awareness of the Corporation brand in the Maryland markets may adversely affect its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel as well as the Corporation’s overall ability to compete in the new market area. Accordingly, there is a risk that the Corporation will lose customers in this new market area, may not adequately address this new market in terms of the products and services that the Corporation proposes to offer, or may be unable to successfully compete with institutions already established within this market area. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE. 