ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As a financial services organization, the Corporation takes on a certain amount of risk in every business decision and activity. For example, every time FNBPA opens an account or approves a loan for a customer, processes a payment, hires a new employee, or implements a new computer system, FNBPA and the Corporation incur a certain amount of risk. As an organization, the Corporation must balance revenue generation and profitability with the risks associated with its business activities. The objective of risk management is not to eliminate risk, but to identify and accept risk and then manage risk effectively so as to optimize total shareholder value. The Corporation has identified six major categories of risk: credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, reputational risk, operational risk and regulatory compliance risk. The Corporation more fully describes credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk, and the programs the Corporation’s management has implemented to address these risks, in the Market Risk section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, which is included in Item 7 of this Report. Reputational risk relates to a risk of loss resulting from damage to a company’s reputation, in lost revenue or destruction of shareholder value, even if the company is not found guilty of a crime. Operational risk arises from inadequate information systems and technology, weak internal control systems or other failed internal processes or systems, human error, fraud or external events. Regulatory compliance risk relates to each of the other five major categories of risk listed above, but specifically addresses internal control failures that result in non-compliance with laws, rules, regulations, safety and soundness or ethical standards. The following discussion highlights specific risks that could affect the Corporation and its businesses. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Report. Based on the information currently known, the Corporation believes that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting the Corporation. However, the risks and uncertainties the Corporation faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the Corporation currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect its business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of the Corporation’s securities. The Corporation’s results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans. Lending money is an essential part of the banking business. However, for various reasons, borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is affected by: • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; • the duration of the loan; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral. 23 Table of Contents Generally, commercial/industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans present a greater risk of non-payment by a borrower than other types of loans. For additional information, see the Lending Activity section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, which is included in Item 7 of this Report. In addition, consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields compared to real estate mortgage loans, but generally carry higher risks of default. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. The Corporation’s financial condition may be adversely affected if it is unable to attract sufficient deposits to fund its anticipated loan growth. The Corporation funds its loan growth primarily through deposits. Deposits are a low cost and stable source of funding for the Corporation. However, the Corporation competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. To the extent that the Corporation is unable to attract and maintain sufficient levels of deposits to fund its loan growth, it would be required to raise additional funds through public or private financings. The Corporation can give no assurance that it would be able to obtain these funds on terms that are attractive to it. The Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if its allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses. The Corporation can give no assurance that its allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb actual loan losses. Excess loan losses could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation attempts to maintain an adequate allowance for loan losses to provide for estimated losses inherent in its loan portfolio as of the reporting date. The Corporation periodically determines the amount of its allowance for loan losses based upon consideration of several quantitative and qualitative factors including, but not limited to, the following: • a regular review of the quality, mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; • historical loan loss experience; • evaluation of non-performing loans; • geographic or industry concentration; • assessment of economic conditions and their effects on the Corporation’s existing portfolio; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing loans. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects the judgment and estimates of management regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows, current fair value of the underlying collateral and other qualitative risk factors that may affect the loan. Determination of the allowance is inherently subjective and is based on factors that are susceptible to significant change. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Corporation’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Corporation’s allowance and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Corporation will need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in the allowance will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion relating to this matter, refer to the Allowance and Provision for Loan Losses section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, which is included in Item 7 of this Report. 24 Table of Contents The Corporation’s results of operations may be adversely affected if asset valuations cause other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) or goodwill impairment charges. The Corporation may be required to record future impairment charges on its investment securities if they suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on the Corporation’s investment portfolio in future periods. Goodwill is assessed annually for impairment and declines in value could result in a future non-cash charge to earnings. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of FNBPA to pay dividends to the Corporation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s liquidity and its ability to pay dividends to stockholders and could also negatively impact its regulatory capital ratios and result in FNBPA not being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Interest rate volatility could significantly harm the Corporation’s business. The Corporation’s results of operations are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. A significant component of the Corporation’s earnings consists of its net interest income, which is the difference between the income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the expense of interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. A change in market interest rates could adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings if market interest rates change such that the interest the Corporation pays on deposits and borrowings increase at a faster rate or decrease at a slower rate than the interest it collects on loans and investments. Consequently, the Corporation, along with other financial institutions, generally will be sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Changes in economic conditions and the composition of the Corporation’s loan portfolio could lead to higher loan charge-offs or an increase in the Corporation’s provision for loan losses and may reduce the Corporation’s net income. Changes in national and regional economic conditions continue to impact the loan portfolios of the Corporation. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or changes in interest rates, as well as other factors, have weakened the economies of the communities the Corporation serves. Weakness in the market areas served by the Corporation could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because customers may not want or need the Corporation’s products or services; borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; the value of the collateral securing the Corporation’s loans to borrowers may decline; and the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter three scenarios could require the Corporation to charge-off a higher percentage of its loans and/or increase its provision for loan losses, which would reduce its net income. The Corporation’s business and financial performance is impacted significantly by market rates and changes in those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the UST and the FRB, have a direct impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which the Corporation and its subsidiary bank have no control and which may not be able to be predicted with reasonable accuracy. As a result of the high percentage of the Corporation’s assets and liabilities that are in the form of interest-bearing or interest-related instruments, changes in interest rates in the shape of the yield curve or in spreads between different market interest rates can have a material effect on its business, profitability and the value of its financial assets and liabilities. Such scenarios may include the following: • Changes in interest rates or interest rate spreads can affect the difference between the interest that FNBPA can earn on assets and the interest that FNBPA may pay on liabilities, which impacts FNBPA’s overall net interest income and profitability; 25 Table of Contents • Such changes can affect the ability of borrowers to meet obligations under variable or adjustable rate loans and other debt instruments and can, in turn, affect the Corporation’s loss rates on those assets; • Such changes may decrease the demand for interest rate-based products or services, including bank loans and deposit products and the Regency note program; • Such changes can also affect the Corporation’s ability to hedge various forms of market and interest rate risks and may decrease the profitability or increase the risk associated with such hedges; and • Movements in interest rates also affect mortgage repayment speeds and could result in impairments of mortgage servicing assets or otherwise affect the profitability of such assets. The monetary, tax and other policies of the U.S. Government and its agencies also have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. An important function of the FRB is to regulate the national supply of bank credit and certain interest rates. The actions of the FRB influence the rates of interest that FNBPA may charge on loans and what FNBPA may pay on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of the Corporation’s and FNBPA’s on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Principally, due to the impact of rates and by controlling access to direct funding from the Federal Reserve Banks, the FRB’s policies also influence to a significant extent, FNBPA’s cost of funding. The Corporation cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary, tax and other policies or the effects that they may have on FNBPA’s and other affiliates’ activities and financial results. The financial soundness of other financial institutions may adversely affect the Corporation, FNBPA and other affiliates. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. The Corporation, FNBPA and other affiliates are exposed to many different industries and counterparties and they routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these type transactions expose the Corporation, FNBPA and other affiliates to credit risk in the event of default of the counterparty or client. In addition, FNBPA and other affiliates’ credit risks may be exacerbated when the collateral held by it cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that it is due. There may be risks resulting from the extensive use of models in the FNBPA’s business. FNBPA relies on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. Models may be used in such processes as determining the pricing of various products, assessing potential acquisition opportunities, for developing presentations made to market analysts and others, creating loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting losses, assessing capital adequacy, capital stress testing and calculating regulatory capital levels, as well as to estimate the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. Poorly designed or implemented models present the risk that FNBPA’s business decisions based on information incorporating models will be adversely affected due to the inadequacy of such information. Also, information the Corporation provides to its shareholders, the public or to its regulators based on poorly designed or implemented models could be inaccurate or misleading. Certain decisions that the regulators make, including those related to capital distributions and dividends to the Corporation’s shareholders, could be adversely affected due to the regulator’s perception that the quality of FNBPA’s models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient. The Corporation’s asset valuation may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and this, along with market factors such as volatility in one or more markets, could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect the Corporation’s subsidiary bank’s results of operations or financial condition. The Corporation and FNBPA must use estimates, assumptions and judgments when assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher 26 Table of Contents degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party resources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, the Corporation estimates fair value primarily by using cash flow and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relative inputs. Changes in underlying factors or assumptions in any of the areas underlying these estimates could materially impact the Corporation’s future financial condition and results of operations. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be more difficult to value certain assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were historically in inactive markets with significant observable data that rapidly become illiquid due to market volatility, a loss in market confidence or other factors. In such cases, valuations in certain asset classes may require more subjectivity and management discretion; valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented market conditions in any particular market (e.g., credit, equity, fixed income) could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. The Corporation is subject to operational risk. Like all businesses, the Corporation is subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes in its systems, human error and external events. Operational risk also encompasses technology, compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of the Corporation’s and its subsidiary’s noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. The Corporation is also exposed to operational risk through its outsourcing arrangements, and the effect the changes in circumstances or capabilities of the Corporation’s outsourcing vendors can have on the Corporation’s ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to the Corporation’s business. Although the Corporation seeks to mitigate operational risks through a system of internal controls which the Corporation regularly reviews and updates, no system of controls, however well designed and maintained, is infallible. Control weaknesses or failures or other operational risk could result in charges, increased operational costs, harm to the Corporation’s reputation or foregone business opportunities. The Corporation’s business may continue to be adversely affected by downturns in the national and local economies in which it operates. The Corporation operates primarily in Pennsylvania, eastern Ohio, Maryland and northern West Virginia. Most of the Corporation’s customers are individuals and small- and medium-sized businesses which are dependent upon their regional economies. A further deterioration or minimal improvement in economic conditions in the market areas the Corporation serves could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations: • demand for the Corporation’s loans, deposits and services may decline; • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • weak economic conditions may continue to limit the demand for loans by creditworthy borrowers, limiting the Corporation’s capacity to leverage its retail deposits and maintain its net interest income; • collateral for the Corporation’s loans may decline further in value; and • the amount of the Corporation’s low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. 27 Table of Contents The Corporation could be adversely affected by changes in the law, especially changes in the regulation of the banking industry. The Corporation and its subsidiaries operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by several governmental agencies, including the SEC, FRB, OCC, CFPB and FDIC. Regulations are generally intended to provide protection for shareholders, depositors, borrowers and other customers rather than for investors. The Corporation is subject to changes in federal and state law, regulations, governmental policies, tax laws and accounting principles. Changes in regulations or the regulatory environment could adversely affect the banking and financial services industry as a whole and could limit the Corporation’s growth and the return to investors by restricting such activities as: • the payment of dividends; • mergers with or acquisitions of other institutions; • investments; • loans and interest rates; • assessments of fees, such as overdraft and electronic transfer interchange fees; • the provision of securities, insurance or trust services; and • the types of non-deposit activities in which the Corporation’s financial institution subsidiaries may engage. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, the Corporation and FNBPA must meet guidelines subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to those regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. Changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the Basel Committee on banking supervision and implemented by the FRB, when fully phased in, will likely require the Corporation to satisfy additional, more stringent and complex capital adequacy standards. These changes to present capital and liquidity requirements could restrict the Corporation’s activities and require it to maintain additional capital. Compliance with heightened capital standards may reduce its ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets and thereby restrict revenue generation from banking and non-banking operations. If the Corporation fails to meet these minimum liquidity capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, its financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. The Dodd-Frank Act effects fundamental changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, some of which may adversely affect the Corporation’s business. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new regulatory requirements and oversight over banks and other financial institutions in a number of ways, among which are: (i) creating the CFPB to regulate consumer financial products and services sold by banks and non-banks, and to review their compliance with federal consumer protection unfair and deceptive practice standards and fair lending laws; (ii) creating the FSOC to identify and impose stronger regulatory oversight on large financial firms and to identify systemic risks; (iii) granting orderly liquidation authority to the FDIC for the liquidation of financial corporations that pose a risk to the financial system of the U.S.; (iv) limiting debit card interchange fees; (v) adopting certain changes to stockholder rights, including a stockholder “say on pay” vote on executive compensation; (vi) strengthening the SEC’s powers to regulate securities markets; (vii) regulating OTC derivative markets; (viii) making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions; (ix) providing consumers a defense of set-off or recoupment in a foreclosure or collection action if the lender violates the newly created “reasonable ability to repay” provision; (x) amending the Truth in Lending Act with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, disallowing mandatory arbitration, and prepayment considerations; (xi) the “Volcker Rule” which, among other things, imposes restrictions on proprietary trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies and restricts the sponsoring of hedge funds or private equity funds; and (xii) reform related to the regulation of credit rating agencies. 28 Table of Contents Regulators are tasked with adopting regulations that implement and define the breadth and scope of the Dodd-Frank Act, many of which have yet to be implemented. A number of the regulations that must be adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act have yet to be proposed, and it is difficult to gauge the impact of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act because so many important details related to the concepts adopted in the Dodd-Frank Act were left within the sole discretion of the regulators. For example, the CFPB has the power to adopt new regulations, such as the QM Rule, to protect consumers, which power it may exercise at its discretion so long as it advances the general concept of the protection of consumers. Consequently, the full impact of these regulations and other regulations to be adopted pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act is unclear, but may impair the Corporation’s ability to meet all of the product needs of its customers, lead customers to seek financial solutions and products through non-banking channels and adversely affect the Corporation’s profits. Moreover, the increased regulatory scrutiny resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act regulations will likely continue to increase the Corporation’s cost of compliance, divert its resources and may adversely affect profits. Among those regulations that have been proposed or adopted, the following may adversely affect the business of the Corporation: • limitations on debit card interchange fees may adversely affect its profits; • changing the methodology for calculating deposit insurance premium rates will become more complex, less predictable and more pro-cyclical, adversely affecting its profits and diverting its resources; • changing the procedures for liquidation may adversely impact its credit ratings and adversely impact its liquidity, profits, and its ability to fund itself; • increases in requirements for regulatory capital while eliminating certain sources of capital may adversely affect its profits; • the ability to pay interest on commercial demand deposit accounts may increase its interest expenses; and • uncertainty as to the types of activities which may be deemed unfair and deceptive practices which may impact fee income opportunities. These provisions may limit the types of products the Corporation is able to offer, the methods of offering them and prices at which they are offered. They may also increase the cost of offering these products. These provisions likely will affect different financial institutions in different ways, and therefore, may also affect the competitive landscape. Increases in or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings. Since 2008, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted its DIF. In addition, the FDIC instituted temporary programs, some of which were made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act, to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-insured banks, which have placed additional stress on the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums to replenish the depleted insurance fund. With the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in July 2010, the minimum reserve ratio for the DIF was increased from 1.15% to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits, or the assessment base, and the FDIC was directed to take the steps needed to cause the reserve ratio of the DIF to reach 1.35% of estimated insured deposits by September 30, 2020. On December 15, 2010, as part of its long-range management plan to ensure that the DIF is able to maintain a positive balance despite banking crises and steady, moderate assessment rates despite economic and credit cycles, the FDIC set the DIF’s designated reserve ratio (DRR) at 2% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC is 29 Table of Contents required to offset the effect of the increased minimum reserve ratio for banks with assets of less than $10 billion, so smaller community banks will be spared the cost of funding the increase in the minimum reserve ratio. As of January 1, 2012, the assets of FNBPA exceeded the $10 billion threshold. Historically, the FDIC utilized a risk-based assessment system that imposed insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account several components, including but not limited to the bank’s capital level and supervisory rating. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, in February 2011, the FDIC amended its regulations to base insurance assessments on the average consolidated assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period; to set deposit insurance assessment rates in light of the new assessment base; and to revise the assessment system applicable to large banks (those having at least $10 billion in total assets) to better differentiate for the risks that a large bank could pose to the DIF. The likely effect of the new assessment scheme will be to increase assessment fees for institutions that rely more heavily on non-deposit funding sources. However, the higher assessments for institutions that have relied on non-deposit sources of funding in the past could force these institutions to change their funding models and more actively search for deposits. If this happens, it could drive up the costs to attain deposits across the market, a situation that would negatively impact community banks like FNBPA, which derive the majority of their funding from deposits. The Corporation generally will be unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. Any future increases in or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition or results of operations. In light of the recent increases in the assessment rates, the potential for additional increases, and the Corporation’s status as a large bank, FNBPA may be required to pay additional amounts to the DIF, which could have an adverse effect on its earnings. If FNBPA’s deposit insurance premium assessment rate increases again, either because of its risk classification, because of emergency assessments, or because of another uniform increase, the earnings of the Corporation could be further adversely impacted. The Corporation must comply with new stress-testing requirements. In October, 2012, the FRB, OCC and FDIC finalized regulations implementing the stress testing requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. The newly imposed stress test rule stipulates that all U.S. banks such as the Corporation with consolidated assets between $10 billion and $50 billion are required to conduct annual stress tests calculated under a multi-scenario analysis. The economic and financial market scenarios to be used in the annual company-run stress test include baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios. Each includes 26 variables, including economic activity, unemployment, exchange rates, prices, incomes and interest rates. The adverse and severely adverse scenarios are not forecasts, but rather hypothetical scenarios designed to assess the strength and resilience of financial institutions under severe economic conditions. The final rule pushed back the compliance date for model submission until March 31, 2014, and additionally delayed the public disclosure provisions until the completion of the 2014 data collection cycle. If the Corporation fails to meet these stress-test requirements, its financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Recently adopted rules regulating the imposition of debit card fees may adversely affect the operations of the Corporation. On June 29, 2011, the FRB, pursuant to its authority under the Dodd-Frank Act, issued rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by payment card issuers having assets over $10 billion, adopting a per-transaction interchange cap base of $0.21 plus a 5-basis point fraud loss adjustment per transaction. There is an appeal pending of an August 2013 federal district court ruling that declared the interchange fee and network non-exclusivity provisions of the FRB debit card interchange fee rule to be invalid and indicated the per-transaction interchange cap base should be reduced. The FRB deemed such fees reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer. Entities which had assets in excess of $10 billion 30 Table of Contents as of December 31, 2011 were required to comply with those rules effective as of July 1, 2012. Beginning in 2012 and for each calendar year thereafter, entities having assets in excess of $10 billion as of the end of that calendar year will be required to comply with those rules no later than the immediately following July 1. Following completion of the Parkvale acquisition on January 1, 2012, the Corporation’s assets exceeded the $10 billion threshold. The Corporation became subject to the FRB rules concerning debit card interchange fees as of July 1, 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the Corporation’s revenues earned from interchange fees decreased by $4.4 million. The actual results would have shown a higher reduction in fees earned, but have been partially offset by the benefits of the additional accounts acquired in the ANNB and PVF mergers. The Corporation’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Corporation relies heavily on internal and outsourced digital technologies and communications and information systems in key aspects of its business. The Corporation uses those technologies and systems to manage its customer relationships, general ledger, deposits and loans. Although the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions and security breaches and maintains cyber security insurance, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Corporation’s technology systems (internal or outsourced) could damage the Corporation’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, discourage customers from using mobile bill pay, mobile banking and online banking services, and result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, or destruction of proprietary information, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or stock price. As cyber threats continue to evolve and increase, the Corporation may also be required to spend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. The Corporation is dependent upon outside third parties for processing and handling of its records and data. In addition, the Corporation outsources certain of its data-processing to third-party providers. Those third-party providers could also be sources of operational and information security risk to the Corporation, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. If its third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if the Corporation has difficulty in communicating with them, the Corporation’s ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and its business operations could be adversely impacted and result in a loss of customers and business, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation continually encounters technological change. The banking and financial services industry continually undergoes technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. The Corporation’s future success will depend, in part, on its ability to address customer needs by using secure technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as create additional efficiencies in the Corporation’s operations. Many of the Corporation’s competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements, and the Corporation may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or do so as quickly as its competitors. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the banking and financial services industry could negatively affect the Corporation’s revenue and profit. 31 Table of Contents The Corporation could experience significant difficulties and complications in connection with its growth and acquisition strategy. The Corporation has grown significantly over the last few years, including through acquisitions, and intends to seek to continue to grow by acquiring financial institutions and branches as well as non-depository entities engaged in permissible activities for its financial institution subsidiaries. However, the market for acquisitions is highly competitive. The Corporation may not be as successful in identifying financial institutions and branch acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions or preventing deposit erosion at acquired institutions or branches as it currently anticipates. Even if the Corporation is successful with this strategy, it cannot assure you that it will be able to manage this growth adequately and profitably. For example, acquiring any bank or non-bank entity will involve risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and non-bank entities that the Corporation acquires; • exposure to potential asset quality issues of acquired banks and non-bank entities; • potential disruption to the Corporation’s business; • potential diversion of the time and attention of the Corporation’s management; and • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and other businesses that the Corporation acquires. The Corporation may encounter unforeseen expenses, as well as difficulties and complications in integrating expanded operations and new employees without disruption to its overall operations. Following each acquisition, the Corporation must expend substantial resources to integrate the entities. The integration of non-banking entities often involves combining different industry cultures and business methodologies. The failure to integrate acquired entities successfully with the Corporation’s existing operations may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. As the Corporation grows, its regulatory costs also may become more significant. In addition to acquisitions, the Corporation may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen its position in its current markets by undertaking additional de novo branch openings. Based on its experience, the Corporation believes that it generally takes up to three years for new banking facilities to achieve operational profitability due to the impact of organizational and overhead expenses and the start-up phase of generating loans and deposits. To the extent that the Corporation undertakes additional de novo branch openings, it is likely to continue to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new banking facilities, which may have an adverse effect on its net income, earnings per share, return on average shareholders’ equity and return on average assets. The Corporation’s growth may require it to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. The Corporation is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations (see the Government Supervision and Regulation section included in Item 1 of this Report). As a financial holding company, the Corporation seeks to maintain capital sufficient to meet the “well-capitalized” standard set by regulators. The Corporation anticipates that its current capital resources will satisfy its capital requirements for the foreseeable future. The Corporation may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support continued growth, whether such growth occurs internally or through acquisitions. The availability of additional capital or financing will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of the Corporation’s control, such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, the Corporation’s credit ratings and credit capacity, marketability of the Corporation’s stock, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of the Corporation’s long- or short-term financial prospects if the Corporation incurs large credit 32 Table of Contents losses or if the level of business activity decreases due to economic conditions. Accordingly, there can be no assurance of the Corporation’s ability to expand its operations through internal growth and acquisitions. As such, the Corporation may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than desired or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. In addition, if the Corporation decides to raise additional equity capital, it could be dilutive to the Corporation’s existing shareholders. The Corporation’s key assets include its brand and reputation and the Corporation’s business may be affected by how it is perceived in the market place. The Corporation’s brand and its attributes are key assets of the Corporation. The Corporation’s ability to attract and retain banking, insurance, consumer finance, wealth management, merchant banking and corporate clients and employees is highly dependent upon external perceptions of its level of service, trustworthiness, business practices and financial condition. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage the Corporation’s reputation among existing customers and corporate clients and employees, which could make it difficult for the Corporation to attract new clients and employees and maintain existing ones. Adverse developments with respect to the financial services industry may also, by association, negatively impact the Corporation’s reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against the Corporation. Although the Corporation monitors developments for areas of potential risk to its reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s revenues and profitability. The Corporation’s status as a holding company makes it dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations and pay dividends to stockholders. The Corporation is a holding company and conducts almost all of its operations through its subsidiaries. The Corporation does not have any significant assets other than cash and the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Corporation depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends to stockholders. The Corporation’s right to participate in any distribution of earnings or assets of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of creditors of such subsidiaries. Under federal law, the amount of dividends that a national bank, such as FNBPA, may pay in a calendar year is dependent on the amount of its net income for the current year combined with its retained net income for the two preceding years. The OCC has the authority to prohibit FNBPA from paying dividends if it determines such payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Regulatory authorities may restrict the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends on and repurchase its common stock. Dividends on the Corporation’s common stock will be payable only if, when and as authorized and declared by its board of directors. In addition, banking laws and regulations and its banking regulators may limit the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends and make share repurchases. For example, the Corporation’s ability to make capital distributions, including its ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of its common stock, is subject to the review and non-objection of its annual capital plan by the FRB. In certain circumstances, the Corporation will not be able to make a capital distribution unless the FRB has approved such distribution, including if the dividend could not be fully funded by the Corporation’s net income over the last four quarters (net of dividends paid), the Corporation’s prospective rate of earnings retention appears inconsistent with its capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition, or the Corporation will not be able to continue meeting minimum required capital ratios. As a bank holding company, the Corporation also is required to consult with the FRB before increasing dividends or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. Additionally, the FRB could prohibit or limit the Corporation’s payment of dividends if it determines that payment of the dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will declare and pay any dividends or repurchase any shares of its common stock in the future. 33 Table of Contents The Corporation has outstanding securities senior to the common stock which may limit the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock. The Corporation has outstanding TPS and Series E preferred stock that are senior to the common stock and could adversely affect the ability of the Corporation to declare or pay dividends or distributions on the Corporation’s common stock. The terms of the TPS prohibit the Corporation from declaring or paying dividends or making distributions on its junior capital stock, including the common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on any junior capital stock, if: (1) an event of default has occurred and is continuing under the junior subordinated debentures underlying the TPS, (2) the Corporation is in default with respect to a guarantee payment under the guarantee of the related TPS or (3) the Corporation has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. The Corporation also would be prohibited from paying dividends on its common stock unless all full dividends for the latest dividend period have been declared and paid on all outstanding shares of the Series E preferred stock. If the Corporation experiences a material deterioration in its financial condition, liquidity, capital, results of operations or risk profile, the Corporation’s regulators may not permit it to make future payments on its TPS or preferred stock, which would also prevent the Corporation from paying any dividends on its common stock. Certain provisions of the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and Florida law may discourage takeovers. The Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage or may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Corporation’s Board of Directors. In particular, the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws: • require stockholders to give the Corporation advance notice to nominate candidates for election to its Board of Directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting; • permit the Corporation’s Board of Directors to issue, without approval of its common stockholders unless otherwise required by law, preferred stock with such terms as its Board of Directors may determine; • require the vote of the holders of at least 75% of the Corporation’s voting shares for stockholder amendments to its By-laws. Under Florida law, the approval of a business combination with a stockholder owning 10% or more of the voting shares of a corporation requires the vote of holders of at least two-thirds of the voting shares not owned by such stockholder, unless the transaction is approved by a majority of the corporation’s disinterested directors. In addition, Florida law generally provides that shares of a corporation that are acquired in excess of certain specified thresholds will not possess any voting rights unless the voting rights are approved by a majority of the corporation’s disinterested stockholders. These provisions of the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and of Florida law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, even though a majority of the Corporation’s stockholders may consider such proposals desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace members of the Corporation’s Board of Directors. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for stockholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market price of the Corporation’s common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock that could result from takeover attempts. 34 Table of Contents The success of the Corporation’s acquisitions of PVF and BCSB will depend on a number of uncertain factors. The success of the Corporation’s recent acquisitions of PVF and BCSB will depend on a number of factors, including, without limitation: • the Corporation’s ability to successfully integrate the acquired companies into its current operations, including converting the acquired companies’ products and systems to FNBPA products and systems; • the Corporation’s ability to retain the acquired companies’ customers, and their loan, deposits and other businesses; • the credit quality of loans and other acquired assets; • the Corporation’s ability to retain appropriate personnel from the acquired companies in connection with the acquisitions; • the Corporation’s ability to attract new deposits and to generate new interest earning assets in the new markets without incurring unacceptable credit or interest rate risk; • the Corporation’s ability to control non-interest expenses from the acquired companies in a manner that enables it to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio; and • the Corporation’s ability to earn acceptable levels of non-interest income, including fee income, from former customers of the acquired companies. No assurance can be given that the Corporation will be able to integrate PVF and BCSB successfully, that the acquisitions will not expose the Corporation to unknown material liabilities, that the operation of the acquired companies former businesses will not adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations or cash flows, that the Corporation will be able to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by its existing banking business, that the Corporation will be able to compete effectively in the acquired companies former market areas, or that the Corporation will be able to manage growth resulting from the acquisitions effectively. The Corporation may encounter difficulties in integrating the businesses of BCSB, which were acquired by the Corporation in February 2014 within a relatively short time period after commencing integration of the businesses of PVF, which were acquired by the Corporation in October 2013. The Corporation’s current and planned operations, personnel, facility size and configuration, systems and internal procedures and controls might be inefficient or inadequate to support these efforts at the same time. As a result, the Corporation may encounter difficulties or costs in the integration that could materially and adversely affect it. Deposit and loan run-off rates could be substantially different than what the Corporation projected in planning for the acquisitions and the integration of PVF and BCSB. Deposit run-off is expected to occur following the closing of the Corporation’s acquisitions of PVF and BCSB. While the Corporation believes it assumed a reasonable deposit run-off rate for purposes of valuing the transactions, actual run-off could be higher. Similarly, the Corporation may lose loan relationships acquired through these acquisitions. The Corporation converted PVF and BCSB’s products and systems to its products and systems. Problems or errors in the customer account conversion process, and customer interface required to replace certain products and services of the acquired companies with comparable products and services of FNBPA, could adversely affect customer relationships, increase run-off of deposit and loan customers and result in unexpected charges and costs. Similarly, run-off could increase if the Corporation is not able to cost-effectively service particular loans, deposits or other products or services with special features of the acquired companies. An unanticipated increase in customer run-off rates could increase the effective cost to the Corporation of these acquisitions. The credit quality of the loans the Corporation acquires from PVF and BCSB may be poorer than expected, which would require the Corporation to increase its allowance for loan losses and negatively affect its earnings. Pursuant to the Agreements and Plans of Merger between the Corporation and PVF and the Corporation and BCSB, the Corporation will acquire loans. As part of the Corporation’s due diligence review of these 35 Table of Contents acquired companies, it reviewed samples of loans and made estimated marks for credit and interest risks. The Corporation’s examination of these loans was made using the same criteria, analyses and collateral evaluations that it has traditionally used in the ordinary course of its business. However, no assurance can be given as to the future performance of these acquired loans, which if poorer than expected would require the Corporation to increase its allowance for loan losses and negatively affect its earnings. The Corporation will be exposed to risks related to lending funds as a result of its acquisitions of PVF and BCSB. The Corporation’s and FNBPA’s strategic plan focuses on the continued development and growth of a diversified loan portfolio, with emphasis on commercial loans made to borrowers within FNBPA’s market areas. Certain risks are inherent in the lending function, including a borrower’s inability to pay, insufficient collateral coverage and changes in interest rates. Repayment risk on commercial loans arises from changing economic conditions in particular geographic areas, businesses or industries that impair the operating performance of commercial borrowers. Risks associated with commercial real estate loans and general business loans also include changes in general economic conditions that affect underlying collateral values. Consumer loans also are subject to repayment risk and undercollateralization (in the case of secured consumer loans) caused by changing economic conditions. The Corporation has limited operating experience in Maryland, which may adversely impact its ability to compete successfully in this market area. The Corporation first entered the Baltimore, Maryland market in April 2013 with its acquisition of ANNB. The Baltimore, Maryland market is outside of the markets in which most members of the Corporation’s senior management have extensive knowledge and experience. The Corporation may not be able to retain existing customers of Baltimore County Savings Bank or adequately address the Baltimore market in terms of the products and services that it proposes to offer, or otherwise compete successfully against institutions already established within this market area. The Corporation’s success in the Baltimore market will depend, in large part, on its ability to identify, attract and retain qualified and experienced personnel with local expertise and relationships in the Baltimore market to supplement the existing management team. The newness of the Corporation’s brand in the Maryland markets may adversely affect its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel as well as its overall ability to compete for customers in this market area. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE. 