ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As a financial services organization, the Corporation takes on a certain amount of risk in every business decision and activity. For example, every time FNBPA opens an account or approves a loan for a customer, processes a payment, hires a new employee, or implements a new computer system, FNBPA and the Corporation incur a certain amount of risk. As an organization, the Corporation must balance revenue generation and profitability with the risks associated with its business activities. The objective of risk management is not to eliminate risk, but to identify and accept risk and then manage risk effectively so as to optimize total shareholder value. 16 Table of Contents The Corporation has identified five major categories of risk: credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and compliance risk. The Corporation more fully describes credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk, and the programs the Corporation’s management has implemented to address these risks, in the Market Risk section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7 of this Report. Operational risk arises from inadequate information systems and technology, weak internal control systems or other failed internal processes or systems, human error, fraud or external events. Compliance risk relates to each of the other four major categories of risk listed above, but specifically addresses internal control failures that result in non-compliance with laws, rules, regulations or ethical standards. The following discussion highlights specific risks that could affect the Corporation and its businesses. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Report. Based on the information currently known, the Corporation believes that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting the Corporation. However, the risks and uncertainties the Corporation faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the Corporation currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect its business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse affect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative affect on the trading price of the Corporation’s securities. The Corporation’s results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans. Lending money is an essential part of the banking business. However, borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is affected by: • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; • the duration of the loan; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral. Generally, commercial/industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans present a greater risk of non-payment by a borrower than other types of loans. For additional information, see the Lending Activity section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7 of this Report. In addition, consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields compared to real estate mortgage loans, but generally carry higher risks of default. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. The Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if its allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses. The Corporation can give no assurance that its allowance for loan losses is or will be sufficient to absorb actual loan losses. Excess loan losses could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation attempts to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for estimated losses inherent in its loan portfolio as of the reporting date. The Corporation periodically determines the amount of its allowance for loan losses based upon consideration of several quantitative and qualitative factors including, but not limited to, the following: • a regular review of the quality, mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; • historical loan loss experience; • evaluation of non-performing loans; 17 Table of Contents • geographic concentration; • assessment of economic conditions and their effects on the Corporation’s existing portfolio; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing loans. For additional discussion relating to this matter, refer to the Allowance and Provision for Loan Losses section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7 of this Report. Changes in economic conditions and the composition of the Corporation’s loan portfolio could lead to higher loan charge-offs or an increase in the Corporation’s provision for loan losses and may reduce the Corporation’s net income. Changes in national and regional economic conditions continue to impact the loan portfolios of the Corporation. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or changes in interest rates, as well as other factors, have weakened the economies of the communities the Corporation serves. Weakness in the market areas served by the Corporation could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because customers may not want or need the Corporation’s products or services; borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; the value of the collateral securing the Corporation’s loans to borrowers may decline; and the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter three scenarios could require the Corporation to charge-off a higher percentage of its loans and/or increase its provision for loan losses, which would reduce its net income. The Corporation may continue to be adversely affected by the downturn in Florida real estate markets. Many Florida real estate markets, including the markets in Orlando, Sarasota and Tampa, where the Corporation had operated loan production offices, continued to decline in value throughout 2009 and may continue to undergo further declines. The Corporation operates three commercial loan production offices in the Florida market and is therefore exposed to the further weakening real estate conditions in the Florida geographic region. During a period of prolonged general economic downturn in the Florida market, the Corporation may experience further increases in non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. The Corporation’s continued pace of growth may require it to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. The Corporation is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations (see the Government Supervision and Regulation section included in Item 1 of this Report). As a financial holding company, the Corporation seeks to maintain capital sufficient to meet the “well-capitalized” standard set by regulators. The Corporation anticipates that its current capital resources will satisfy its capital requirements for the foreseeable future. The Corporation may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support continued growth, whether such growth occurs internally or through acquisitions. The Corporation’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Corporation’s control, and on the Corporation’s financial performance. Accordingly, there can be no assurance of the Corporation’s ability to expand its operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. As such, the Corporation may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than desired or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. In the event current sources of liquidity, including internal sources, do not satisfy the Corporation’s needs, the Corporation would be required to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, the Corporation’s credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of the Corporation’s long- or short-term financial prospects if the Corporation incurs large credit losses or if the level of business activity decreases due to economic conditions. 18 Table of Contents The actions of the U.S. Government for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, may not achieve the intended effect, and the Corporation’s results of operations could be adversely affected. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the U.S. Congress enacted the EESA. The EESA provides the UST with the authority to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages. As part of the EESA, the UST has developed a CPP to purchase up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock from qualifying financial institutions. The CPP was designed to strengthen the capital and liquidity positions of viable institutions and to encourage banks and thrifts to increase lending to creditworthy borrowers. The EESA also increased the insurance coverage of deposit accounts to $250,000 per depositor. In a related action, the FDIC established a TLGP under which the FDIC provides a guarantee for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts at eligible insured institutions. For non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts, a 10 basis point annual rate surcharge will be applied to deposit amounts in excess of $250,000. Although the Corporation was a participant in the CPP in 2009, the Corporation redeemed all of the preferred shares issued to the UST on September 9, 2009 and therefore is no longer a participant in the CPP. The Corporation has opted to participate in the TLGP. The U.S. Congress or federal banking regulatory agencies could adopt additional regulatory requirements or restrictions in response to the threats to the financial system and such changes may adversely affect the operations of the Corporation and FNBPA. The Corporation’s status as a holding company makes it dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations and pay dividends to stockholders. The Corporation is a holding company and conducts almost all of its operations through its subsidiaries. The Corporation does not have any significant assets other than cash and the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Corporation depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends to stockholders. The Corporation’s right to participate in any distribution of earnings or assets of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of creditors of such subsidiaries. Under federal law, FNBPA is limited in the amount of dividends it may pay to the Corporation without prior regulatory approval. Also, bank regulators have the authority to prohibit FNBPA from paying dividends if the bank regulators determine FNBPA is in an unsound or unsafe condition or that the payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. The Corporation’s results of operations may be adversely affected if asset valuations cause other-than-temporary impairment or goodwill impairment charges. The Corporation may be required to record future impairment charges on its investment securities if they suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on the Corporation’s investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of FNBPA to pay dividends to the Corporation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s liquidity and its ability to pay dividends to stockholders and could also negatively impact its regulatory capital ratios and result in FNBPA not being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. 19 Table of Contents The Corporation could be adversely affected by changes in the law, especially changes in the regulation of the banking industry. The Corporation and its subsidiaries operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by several governmental agencies, including the FRB, OCC and FDIC. Regulations are generally intended to provide protection for depositors, borrowers and other customers rather than for investors. The Corporation is subject to changes in federal and state law, regulations, governmental policies, tax laws and accounting principles. Changes in regulations or the regulatory environment could adversely affect the banking and financial services industry as a whole and could limit the Corporation’s growth and the return to investors by restricting such activities as: • the payment of dividends; • mergers with or acquisitions of other institutions; • investments; • loans and interest rates; • fees assessed for consumer deposit accounts; • the provision of securities, insurance or trust services; and • the types of non-deposit activities in which the Corporation’s financial institution subsidiaries may engage. Adverse economic conditions in the Corporation’s market area may adversely impact its results of operations and financial condition. The substantial portion of the Corporation’s business is concentrated in western and central Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio, which over recent years has been a slower growth market than other areas of the United States. As a result, FNBPA’s loan portfolio and results of operations may be adversely affected by factors that have a significant impact on the economic conditions in this market area. The local economies of this market area have historically been less robust than the economy of the nation as a whole and may not be subject to the same fluctuations as the national economy. Adverse economic conditions in this market area, including the loss of certain significant employers, could reduce its growth rate, affect its borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and generally affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, a downturn in real estate values in FNBPA’s market area could cause many of its loans to become inadequately collateralized. The Corporation’s deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher in the future which would have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured financial institutions, including FNBPA. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC would pay all deposits of a failed bank up to the insured amount from the Deposit Insurance Fund. In December 2008, the FDIC adopted a rule that would increase premiums paid by insured institutions and make other changes to the assessment system. In December 2009, the FDIC required banks to pay their fourth quarter 2009 premiums plus prepay all of the 2010, 2011 and 2012 insurance premiums. On December 30, 2009, FNBPA prepaid $39.6 million in FDIC insurance premiums. Further increases and additional premium assessments in deposit insurance premiums could adversely affect the Corporation’s net income in the future. The Corporation’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Corporation relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Corporation’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. Although the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of these information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not 20 Table of Contents occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Corporation’s information systems could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Certain provisions of the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and Florida law may discourage takeovers. The Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage or may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Corporation’s Board of Directors. In particular, the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws: • currently classify its Board of Directors into three classes, so that stockholders elect only one-third of its Board of Directors each year (provided, however, that this classified structure will be phased out by 2011); • permit stockholders to remove directors only for cause; • do not permit stockholders to take action except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders; • require stockholders to give the Corporation advance notice to nominate candidates for election to its Board of Directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting; • permit the Corporation’s Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval unless otherwise required by law, preferred stock with such terms as its Board of Directors may determine; • require the vote of the holders of at least 75% of the Corporation’s voting shares for stockholder amendments to its By-laws; Under Florida law, the approval of a business combination with a stockholder owning 10% or more of the voting shares of a corporation requires the vote of holders of at least two-thirds of the voting shares not owned by such stockholder, unless the transaction is approved by a majority of the corporation’s disinterested directors. In addition, Florida law generally provides that shares of a corporation that are acquired in excess of certain specified thresholds will not possess any voting rights unless the voting rights are approved by a majority of the corporation’s disinterested stockholders. These provisions of the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and of Florida law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, even though a majority of the Corporation’s stockholders may consider such proposals desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace members of the Corporation’s Board of Directors. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for stockholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market price of the Corporation’s common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock that could result from takeover attempts. The Corporation is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. Portions of the Corporation’s loan portfolio are secured by real property. In the course of its business, the Corporation may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Corporation may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, the Corporation may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If the Corporation ever becomes subject to significant environmental liabilities, the Corporation’s business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents The Corporation’s key assets include its brand and reputation and the Corporation’s business may be affected by how it is perceived in the market place. The Corporation’s brand and its attributes are key assets of the Corporation. The Corporation’s ability to attract and retain banking, insurance, consumer finance, wealth management, merchant banking and corporate clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of its level of service, trustworthiness, business practices and financial condition. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage the Corporation’s representation among existing customers and corporate clients, which could make it difficult for the Corporation to attract new clients and maintain existing ones. Adverse developments with respect to the financial services industry may also, by association, negatively impact the Corporation’s representation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against the Corporation. Although the Corporation monitors developments for areas of potential risk to its representation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s revenues and profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE. 