Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion of risks relating to our operations should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business, our prospects and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements contained in this annual report are made. Our results are subject to risks relating to competition and narrow profit margins in the food retail industry, which could adversely affect net income and cash generated from operations. The food retail industry is competitive and generally characterized by narrow profit margins. Our competitors include international, national, regional and local supermarket chains, supercenters, independent grocery stores, specialty food stores, warehouse club stores, retail drug chains, convenience stores, membership clubs, general merchandisers and discount retailers. Food retail chains generally compete on the basis of location, quality of products, service, price, product variety and store condition. We believe that we could face increased competition in the future from all of these competitors. To the extent we reduce prices to maintain or grow our market share in the face of competition, net income and cash generated from operations could be adversely affected. Some of our competitors have financial, distribution, purchasing and marketing resources that are greater than ours. Our profitability could be impacted by the pricing, purchasing, financing, advertising or promotional decisions made by competitors. We have substantial financial debt outstanding that could negatively impact our business. We have substantial debt outstanding. As of December 30, 2006, we had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $3.2 billion, including total capital lease and lease finance obligations of approximately $0.8 billion. Our level of debt could: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, including making interest payments; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to operate our business; • limit our financial flexibility in planning for and reacting, to industry changes; • place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to less leveraged companies; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates; and • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our debt, reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes. We may borrow additional funds to fund our capital expenditures and working capital needs and to finance future acquisitions. The incurrence of additional debt could make it more likely that we will experience some or all of the risks described above. 5 Table of Contents A competitive labor market may increase our costs, resulting in a decrease in our profits or an increase in our losses. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all areas of our business. We compete with other businesses in our markets in attracting and retaining employees. Tight labor markets, increased overtime, government mandated increases in the minimum wage and a higher proportion of full-time employees could result in an increase in labor costs, which could materially impact our results of operation. A shortage of qualified employees may require us to increase our wage and benefit offerings in order to compete effectively in the hiring and retention of qualified employees or to retain more expensive temporary employees. Increased labor costs could increase our costs, resulting in a decrease in our profits or an increase in our losses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully absorb any increased labor costs through our efforts to increase efficiencies in other areas of our operations. Because of the number of properties that we own and lease, we face a potential risk of environmental liability. We are subject to laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities and operations that may have adverse environmental effects and impose liabilities for the costs of cleaning up, and certain damages arising from, sites of past spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous materials. Under applicable environmental laws, we may be responsible for the remediation of environmental conditions and may be subject to associated liabilities relating to our stores and the land on which our stores, warehouses and offices are situated, regardless of whether we lease, sublease or own the stores, warehouses or land in question and regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or by a prior owner or tenant. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of environmental conditions may be substantial. Certain environmental laws also impose liability in connection with the handling of, or exposure to, asbestos-containing materials, pursuant to which third parties may seek recovery from owners, tenants or sub-tenants of real properties for personal injuries associated with asbestos-containing materials. There can be no assurance that environmental conditions relating to prior, existing or future store sites will not harm us through, for instance, business interruption, cost of remediation or harm to reputation. If we are unable to locate appropriate real estate or enter into real estate leases on commercially acceptable terms, we may be unable to open new stores. Our ability to open new stores is dependent on identifying and entering into leases on commercially reasonable terms for properties that are suitable for our needs. If we fail to identify and enter into leases on a timely basis for any reason, including our inability due to competition from other companies seeking similar sites, our growth may be impaired because we may be unable to open new stores as anticipated. Similarly, our business may be harmed if we are unable to renew the leases on our existing stores on commercially acceptable terms. Various aspects of our business are subject to federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations, in addition to environmental regulations. Our compliance with these laws and regulations may require additional expenses or capital expenditures and could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as planned. In addition to environmental regulations, we are subject to federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations relating to, among other things, zoning, land use, employee health and benefits, work place safety, public health, community right-to-know, alcoholic beverage sales and pharmaceutical sales. A number of jurisdictions regulate the licensing of supermarkets, including retail alcoholic beverage license grants. In addition, under certain regulations, we are prohibited from selling alcoholic beverages in certain of our stores. Employers are also subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, disabled access and work permit requirements. Compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our supermarkets and could otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operation. A number of laws exist which impose burdens or restrictions on owners with respect to access by disabled persons. Our compliance with these laws may result in modifications to our properties, or prevent us from performing certain further renovations. 6 Table of Contents There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, which may adversely impact our business and operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations. As a result of selling food products, we face the risk of exposure to product liability claims and adverse publicity. The packaging, marketing, distribution and sale of food products purchased from others entail an inherent risk of product liability, product recall and resultant adverse publicity. Such products may contain contaminants that we may inadvertently redistribute. These contaminants may, in certain cases, result in illness, injury or death if processing at the foodservice or consumer level does not eliminate the contaminants. Even an inadvertent shipment of adulterated products may violate the law and may lead to an increased risk of exposure to product liability claims. There can be no assurance that such claims will not be asserted against us or that we will not be obligated to perform such a recall in the future. If a product liability claim is successful, our insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur, and we may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance, or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. If we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability claims relating to defective products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully market our products and on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could have a material adverse effect on our reputation with existing and potential customers and on our business and financial condition and results of operation. We may suffer disruptions in our business caused by labor unrest by our employees or employees of companies in our supply chain. We are subject to labor relations issues, including union organizing activities, that could result in an increase in costs or lead to a strike, work stoppage or slowdown. We are also subject to labor relations issues affecting entities in our supply chain, including both suppliers and those involved in transportation and shipping. Our renovation and conversion plans may not be successful, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. A key to our business strategy has been, and will continue to be, the renovation and/or conversion of our existing stores, as well as the renovation of our infrastructure. Although it is expected that cash flows generated from operations, supplemented by the unused borrowing capacity under our credit facilities and the availability of capital lease financing, will be sufficient to fund our capital renovation programs and conversion initiatives, sufficient funds may not be available. Our inability to successfully renovate and /or convert our existing stores and renovate other infrastructure could adversely affect our business, our results of operation and our ability to compete successfully. We may be unsuccessful in managing the growth of our business or the integration of acquisitions we have made. As part of our long-term strategy, we continue to reinforce our presence in the geographic locations where we currently operate and in adjacent regions by pursuing acquisition opportunities in the retail grocery store industry. 7 Table of Contents In doing so, we face risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisition. These risks include, but are not limited to, incurring significantly higher than anticipated financing related risks and operating expenses, failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of acquired businesses, failing to install and integrate all necessary systems and controls, loss of customers, entering markets in which we have no or limited experience, disruption of our ongoing business and dissipation of our management resources. Realization of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may take several years or may not occur at all. Our acquisition strategy may place a significant strain on our management, operational, financial and other resources. The success of our acquisition strategy will depend on many factors, including our ability to: • identify suitable acquisition opportunities; • successfully complete acquisitions at valuations that will provide anticipated returns on invested capital; • quickly and effectively integrate acquired operations in order to realize operating synergies; • obtain necessary financing on satisfactory terms; and • make the payments on the indebtedness that we might incur as a result of these acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to execute successfully our acquisition strategy, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Although we are not currently a party to any agreement with respect to any pending acquisition that we believe is probable and material to our business, we have engaged in and continue to engage in evaluations and discussions with respect to potential acquisitions. A shortage or significant increase in the cost of electricity, diesel fuel or gasoline could disrupt distribution activities and negatively impact our business and results of operation. Our operations require and are dependent upon the continued availability of substantial amounts of electricity, diesel fuel and gasoline to manufacture, store and transport products. Our trucking operations are extensive and diesel fuel storage capacity generally represents approximately one week average usage. The prices of electricity, diesel fuel and gasoline fluctuate significantly over time. Given the competitive nature of the grocery industry, we may not be able to pass on increased costs of production, storage and transportation to customers. As a result, either a shortage or significant increase in the cost of electricity, diesel fuel or gasoline could disrupt distribution activities and negatively impact our business and results of operation. The geographic concentration of our stores on the east coast of the United States makes us vulnerable to economic downturns, natural disasters and other catastrophic events that may impact that region. Substantially all of our stores are located on the east coast of the United States. Consequently, our operations depend significantly upon the economic and other conditions in this area, in addition to those that may affect the United States or the world as a whole. If the east coast of the United States were to experience a general economic downturn, natural disaster or other adverse condition, our results of operation of Delhaize America may suffer. Adverse weather conditions on the east coast of the United States could increase the cost our suppliers charge for their products, decrease or increase customer demand for certain products, interrupt operations at affected stores or interrupt the operations of our suppliers. A change in supplier rebates could adversely affect our results. We receive allowances, credits and income from suppliers primarily for volume incentives, new product introductions, in-store promotions and co-operative advertising. Certain of these funds are based on our volume of net sales or purchases, growth rate of net sales or purchases and marketing programs. If we do not grow our net sales over prior periods or if we are not in compliance with the terms of these programs, there could be a material negative effect on the amount of incentives offered or paid to us by our suppliers. 8 Table of Contents Additionally, suppliers routinely change the requirements for, and the amount of, funds available. No assurance can be given that we will continue to receive such incentives or that we will be able to collect outstanding amounts relating to these incentives in a timely manner, or at all. A reduction in, the discontinuance of, or a significant delay in receiving such incentives, as well as the inability to collect such incentives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Unexpected outcomes in our legal proceedings could materially impact our results. From time to time, we are party to legal proceedings including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, intellectual property and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We have estimated our exposure to the claims and litigation arising in the normal course of business and believe we have made adequate provisions for such exposure. Unexpected outcomes in these matters could result in an adverse effect on our financial statements. The effect of pending state and federal tax audits on our business can not be determined. We continue to experience both federal and state audits of our income tax filings, which we consider to be part of our ongoing business activity. While the ultimate outcome of these federal and state audits is not certain, we have considered the merits of our filing positions in our overall evaluation of potential tax liabilities and believe we have adequate liabilities recorded in our consolidated financial statements for potential exposures on these matters. Unexpected outcomes in audit could result in an adverse effect on our financial statements. We may experience adverse results arising from claims against our self-insurance programs. We are self-insured for workers’ compensation, general liability, vehicle accident and druggist claims. Maximum retention, including defense costs per occurrence, is (i) from $0.5 million to $1.0 million per accident for workers’ compensation, (ii) $5.0 million per accident for automobile liability and (iii) $3.0 million per accident for general liability, with an additional $2.0 million retention in excess of the primary $3.0 million general liability retention for druggist liability. We are insured for costs related to covered claims, including defense costs, in excess of these retentions. Pursuant to our self-insurance program, self-insured reserves related to workers’ compensation, general liability and automobile coverage are reinsured by Pride Reinsurance Company (“Pride”), an Irish reinsurance captive owned by a company affiliated with us. Premiums are transferred annually to Pride through Delhaize Insurance Co., a subsidiary of our company. Additionally, our property insurance includes self-insured retentions per occurrence of (i) $15.0 million for named windstorms, (ii) $5.0 million for Zone A flood losses and (iii) $2.5 million for all other losses. We also are self-insured for health care, which includes medical, pharmacy, dental and short-term disability. Our self-insurance liability for claims incurred but not yet reported is estimated quarterly by management based on available information and takes into consideration actuarial evaluations determined annually based on historical claims experience, claims processing procedures and medical cost trends. It is possible that the final resolution of some of the claims against these self-insurance programs may require us to make significant expenditures in excess of our existing reserves over an extended period of time and for a range of amounts that cannot be reasonably estimated. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 