ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued) use of securitization and other sources of liquidity. Over time, and particularly in the event of any further credit rating downgrades or a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers, Ford Credit may need to reduce the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount of purchased receivables would significantly reduce ongoing profits and could adversely affect Ford Credit's ability to support the sale of Ford vehicles. For additional discussion, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources." Higher-than-expected credit losses. Credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. Credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability and used car prices) has a significant impact on Ford Credit's business. The level of credit losses Ford Credit may experience could exceed its expectations. For additional discussion regarding credit losses, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates." Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles. No single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. Some of Ford Credit's bank competitors in the United States have developed credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through a single standard system, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance sources. This process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. In addition, Ford Credit is facing increased competition from banks on wholesale financing for Ford dealers. Competition from such competitors may increase, which could adversely affect Ford Credit's profitability and the volume of its business. Changes in interest rates. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk, and the particular market to which it is most exposed is U.S. dollar LIBOR. Ford Credit's interest rate risk exposure results principally from "re-pricing risk,'' or differences in the re-pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. Any inability to adequately control this exposure could adversely affect its business. For additional discussion of interest rate risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases. After Ford Credit purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers and other customers, it manages or services the receivables. Any disruption of its servicing activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain customer account records or otherwise, could have a significant negative impact on its ability to collect on those receivables and/or satisfy its customers. Lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. Ford Credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from Ford) of the vehicles it leases. Actual proceeds realized by Ford Credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease transaction. Among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and the quality or perceived quality, safety or reliability of the vehicles. All of these, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect Ford Credit's profitability. For additional discussion regarding residual value, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates." New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. As a finance company, Ford Credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates. In the United States, its operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the federal Truth-in-Lending Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Credit Reporting Act. In some countries outside the United States, Ford Credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. In many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. Efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on Ford Credit, and affect the conduct of its business. Additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair its profitability. Inability to implement the Way Forward plan. We believe that our ability to implement the Way Forward plan is very important to our future success. Any of the above or other factors that prevent us from executing the Way Forward plan ultimately could have a substantially adverse impact on our business. For additional discussion of the Way Forward plan, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview." 20 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved SEC staff comments to report. ITEM 