ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued) Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles. No single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. Most of Ford Credit's bank competitors in the United States use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance sources. This process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. In addition, Ford Credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for Ford dealers. Competition from such competitors with lower borrowing costs may increase, which could adversely affect Ford Credit's profitability and the volume of its business. Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases. After Ford Credit purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers and other customers, it manages or services the receivables. Any disruption of its servicing activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain customer account records or otherwise, could have a significant negative impact on its ability to collect on those receivables and/or satisfy its customers. Lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. Ford Credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from Ford) and return volumes of the vehicles it leases. Actual proceeds realized by Ford Credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease transaction. Among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and the quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. Actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. All of these factors, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect Ford Credit's profitability. For additional discussion of residual values, see the "Critical Accounting Estimates" disclosures in Item 7. New or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. As a finance company, Ford Credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates. In the United States, its operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the federal Truth-in-Lending Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and Fair Credit Reporting Act. In some countries outside the United States, Ford Credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. In many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. Efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on Ford Credit, and affect the conduct of its business. Additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair its profitability. Inability to implement our One Ford plan. As discussed in the "Overview" section in Item 7, we are taking actions to execute the four priorities of our One Ford plan and address the impact of current economic conditions, including the deteriorated credit market and automotive sales. To the extent that we are unable to implement necessary actions to execute our plan, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None to report. 30 ITEM 