Item 1A. Risk Factors We are Subject to Risks Associated with Investments in Real Estate The value of, and our income from, our properties may decline due to developments that adversely affect real estate generally and those that are specific to our properties. General factors that may adversely affect our real estate portfolios include: • Increases in interest rates; • The continued tightening of the availability of credit; • A decline in the economic conditions at the national, regional or local levels, particularly a decline in one or more of our primary markets; • An increase in competition for tenants and customers or a decrease in demand by tenants and customers; 4 Table of Contents • An increase in supply of our property types in our primary markets; • A continuation of terrorist activities or other acts of violence or war in the United States of America or abroad or the occurrence of such activities or acts that impact properties in our real estate portfolios or that may impact the general economy; • Continuation or escalation of tensions in the Middle East; • Declines in consumer spending during an economic recession that adversely affect our revenue from our retail centers; • Further declines in housing markets that adversely affect our revenue from our land segment; and • The adoption on the national, state or local level of more restrictive laws and governmental regulations, including more restrictive zoning, land use or environmental regulations and increased real estate taxes. If any of the foregoing risks were to occur or continue, our business could be adversely impacted. There is a particular concern for the real estate industry with a continued deterioration of the economic conditions that the nation has recently experienced. There have been significant declines in housing markets across the United States, widespread problems in the sub-prime mortgage industry and a significant tightening of the credit markets, all of which have had a negative impact on the national economy, affecting consumer confidence and spending. There is considerable debate whether the United States economy is headed for, or already in, a recession. If this downturn in the national economy were to continue, or worsen, the value of our properties, as well as the income we receive from our properties could be adversely affected. In addition, there are factors that may adversely affect the value of, and our income from, specific properties, including: • Adverse changes in the perceptions of prospective tenants or purchasers of the attractiveness of the property; • Opposition from local community or political groups with respect to development, construction or operations at a particular site; • Our inability to provide adequate management and maintenance; • The investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials or toxic substances at a site; • Our inability to collect rent or other receivables; • An increase in operating costs; • Introduction of a competitor’s property in or in close proximity to one of our current markets; • Underinsured or uninsured natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods or hurricanes; and • Our inability to obtain adequate insurance. The occurrence of one or more of the above risks could result in significant delays or unexpected expenses. If any of these occur, we may not achieve our projected returns on our properties and we could lose some or all of our investments in those properties. We are Subject to Real Estate Development Risks In addition to the risks described above, which could also potentially impact development projects, our development projects are subject to significant risks relating to our ability to complete our projects on time and on budget. Factors that may result in a development project exceeding budget or being prevented from completion include: • An inability to secure sufficient financing on favorable terms, including an inability to refinance construction loans; • Construction delays or cost overruns, either of which may increase project development costs; • An increase in commodity costs; • An inability to obtain zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • An inability to secure tenants or anchors necessary to support the project; 5 Table of Contents • Failure to achieve or sustain anticipated occupancy or sales levels; and • Threatened or pending litigation. If any of these occur, we may not achieve our projected returns on properties under development and we could lose some or all of our investments in those properties. In addition, the lead time required to develop, construct and lease-up a development property has increased substantially, which could adversely impact our projected returns or result in a termination of the development project. In the past, we have elected not to proceed, or have been prevented from proceeding, with specific development projects, and we anticipate that this may occur again from time to time in the future. A development project may be delayed or terminated because a project partner or prospective anchor withdraws or a third party challenges our entitlements or public financing. We periodically serve as either the construction manager or the general contractor for our development projects. The construction of real estate projects entails unique risks, including risks that the project will fail to conform to building plans, specifications and timetables. These failures could be caused by labor strikes, weather, government regulations and other conditions beyond our control. In addition, we may become liable for injuries and accidents occurring during the construction process that are not insured. In the construction of new projects, we generally guarantee the lender of the construction loan the lien-free completion of the project. This guaranty is recourse to us and places the risk of construction delays and cost overruns on us. In addition, from time to time, we guarantee our construction obligations to a major tenant. These types of guarantees are released upon completion of the project, as defined. We may have significant expenditures in the future in order to comply with our lien-free completion obligations. Examples of projects that face these and other development risks include the following: • Brooklyn Atlantic Yards. We are in the process of developing Brooklyn Atlantic Yards, a long-term $4.0 billion mixed-use project in downtown Brooklyn expected to feature an 850,000 square foot sports and entertainment arena for the Nets basketball team, a franchise of the NBA. The acquisition and development of Brooklyn Atlantic Yards has been formally approved by the required state governmental authorities but final documentation of the transactions are subject to the completion of negotiations with local and state governmental authorities, including negotiation of the applicable development documentation and public subsidies. Condemnation of some of the land has commenced for the potential removal, remediation or other activities to address environmental contamination at, on, under or emanating to or from the land. There are also various lawsuits filed challenging the approval process and use of eminent domain which may not be resolved in our favor resulting in Brooklyn Atlantic Yards not being developed with the features we anticipate. There is also the potential for increased costs and delays to the project as a result of (i) increasing construction costs, (ii) scarcity of labor and supplies, (iii) our inability to obtain tax-exempt financing or the availability of financing or public subsidies, (iv) increasing rates for financings, and (v) other potential litigation seeking to enjoin or prevent the project for which there may not be insurance coverage. The development of Brooklyn Atlantic Yards is being done in connection with the proposed move of the Nets to the planned arena. The arena itself (and its plans) along with any movement of the team is subject to approval by the NBA, which we may not receive. If any of the foregoing risks were to occur, we may not be able to develop Brooklyn Atlantic Yards to the extent intended or at all. Even if we are able to continue with the development, we would likely not be able to do so as quickly as originally planned. • Military Family Housing. We have formed various partnerships, primarily with the United States Department of the Navy, to engage in the ownership, redevelopment and operation of United States Navy and United States Marine Corps military family housing communities. We have also formed a joint venture partnership to redevelop and operate, under a ground lease, United States Air Force military family communities. These military family communities, comprising approximately 11,000 housing units, are located primarily on the islands of Oahu and Kauai, Hawaii; Chicago, Illinois; Seattle, Washington; and Colorado Springs, Colorado. The number of military personnel stationed in these areas could be affected by future Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission decisions. In addition, our partnerships are at risk that future federal appropriations for Basic Allowance for Housing (“BAH”) and local market adjustments to BAH do not keep pace with increases in property taxes, utilities and other operating expenses for the partnerships. We are also subject to the risk of competition from other local housing options available to the military personnel. We have limited experience in projects of this type, and we cannot assure you we will be able to complete them successfully. • For-Sale Condominiums. We are engaged in the development of condominiums in selected markets. Current condominium projects include 1100 Wilshire and Mercury, both previously unfinished office buildings in Los Angeles, California, and Central Station in Chicago, Illinois. While we have previously developed for-sale condominium projects with partners, we are developing some of these projects during a housing downturn without the development assistance of one or more partners. We may not be able to sell the units at the projected sales prices for a number of reasons, 6 Table of Contents including, without limitation, a rise in interest rates, continued softening of the housing market and the inability of prospective buyers to secure financing. An Economic Decline in One or More of Our Primary Markets May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Cash Flows Our core markets include the New York City/Philadelphia metropolitan area, Denver, Boston, the Greater Washington D.C./Baltimore metropolitan area, Chicago and the state of California. We also have a concentration of real estate assets in Cleveland, Ohio. A downturn in any of these markets may impair or continue to impair: • The ability of our tenants to make lease payments; • Our ability to successfully market new developments to prospective purchasers and tenants; • Our rental and lease rates; • Hotel occupancy and room rates; • Land sales; and • Occupancy rates for commercial and residential properties. Adverse economic conditions may negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, local real estate market conditions have been, and may continue to be, significantly impacted by one or more of the following events: • Business layoffs and downsizing; • Industry slowdowns; • Relocations or closings of businesses; • Changing demographics; and • Any oversupply of or reduced demand for real estate. Vacancies in Our Properties May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Cash Flows Our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to continue leasing a significant portion of our commercial and residential real estate portfolio. We depend on commercial and residential tenants in order to collect rents and other charges. The current economic downturn has impacted our tenants on many levels. The downturn has been particularly hard on commercial tenants, many of whom have announced store closings and scaled backed growth plans. If we are unable to sustain historical occupancy levels in our real estate portfolio, our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to sustain our current and historical occupancy levels also depends on many other factors that are discussed elsewhere in this section. A Downturn in the Housing Market May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Cash Flows The United States has experienced a dramatic downturn in the residential real estate markets resulting in a decline in both the demand for, and price of, housing. We depend on homebuilders and condominium builders and buyers, which have been significantly and adversely impacted by the housing downturn, to continue buying our land held for sale. We do not know how long the downturn in the housing market will last or if we will ever see a return to previous conditions, but our ability to sustain our historical sales levels of land depends in part on the strength of the housing market and will continue to suffer until conditions improve. Our failure to successfully sell our land held for sale on favorable terms would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows and could result in a write-down in the value of our land due to impairment. Our Properties and Businesses Face Significant Competition The real estate industry is highly competitive in many of the markets in which we operate. Competition could over-saturate any market, as a result of which we may not have sufficient cash to meet the nonrecourse debt service requirements on certain of our properties. Although we may attempt to negotiate a restructuring with the mortgagee, we may not be successful, which could cause a property to be transferred to the mortgagee. 7 Table of Contents There are numerous other developers, managers and owners of commercial and residential real estate and undeveloped land that compete with us nationally, regionally and/or locally, some of whom have greater financial resources than us. They compete with us for management and leasing opportunities, land for development, properties for acquisition and disposition, and for anchor department stores and tenants for properties. We may not be able to successfully compete in these areas. Tenants at our retail properties face continual competition in attracting customers from retailers at other shopping centers, catalogue companies, online merchants, warehouse stores, large discounters, outlet malls, wholesale clubs, direct mail and telemarketers. Our competitors and those of our tenants could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space in our properties and on the rents we can charge or the concessions we can grant. This in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, and could affect the realizable value of our assets upon sale. We May Be Unable to Sell Properties to Avoid Losses or to Reposition Our Portfolio Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may be unable to dispose of underperforming properties and may be unable to reposition our portfolio in response to changes in regional or local real estate markets. As a result, we may incur operating losses from some of our properties and may have to write-down the value of some properties due to impairment. Our Results of Operations and Cash Flows May Be Adversely Affected by Tenant Defaults or the Closing or Bankruptcy of Non-Tenant Anchors Our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants are unable to meet their obligations or do not renew their leases, or if we are unable to lease a significant amount of space on economically favorable terms. In the event of a default by a tenant, we may experience delays in payments and incur substantial costs in recovering our losses. Our ability to collect rents and other charges will be even more difficult if the tenant is bankrupt or insolvent. Our tenants have from time to time filed for bankruptcy or been involved in insolvency proceedings and others may in the future, which could make it more difficult to enforce our rights as lessor and protect our investment. Based on tenants with net base rent of greater than 2% of total net base rent as of January 31, 2008, our five largest office tenants by leased square feet were the City of New York, Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc., the U.S. Government, Morgan Stanley & Co. and Securities Industry Automation Corp. and Bear Stearns is our tenth largest tenant. Based on tenants with net base rent of greater than 1% of total net base rent as of January 31, 2008, our five largest retail tenants by leased square feet were Bass Pro Shops, Inc., AMC Entertainment Inc., Regal Entertainment Group, The Gap and TJX Companies. Current bankruptcies of some of our tenants and the potential bankruptcies of other tenants in the future could make it difficult for us to enforce our rights as lessor and protect our investment. With respect to our retail centers, we also could be adversely affected if one or more non-tenant anchors were to close or enter into bankruptcy. Although non-tenant anchors generally do not pay us rent, they typically contribute towards common area maintenance and other expenses. The loss of these revenues could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Further, the temporary or permanent loss of an anchor likely would reduce customer traffic in the retail center, which could reduce the percentage of rent paid by retail center tenants or cause retail center tenants to close or to enter into bankruptcy. Rents obtained from other tenants may be adversely impacted. One or more of these factors could cause the retail center to fail to meet its debt service requirements. We May Be Negatively Impacted by Department Store Consolidations Department store consolidations may result in the closure of existing department stores. With respect to existing department stores, we may be unable to re-lease this area or to re-lease it on comparable terms. Additionally, department store closures could result in decreased customer traffic, which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. Rents obtained from other tenants may also be adversely impacted as a result of co-tenancy clauses in their leases. Consolidations may also negatively affect current and future development and redevelopment projects. We May Be Negatively Impacted by International Activities While our international activities are currently limited in scope and generally focused on evaluating various international opportunities, we may expand our international efforts subjecting us to risks that could have an adverse effect on the projected returns on the international projects or our overall results of operations. We have limited experience in dealing with foreign economies or cultures, changes in political environments or changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies. In addition, international activities would subject us to a wide variety of local laws and regulations governing these foreign properties with which we have no prior experience. We may experience difficulties in managing international properties, including the ability to successfully integrate these properties into our business operations and the ambiguities that arise when dealing with foreign cultures. Each of these factors may adversely affect our projected returns on foreign investments, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Terrorist Attacks and Other Armed Conflicts May Adversely Affect Our Business We have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including New York City/Philadelphia, Boston, Washington D.C./Baltimore, Denver, Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco, which face a heightened risk related to terrorism. Some tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States of America that are not as likely to be targets of terrorist activity. This could result in a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. In addition, properties in our real estate portfolio could be directly impacted by future terrorist attacks which could cause the value of our property and the level of our revenues to significantly decline. Future terrorist activity, related armed conflicts or prolonged or increased tensions in the Middle East could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease and adversely affect mall traffic. Additionally, future terrorist attacks could increase volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our revenues, costs and operating results. We Have Limited Experience Participating in the Operation and Management of a Professional Basketball Team, and Future Losses Are Expected for the Nets On August 16, 2004, we purchased a legal ownership interest in the Nets. This interest is reported on the equity method of accounting and as a separate segment. The purchase of the interest in the Nets was the first step in our efforts to pursue development projects at Brooklyn Atlantic Yards, which are expected to include a new entertainment arena complex and adjacent developments combining housing, offices, shops and public open space. The relocation of the Nets is, among other items, subject to various approvals by the NBA, and we cannot assure you we will receive these approvals on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to or delayed in moving the Nets to Brooklyn, we may be unable to achieve our projected returns on the related development projects, which could result in a delay in the return of, termination of, or losses on our investment. The Nets are currently operating at a loss and are projected to continue to operate at a loss at least as long as they remain in New Jersey. Such operating losses will need to be funded by the contribution of equity. Even if we are able to relocate the Nets to Brooklyn, there can be no assurance that the Nets will be profitable in the future. Losses are allocated to each member of the limited liability company that owns the Nets based on an analysis of the respective member’s claim on the net book equity assuming a liquidation at book value at the end of each accounting period without regard to unrealized appreciation (if any) in the fair value of the Nets. Therefore, losses allocated to us may exceed our legal ownership interest and may be significant. The Operation of a Professional Sports Franchise Involves Certain Risks Our investment in the Nets is subject to a number of operational risks, including risks associated with operating conditions, competitive factors, economic conditions and industry conditions. If we are not able to successfully manage the following operational risks, we may incur additional operating losses, which are allocated to each member based on an analysis of the respective members’ claim on the net book equity assuming a liquidation at book value at the end of the accounting period without regard to unrealized appreciation (if any) in the fair value of the Nets: • Competition with other major league sports, college athletics and other sports-related and non sports-related entertainment; • Dependence on competitive success of the Nets; • Fluctuations in the amount of revenues from advertising, sponsorships, concessions, merchandise, parking and season and other ticket sales, which are tied to the popularity and success of the Nets; • Uncertainties of increases in players’ salaries; • Dependence on talented players; • Risk of injuries to key players; • Risk of labor actions or work stoppages by the players’ union; and • Dependence on television and cable network, radio and other media contracts. 9 Table of Contents We Are Controlled by the Ratner, Miller and Shafran Families, Whose Interests May Differ from Those of Other Shareholders Our authorized common stock consists of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The economic rights of each Class of common stock are identical, but the voting rights differ. The Class A common stock, voting as a separate Class, is entitled to elect 25% of the members of our board of directors, while the Class B common stock, voting as a separate Class, is entitled to elect the remaining 75% of our board of directors. On all other matters, the Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote together as a single Class, with each share of our Class A common stock entitled to one vote per share and each share of Class B common stock entitled to ten votes per share. At March 1, 2008, members of the Ratner, Miller and Shafran families, which include members of our current board of directors and executive officers, owned 77.9% of the Class B common stock. RMS, Limited Partnership (“RMS LP”), which owned 77.5% of the Class B common stock, is a limited partnership, comprised of interests of these families, with eight individual general partners, currently consisting of: • Samuel H. Miller, Treasurer of Forest City and Co-Chairman of our Board of Directors; • Charles A. Ratner, President and Chief Executive Officer of Forest City and a Director; • Ronald A. Ratner, Executive Vice President of Forest City and a Director; • Brian J. Ratner, Executive Vice President of Forest City and a Director; • Deborah Ratner Salzberg, President of Forest City Washington, Inc., a subsidiary of Forest City, and a Director; • Joan K. Shafran, a Director; • Joseph Shafran; and • Abraham Miller. Joan K. Shafran is the sister of Joseph Shafran. Charles A. Ratner, James A. Ratner, Executive Vice President of Forest City and a Director, and Ronald A. Ratner are brothers. Albert B. Ratner, Co-Chairman of our Board of Directors, is the father of Brian J. Ratner and Deborah Ratner Salzberg and is first cousin to Charles A. Ratner, James A. Ratner, Ronald A. Ratner, Joan K. Shafran, Joseph Shafran and Bruce C. Ratner, Executive Vice President of Forest City and a Director. Samuel H. Miller was married to Ruth Ratner Miller (now deceased), a sister of Albert B. Ratner, and is the father of Abraham Miller. General partners holding 60% of the total voting power of RMS LP determine how to vote the Class B common stock held by RMS LP. No person may transfer his or her interest in the Class B common stock held by RMS LP without complying with various rights of first refusal. In addition, at March 1, 2008, members of these families collectively owned 14.9% of the Class A common stock. As a result of their ownership in Forest City, these family members and RMS LP have the ability to elect a majority of our board of directors and to control the management and policies of Forest City. Generally, they may also determine, without the consent of our other shareholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and prevent or cause a change in control of Forest City. Even if these families or RMS LP reduce their level of ownership of Class B common stock below the level necessary to maintain a majority of the voting power, specific provisions of Ohio law and our Amended Articles of Incorporation may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or delaying or preventing a change in control or management of Forest City without the approval of these families or RMS LP. RMS Investment Corp. Provides Property Management and Leasing Services to Us and Is Controlled By Some of Our Affiliates We paid approximately $237,000 and $446,000 as total compensation during the years ended January 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, to RMS Investment Corp. for property management and leasing services. RMS Investment Corp. is controlled by members of the Ratner, Miller and Shafran families, some of whom are our directors and executive officers. RMS Investment Corp. manages and provides leasing services to our Cleveland-area specialty retail center, Golden Gate, which has 362,000 square feet. The current rate of compensation for this management service is 4% of all rental income, plus a leasing fee of generally 3% to 4% of rental income. Management believes these fees are comparable to those other management companies would charge to non-affiliated third parties. Additionally, RMS Investment Corp. managed and provided leasing services to Midtown Plaza, our other Cleveland-area retail center, under the same compensation structure until its sale on June 9, 2006. 10 Table of Contents Our Directors and Executive Officers May Have Interests in Competing Properties, and We Do Not Have Non-Compete Agreements with Certain of Our Directors and Executive Officers Under our current policy, no director or executive officer, including any member of the Ratner, Miller and Shafran families, is allowed to invest in a competing real estate opportunity without first obtaining the approval of the audit committee of our board of directors. We do not have non-compete agreements with any director, officer or employee, other than Charles Ratner, James Ratner, Ronald Ratner and Bruce Ratner who entered into non-compete agreements on November 9, 2006. Upon leaving Forest City, any other director, officer or employee could compete with us. Notwithstanding our policy, we permit our principal shareholders who are officers and employees to develop, expand, operate or sell independent of our business, certain commercial, industrial and residential properties that they owned prior to the implementation of our policy. As a result of their ownership of these properties, a conflict of interest may arise between them and Forest City, which may not be resolved in our favor. The conflict may involve the development or expansion of properties that may compete with our properties and the solicitation of tenants to lease these properties. Our High Debt Leverage and Market Conditions May Prevent Us from Responding to Changing Business and Economic Conditions Our high degree of debt leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. We have a relatively high ratio of debt, which consists of nonrecourse mortgage debt, a revolving credit facility and senior and subordinated debt, to total market capitalization, which was approximately 64.0% and 50.3% at January 31, 2008 and January 31, 2007, respectively, based on our long-term debt outstanding at that date and the market value of our outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Our high leverage may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes and may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy. Nonrecourse mortgage debt is collateralized by individual completed rental properties, projects under development and undeveloped land. We do not expect to repay a substantial amount of the principal of our outstanding debt prior to maturity or to have available funds from operations sufficient to repay this debt at maturity. As a result, it will be necessary for us to refinance our debt through new debt financings or through equity offerings. If interest rates are higher at the time of refinancing, our interest expense would increase, which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in the event we were unable to secure refinancing on acceptable terms, we might be forced to sell properties on unfavorable terms, which could result in the recognition of losses and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we were unable to make the required payments on any debt collateralized by a mortgage on one of our properties or to refinance that debt when it comes due, the mortgage lender could take that property through foreclosure and, as a result, we could lose income and asset value. Of our outstanding debt of approximately $7.3 billion at January 31, 2008, approximately $841.9 million becomes due in fiscal 2008 and approximately $481.9 million becomes due in fiscal 2009. This is inclusive of credit enhanced mortgage debt we have obtained for a number of our properties. Generally, the credit enhancement, such as a letter of credit, expire prior to the term of the underlying mortgage debt and must be renewed or replaced to prevent acceleration of the underlying mortgage debt. We treat credit enhanced debt as maturing in the year the credit enhancement expires. Recent difficulties in the sub-prime mortgage markets have negatively impacted the lending and capital markets, particularly for real estate. The risk premium demanded by capital suppliers has increased significantly, as they are demanding greater compensation for credit risk. Lending spreads have widened from recent levels and originations of new loans for the Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities market have decreased significantly. Underwriting standards are being tightened and spreads have risen. The continuation of these current market conditions and/or other fluctuations in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our ability to access capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, obtain renewals or replacement of credit enhancement devices, such as a letter of credit, or otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or by raising equity. Our inability to repay or refinance our debt when it becomes due could result in foreclosure on the properties pledged as collateral thereof. From time to time, a nonrecourse mortgage may become past due and if we are unsuccessful in negotiating an extension or refinancing, the lender could commence foreclosure proceedings. Our Credit Facility Covenants Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition We have guaranteed the obligations of Forest City Rental Properties Corporation, or FCRPC, under the FCRPC Amended and Restated credit agreement, dated as of June 6, 2007, as amended and restated, among FCRPC, the banks named therein, KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent, and National City Bank, as syndication agent. This guaranty imposes a number of restrictive covenants on Forest City, including a prohibition on certain consolidations and mergers and limitations on the amount of debt, guarantees and property liens that Forest City may incur. The guaranty also requires Forest City to maintain a specified minimum cash flow coverage ratio, consolidated shareholders’ equity and Earnings Before Depreciation and Taxes, or EBDT. 11 Table of Contents While we are in compliance at January 31, 2008, failure to comply with any of the covenants under the guaranty or failure by FCRPC to comply with any of the covenants under the FCRPC credit agreement could result in an event of default, which would trigger Forest City’s obligation to repay all amounts outstanding under the FCRPC credit agreement. Forest City’s ability and FCRPC’s ability to comply with these covenants will depend upon the future economic performance of Forest City and FCRPC. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be desirable or advantageous to us. Any Rise in Interest Rates Will Increase Our Interest Costs Including the effect of the protection provided by the interest rate swaps, caps and long-term contracts in place as of January 31, 2008, a 100 basis point increase in taxable interest rates (including properties accounted for under the equity method and corporate debt) would increase the annual pre-tax interest cost for the next 12 months of our variable-rate debt by approximately $10,307,000 at January 31, 2008. Although tax-exempt rates generally move in an amount that is smaller than corresponding changes in taxable interest rates, a 100 basis point increase in tax-exempt rates (including properties accounted for under the equity method) would increase the annual pre-tax interest cost for the next 12 months of our tax-exempt variable-rate debt by approximately $8,967,000 at January 31, 2008. The analysis above includes a portion of our taxable and tax-exempt variable-rate debt related to construction loans for which the interest expense is capitalized. If We Are Unable to Obtain Tax-Exempt Financings, Our Interest Costs Would Rise We regularly utilize tax-exempt financings and tax increment financings, which generally bear interest at rates below prevailing rates available through conventional taxable financing. We cannot assure you that tax-exempt bonds or similar government subsidized financing will continue to be available to us in the future, either for new development or acquisitions, or for the refinancing of outstanding debt. Our ability to obtain these financings or to refinance outstanding debt on favorable terms could significantly affect our ability to develop or acquire properties and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our Business Will Be Adversely Impacted Should an Uninsured Loss or a Loss in Excess of Insurance Limits Occur We carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, special property, flood, earthquake and rental loss (and environmental insurance on certain locations) with respect to our properties within insured limits and policy specifications that we believe are customary for similar properties. There are, however, specific types of losses, including environmental loss or losses of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from wars, terrorism, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, that in our judgment, cannot be purchased at a commercially viable cost. In the event of an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance limits, or a failure by an insurer to meet its obligations under a policy, we could lose both our invested capital in, and anticipated profits from, the affected property and could be exposed to liabilities with respect to that which we thought we had adequate insurance to cover. Any such uninsured loss could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Under our current policies, which expire October 31, 2008, our properties are insured against acts of terrorism, subject to various limits, deductibles and exclusions for acts of war and terrorist acts involving biological, chemical and nuclear damage. Once these policies expire, we may not be able to obtain adequate terrorism coverage at a reasonable cost. In addition, our insurers may not be able to maintain reinsurance sufficient to cover any losses we may incur as a result of terrorist acts. As a result, our insurers’ ability to provide future insurance for any damages that we sustain as a result of a terrorist attack may be reduced. Additionally, most of our current project mortgages require special all-risk property insurance, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain policies that will satisfy lender requirements. We are self-insured as to the first $500,000 of liability coverage and on the first $250,000 of property damage per occurrence through our wholly-owned captive insurance company that is licensed, regulated and capitalized in accordance with state of Arizona statutes. While we believe that our self-insurance reserves are adequate, we cannot assure you that we will not incur losses that exceed these self-insurance reserves. We May Be Adversely Impacted by Environmental Matters We are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; and the health and safety of our employees. In some instances, federal, state and local laws require abatement or removal of specific hazardous materials such as asbestos-containing materials or lead-based paint, in the event of demolition, renovations, remodeling, damage or decay. Laws and regulations also impose specific worker protection and notification requirements and govern emissions of and exposure to hazardous or toxic substances, such as asbestos fibers in the air. We incur costs to comply with such laws and regulations, but we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. 12 Table of Contents Under certain environmental laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of the investigation, removal and remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at that property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Certain contamination is difficult to remediate fully and can lead to more costly design specifications, such as a requirement to install vapor barrier systems, or a limitation on the use of the property and could preclude development of a site at all. The presence of hazardous substances on a property could also result in personal injury, contribution or other claims by private parties. In addition, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes may also be liable for the costs of the investigation, removal and remediation of those wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, regardless of whether that facility is owned or operated by that person. We have invested, and will in the future, invest in properties that are or have been used for or are near properties that have had industrial purposes in the past. As a result, our properties are or may become contaminated with hazardous or toxic substances. We will incur costs to investigate and possibly to remediate those conditions and it is possible that some contamination will remain in or under the properties even after such remediation. While we investigate these sites and work with all relevant governmental authorities to meet their standards given our intended use of the property, it is possible that there will be new information identified in the future that indicates there are additional unaddressed environmental impacts, there could be technical developments that will require new or different remedies to be undertaken in the future, and the regulatory standards imposed by governmental authorities could change in the future. As a result of the above, the value of our properties could decrease, our income from developed properties could decrease, our projects could be delayed, we could become obligated to third parties pursuant to indemnification agreements or guarantees, our expense to remediate or maintain the properties could increase, and our ability to successfully sell, rent or finance our properties could be adversely affected by environmental matters in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operation. While we maintain insurance for certain environmental matters, we cannot assure you that we will not incur losses related to environmental matters, including losses that may materially exceed any available insurance. See “Our Business Will Be Adversely Impacted Should an Uninsured Loss or a Loss in Excess of Insurance Limits Occur.” We Face Potential Liability from Residential Properties Accounted For on the Equity Method and Other Partnership Risks As part of our financing strategy, we have financed several real estate projects through limited partnerships with investment partners. The investment partner, typically a large, sophisticated institution or corporate investor, invests cash in exchange for a limited partnership interest and special allocations of expenses and the majority of tax losses and credits associated with the project. These partnerships typically require us to indemnify, on an after-tax or “grossed up” basis, the investment partner against the failure to receive or the loss of allocated tax credits and tax losses. Due to the economic structure and related economic substance, we have consolidated each of these properties in our consolidated financial statements. We believe that all the necessary requirements for qualification for such tax credits have been and will be met and that our investment partners will be able to receive expense allocations associated with these properties. However, we cannot assure you that this will, in fact, be the case or that we will not be required to indemnify our investment partners on an after-tax basis for these amounts. Any indemnification payment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition to partnerships, we also use limited liability companies, or LLCs, to finance some of our projects with third party lenders. Acting through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we typically are a general partner or managing member in these partnerships or LLCs. There are, however, instances in which we do not control or even participate in management or day-to-day operations. The use of a structure where we do not control the management of the entity involves special risks associated with the possibility that: • Another partner or member may have interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; • A general partner or managing member may take actions contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives with respect to our real estate investments; or • A partner or a member could experience financial difficulties that prevent it from fulfilling its financial or other responsibilities to the project or its lender or the other partners or members. To the extent we are a general partner, we may be exposed to unlimited liability, which may exceed our investment or equity in the partnership. If one of our subsidiaries is a general partner of a particular partnership it may be exposed to the same kind of unlimited liability. 13 Table of Contents Failure to Continue to Maintain Effective Internal Controls in Accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Ability to Ensure Timely and Reliable Financial Reporting Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. We will continue our ongoing process of testing and evaluating the effectiveness of, and remediating any issues identified related to, our internal control over financial reporting. During 2007, we implemented an enterprise resource planning system to optimize our processes to improve efficiency of our financial reporting process. While management uses a formal system development approach for new systems and upgrades to existing systems as required by Section 404, the approach and internal controls related to implementations and upgrades are not designed to anticipate every unforeseen event or circumstance encountered within the course of business. In addition, the process of documenting, testing and evaluating our internal control over financial reporting is complex and time consuming. Due to this complexity and the time-consuming nature of the process and because currently unforeseen events or circumstances beyond our control could arise, we cannot assure you that we ultimately will be able to continue to comply fully in subsequent fiscal periods with Section 404 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404, which could adversely affect public confidence in our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data to ensure timely and reliable external financial reporting. Compliance or Failure to Comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Other Similar Laws Could Result in Substantial Costs The Americans with Disabilities Act generally requires that public buildings, including office buildings and hotels, be made accessible to disabled persons. In the event that we are not in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the federal government could fine us or private parties could be awarded damages against us. If we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We may also incur significant costs complying with other regulations. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with all of these regulatory requirements. However, existing requirements may change and compliance with future requirements may require significant unanticipated expenditures that could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Changes in Market Conditions Could Hurt the Market Price of Our Publicly Traded Securities The market price of our publicly traded securities may be volatile and may fluctuate with various market conditions, which may change from time to time. The market conditions that may affect the market price of our publicly traded securities include the following: • Investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • The extent of institutional investor interest in us; • The reputation of the real estate industry generally; • The appeal of other real estate securities in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by real estate investment trusts); • Our financial condition and performance; and • General market volatility and economic conditions. The stock market has experienced volatile conditions resulting in substantial price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated or disproportionate to the financial performance of companies. These market fluctuations could cause the market price of our publicly traded securities to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 