Item 1A. Risk FactorsIncluded below are the primary risks and uncertainties that if realized could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our access to liquidity.Although We Have Chosen to Pursue Conversion to Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) Status, We May Not Be Successful in Converting to REIT status Effective January 1, 2016, or At AllOn January 13, 2015, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a plan for us to pursue conversion to REIT status under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). There are significant implementation and operational complexities to address before we can become a REIT, including completing internal reorganizations and modifying accounting, information technology and real estate systems, receiving shareholder approvals and third party consents, potentially obtaining one or more favorable private letter rulings (“PLR”) from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and making a special distribution to our shareholders of accumulated earnings and profits (the “E&P Distribution”). Further, changes in legislation, federal tax rules and interpretations thereof could adversely impact our ability to convert to REIT status and/or the attractiveness of converting to REIT status. Similarly, even if we are able to satisfy the existing REIT requirements, the tax laws, regulations and interpretations governing REITs may change at any time in ways that could be disadvantageous to us.Additionally, several conditions must be met in order to complete the conversion to REIT status, and the timing and outcome of many of these conditions are beyond our control. For example, we cannot provide assurance that all required consents will be obtained, or, if a PLR is necessary, the IRS may not provide us with a favorable PLR or that any favorable PLR will be received in a timely manner for us to convert successfully to REIT status as of January 1, 2016. Even if the transactions necessary to implement the REIT conversion are effected, our Board of Directors may decide not to elect REIT status, or to delay such election, if it determines in its sole discretion that it is not in the best interests of us or our shareholders. We can provide no assurance if or when conversion to REIT status will be successful. Furthermore, the effective date of the REIT conversion could be delayed beyond January 1, 2016, in which event we could not elect REIT status until the taxable year beginning January 1, 2017, at the earliest.We May Not Qualify or Remain Qualified as a REITIf we convert to REIT status, we plan to operate in a manner consistent with the REIT qualification rules; however, we cannot provide assurance that we will, in fact, qualify as a REIT or remain so qualified. REIT qualification involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code to our operations as well as various factual determinations concerning matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. Changes in legislation, federal tax rules and interpretations thereof could also prevent us from converting to REIT status or remaining qualified as a REIT.If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year after the REIT conversion, we may become subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates with respect to each such taxable year for which the statute of limitations remains open. In addition, we will be subject to monetary penalties for the failure. This treatment would significantly reduce our net earnings and cash flow because of our additional tax liability and the penalties for the years involved, which could significantly impact our financial condition.We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits to Shareholders, Including the Achievement of Significant Tax Savings for Us and Regular Distributions to Our ShareholdersEven if we successfully elect REIT status, we cannot provide assurance that our shareholders will experience benefits attributable to our qualification and taxation as a REIT, including our ability to reduce our corporate level federal tax through distributions to shareholders and to make regular distributions to shareholders. The realization of the anticipated benefits to shareholders will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, future cash distributions to shareholders will depend on our cash flows, as well as the impact of alternative, more attractive investments as compared to dividends. Further, changes in legislation or the federal tax rules could adversely impact the benefits of being a REIT.Complying with REIT Qualification Requirements May Limit Our Flexibility or Cause Us to Forego Otherwise Attractive OpportunitiesTo qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our common stock. For example, under the Code, no more than 25% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more of our U.S. taxable REIT subsidiaries and other nonqualifying assets. This limitation may affect our ability to make large investments in other non-REIT qualifying operations or assets. In addition, in order to maintain qualification as a REIT, we will be required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income annually, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains. As such, compliance with REIT tests may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, including the purchase of significant nonqualifying assets and the material expansion of non-real estate activities.7Table of ContentsThere are Uncertainties Relating to the Amount of the E&P Distribution, as well as the Timing of Such E&P Distribution and the Composition of Common Stock and Cash We May Distribute We have indicated that we expect to issue a special distribution to our shareholders of accumulated earnings and profits. Our year end 2015 earnings and profits (and the E&P Distribution) will vary depending on, among other items, the pace and timing of certain transactions, our actual taxable income and performance for 2015 and possible changes in legislation or tax rules and IRS revenue procedures relating to distributions of earnings and profits. The timing of the planned E&P Distribution, which may or may not occur, may be affected by potential changes in tax law, the completion of various phases of the REIT conversion process and other factors beyond our control. We May Issue Equity, Debt or Both to Satisfy our E&P Distribution and Other REIT Conversion CostsDepending on the ultimate size and timing of our E&P Distribution and the cash requirements for other REIT conversion costs, we may issue equity, debt or both to fund these disbursements. Whether we issue equity, at what price and amount and other terms of any such issuances will depend on many factors, including alternative sources of capital, our then existing leverage, our need for additional capital, market conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities or debt convertible into equity securities, the percentage of stock ownership by our existing shareholders may be reduced. In addition, new equity securities or convertible debt securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our current shareholders, which could substantially decrease the value of our securities owned by them. Depending on the share price we are able to obtain, we may have to sell a significant number of shares in order to raise the capital we deem necessary to execute our long-term strategy, and our shareholders may experience dilution in the value of their shares as a result. Furthermore, satisfying our E&P Distribution and other REIT conversion costs may increase the financing we need to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives. As a result our indebtedness could increase. See “Our High Debt Leverage May Prevent Us from Responding to Changing Business and Economic Conditions” for further information regarding our substantial indebtedness.Restrictive Loan Covenants Could Prevent Us from Satisfying REIT Distribution RequirementsIf we are successful in converting to REIT status, restrictions in our credit facility may prevent us from satisfying our REIT distribution requirements, and we could fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT. If these limits do not jeopardize our qualification for taxation as a REIT but nevertheless prevent us from distributing 100% of our REIT taxable income, we would be subject to federal corporate income tax, and potentially a nondeductible excise tax, on the retained amounts. See “Our Corporate Debt Covenants Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition” for further information on our restrictive loan covenants.We Have No Experience Operating as a REIT, Which May Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations if We Successfully Convert to REIT statusWe have no experience operating as a REIT and our senior management has no experience operating a REIT. Our pre-REIT operating experience may not be sufficient to prepare us to operate successfully as a REIT. Our inability to operate successfully as a REIT, including the failure to maintain REIT status, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Lending and Capital Market Conditions May Negatively Impact Our Liquidity and Our Ability to Finance or Refinance Projects or Repay Our Debt Current U.S. and global economic conditions continue to remain uncertain despite recent improvements. The capital markets have continued to improve from post-recession lows, with banks and permanent lenders indicating an increased interest in originating new loans for real estate projects, particularly as their existing portfolio loans get paid off. Originations of new loans for commercial mortgage backed securities have continued to improve as well. Although underwriting standards have eased, lenders continue favoring high quality operating assets in strong markets. Despite these market improvements, we may not be able to obtain financings on terms comparable to those we secured prior to the economic downturn. Economic conditions during the recession required us to curtail our investment in certain new development opportunities, which will negatively impact our growth. We have started to increase our development pipeline but will remain cautious in investing in new development opportunities. If economic conditions begin to trend downwards, we may be required to further curtail our development or expansion projects and potentially write down our investments in some projects.Current economic conditions, although improved, are still volatile and could deteriorate, which may impact our ability to refinance our debt and obtain renewals or replacement of credit enhancement devices, such as letters of credit, on favorable terms or at all. While some of our current financings have extension options, some are contingent upon pre-determined underwriting qualifications. Projects may not meet the required conditions to qualify for such extensions. Our inability to extend, repay or refinance our debt when it becomes due, including upon a default or acceleration event, could result in foreclosure on the properties pledged as collateral, which could result in a loss of our investment. We may be unable to refinance or extend our maturing debt obligations and lenders in certain circumstances may require a higher rate of interest, repayment of a portion of the outstanding principal or additional equity contributions to the project.8Table of ContentsA significant amount of our total outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2014 becomes due in each of the next three fiscal years. If these amounts are unable to be refinanced, extended or repaid from other sources, such as sales of properties or new equity, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt.Total outstanding debt includes credit enhanced mortgage debt we have obtained for a number of our properties to back the bonds issued by a government authority and then remarketed to the public. Generally, the credit enhancement, such as a letter of credit, expires prior to the terms of the underlying mortgage debt and must be renewed or replaced to prevent acceleration of the underlying mortgage debt. We treat credit enhanced debt as maturing in the year the credit enhancement expires. However, if the credit enhancement is drawn upon due to the inability to remarket the bonds due to reasons including, but not limited to, market dislocation or a downgrade in the credit rating of the credit enhancer, not only would the bonds incur additional interest expense, but the debt maturity could accelerate to as early as 90 days after the acceleration occurs.Additionally, in the event of a failure of a lender or counterparty to a financial contract, obligations under the financial contract might not be honored and many forms of assets may be at risk and may not be fully returned to us. Should a financial institution, particularly a construction lender, fail to fund its committed amounts when contractually obligated, our ability to meet our obligations and complete projects could be adversely impacted.The Ownership, Development and Management of Commercial Real Estate is Challenging During the Slow Economic Recovery The current economic environment continues to impact the real estate industry, specifically for retail and office properties. Some commercial tenants are experiencing financial pressure and are continuing to place demands on landlords to provide rent concessions. The financial hardships on some tenants are so severe they may leave the market entirely or declare bankruptcy, creating fluctuating vacancy rates in commercial properties. The tenants with good financial condition are often considering offers from competing projects and may wait for the best possible deal before committing.The stress currently experienced by the real estate industry is particularly evident in our retail development projects. Projects that had good demographics and strong retailer interest to support a retail development when we began construction are experiencing leasing difficulty. When the financial markets began experiencing volatility in the second half of 2008 and the economy entered a recession, we experienced a corresponding volatility in retailer interest for our projects. Retailers continue to express interest in the projects, but are reluctant to commit to new stores in the current economic environment. As a result, we have delayed anticipated openings, reduced anticipated rents and incurred additional carrying costs, all resulting in an adverse impact on our business. If we are unable to or decide not to proceed with certain projects, we could incur write-offs, some of which could be substantial, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Retail leasing at our Westchester’s Ridge Hill development project in Westchester County, New York, has continued to progress slowly. Currently, the center is 70% leased including Parcel L, which is a self-contained pad site at the southern end of the center. Portions of the retail center have been open since May 2011; however; future phases have not opened and the entire project is subject to a completion guaranty. The opening dates for additional tenants are dependent upon our leasing efforts, which in turn could increase our equity requirements into this project.If Westchester’s Ridge Hill does not stabilize at expected cash flow levels, the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. We may also consider a sale of the project, whereby we would be required to shorten our estimated hold period, or we may pursue a joint venture partner in the project. Under a potential joint venture scenario, we may grant joint control or lose control of the asset, requiring us to deconsolidate the asset. Upon deconsolidation, our investment balance in the joint venture would be compared to estimated fair value and recorded at the lesser of fair value or book value. Dependent on the outcome of any of the above scenarios, we may be required to record future impairments, some of which would likely be significant.We Are Subject to Risks Associated with Investments in Real EstateThe value of, and our income from, our properties may decline due to developments that adversely affect real estate generally and developments specific to our properties. General factors that may adversely affect our real estate portfolios, if they were to occur or continue, include:•Increases in interest rates;•The availability of financing, including refinancing or extensions of our nonrecourse mortgage debt maturities, on acceptable terms, or at all;•A decline in the economic conditions at the national, regional or local levels, particularly a decline in one or more of our core markets;•Decreases in rental rates;•An increase in competition for tenants and customers or a decrease in demand by tenants and customers;•The financial condition of tenants, including the extent of bankruptcies and defaults;9Table of Contents•An increase in supply of or decrease in demand for our property types in our core markets;•Declines in consumer confidence and spending that adversely affect our revenue from our retail centers;•Declines in housing markets in Stapleton, Colorado that adversely affect our revenue from our land segment;•The adoption on the national, state or local level of more restrictive laws and governmental regulations, including more restrictive zoning, land use or environmental regulations and increased real estate taxes; and•Opposition from local community or political groups with respect to the development, construction or operations at a particular site.In addition, there are factors that may adversely affect the value of specific operating properties or result in reduced income or unexpected expenses. As a result, we may not achieve our projected returns on the properties and we could lose some or all of our investments in those properties. Those operational factors include:•Adverse changes in the perceptions of prospective tenants or purchasers of the attractiveness of the property;•Our inability to provide adequate management and maintenance;•The investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials or toxic substances at a site;•Our inability to collect rent or other receivables;•Vacancies and other changes in rental rates;•An increase in operating costs that cannot be passed through to tenants;•Introduction of a competitor’s property in, or in close proximity to, one of our current markets;•Underinsured or uninsured natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods or hurricanes; and•Our inability to obtain adequate insurance.We Are Subject to Real Estate Development Risks In addition to the risks described above, our development projects are subject to significant additional risks relating to our ability to complete our projects on time and on budget. Factors that may result in a development project exceeding budget, being delayed or being prevented from completion include:•An inability to secure sufficient financing on favorable terms, or at all, including an inability to refinance or extend construction loans;•Construction delays or cost overruns, either of which may increase project development costs;•An increase in commodity costs;•An inability to obtain zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations;•An inability to secure tenants or anchors necessary to support the project;•Failure to achieve or sustain anticipated occupancy or sales levels; •Threatened or pending litigation;•Failure by partners to fulfill obligations; and•Construction stoppages due to labor disputes.Some of these development risks were magnified during the recession and continue to be heightened given current uncertain and potentially volatile market conditions. See also “Lending and Capital Market Conditions May Negatively Impact Our Liquidity and Our Ability to Finance or Refinance Projects or Repay Our Debt” and “The Ownership, Development and Management of Commercial Real Estate is Challenging During the Slow Economic Recovery” above. If market volatility causes economic conditions to remain unpredictable or to trend downwards, we may not achieve our projected returns on properties under development and we could lose some or all of our investments in those properties. In addition, the lead time required to develop, construct and lease-up a development property has substantially increased, which could adversely impact our projected returns or result in a termination of the development project.In the past, we have elected not to proceed, or have been prevented from proceeding, with certain development projects, and we anticipate this may occur again. In addition, development projects may be delayed or terminated because a project partner or prospective anchor withdraws, a project partner fails to fulfill contractual obligations or a third party challenges our entitlements or public financing.We periodically serve as either the construction manager or the general contractor for our development projects. The construction of real estate projects entails unique risks, including risks that the project will fail to conform to building plans, specifications and timetables. These failures could be caused by labor strikes, weather, government regulations and other conditions beyond our control. In addition, we may become liable for injuries and accidents occurring during the construction process that are underinsured.10Table of ContentsIn the construction of new projects, we generally guarantee the lien-free completion of the project to the construction loan lender. This guaranty is recourse to us and places the risk of construction delays and cost overruns on us. In addition, from time to time, we guarantee our construction obligations to major tenants and public agencies. These types of guarantees are released upon completion of the project, as defined. We may have significant expenditures in the future in order to comply with our lien-free completion obligations which could have an adverse impact on our cash flows.Our Pacific Park Brooklyn project is currently facing these and other development risks.•On June 30, 2014, we entered into a joint venture with Greenland Atlantic Yards, LLC, a subsidiary of Shanghai-based Greenland Holding Group Company Limited (“Greenland”), to develop Pacific Park Brooklyn, a 22 acre mixed-use project in Brooklyn, New York. Under the joint venture, Greenland acquired 70% of the project and will co-develop the project with us, along with sharing in the entire project costs going forward in proportion to ownership interests. The joint venture will execute on the remaining development rights, including the infrastructure and vertical construction of the residential units, but excludes Barclays Center and the under construction B2 BKLYN apartment community. Consistent with the approved master plan, the joint venture will develop the remaining portion of Phase I and all of Phase II of the project, including the permanent rail yard. The remaining portion of Phase I that will be developed by the joint venture is comprised of seven buildings totaling approximately 3.1 million square feet. Phase II consists of seven buildings totaling approximately 3.3 million square feet.Under the joint venture with Greenland, the Pacific Park Brooklyn project will be managed by a board composed of three representatives from Greenland and two representatives from the Company. While decisions would require a majority vote, many decisions labeled “Special Major Decisions” would require a vote by us for approval. There is the risk that many of the decisions made by the joint venture would not be in our best interests and further, that an inability to agree on certain of the Special Major Decisions would trigger buy-sell rights and obligations between us and Greenland. The exercise of the buy-sell rights could result in our having to fund the purchase of Greenland’s interest in the entire joint venture or in one or more individual parcels. It could also result in having our interests be purchased and the loss of ownership of the Pacific Park Brooklyn project or of one or more parcels thereof.Greenland also required the joint venture have the ability to obtain recourse financing to the extent nonrecourse financing was not available at a commercially reasonable rate, or only available at an interest rate which equals or exceeds 200 basis points more than available recourse financing. However, no more than $300 million of recourse financing could be outstanding at any time project-wide, including parcels under development. Such recourse financing would be available based on a loan guarantee provided solely by Greenland and Greenland would receive compensation from the joint venture for lending its credit for such recourse financing in the amount of the interest rate savings up to 300 basis points. However, to the extent a recourse loan becomes due and cannot be refinanced, we will be obligated to pay Greenland for our share of the loan on a capital call or, if we elect to have Greenland advance our share, within one year of such advance and out of available cash flow from the project.On June 27, 2014, the City of New York and State of New York entities revised certain project requirements with the goal of accelerating the construction of affordable housing. These requirements include starting construction of one multi-family building consisting entirely of affordable rental units by December 31, 2014 (which was met) and a second building consisting entirely of affordable rental units by June 30, 2015. Each construction obligation carries liquidated damage penalties of up to $5,000,000, payable to a city housing trust fund, if not commenced by the required dates. In addition, affordable units are required to constitute 35% of all units for which construction has commenced until 1,050 affordable units have been started, after which the percentage drops to 25%. Failure to meet this requirement will prevent the joint venture from seeking new building permits, as well as give the State the right to seek injunctive relief. Also, temporary certificates of occupancy (“TCOs”) for a total of 2,250 affordable housing units are required to be issued by May 31, 2025 or a $2,000 per unit per month penalty will be imposed for those affordable units which have not received TCOs by such date, until issued.A substantial amount of additional costs for rail yard and infrastructure improvements, including a platform over the new permanent rail yard, will be required to proceed with Phase II of Pacific Park Brooklyn. More specifically, our agreement with the Metropolitan Transit Authority (“MTA”) requires collateral to be posted and for the construction of the permanent rail yard to be substantially complete by December 2017. Collateral of $86,000,000 was posted with the MTA, of which our portion was 30%, or approximately $26,000,000, which resulted in an increase to our equity method investment.There is also the potential for increased costs and further delays to the project as a result of (i) increasing construction costs, (ii) scarcity of labor and supplies, (iii) the unavailability of additional needed financing, (iv) our or our partners’ inability or failure to meet required equity contributions, (v) increasing rates for financing, (vi) our inability to meet certain agreed upon deadlines for the development of the project, (vii) other potential litigation seeking to enjoin or prevent the project or litigation for which there may not be insurance coverage and (viii) our or our partners’ inability to fulfill contractual obligations. In addition, as applicable contractual and other deadlines and decision points approach, we could have less time and flexibility to plan and implement our responses to these or other risks to the extent that any of them may actually arise.11Table of ContentsWe Are Exposed to Additional Development Risk in Connection with Using a New Construction Methodology on B2 BKLYN, Modular Construction, Litigation Risks, and Owning a Factory to Produce the Modular UnitsB2 BKLYN is an apartment building under construction in Brooklyn, New York adjacent to the Barclays Center at the Pacific Park Brooklyn project. We decided to use modular construction to build this 32 story, 363 unit apartment building. During 2014, our former partner in the modular factory and the B2 BKLYN construction manager ceased operations at and closed the factory for the fabrication of apartment modular units which were being used in the construction of B2 BKLYN. As a result, in November 2014, we purchased our former partner’s ownership interest in the modular factory and in December 2014, we engaged a new construction manager to oversee the construction of B2 BKLYN and began preparations to recommence construction of modular units.We are engaged in litigation with our former partner in the modular factory and the former B2 BKLYLN construction manager relating primarily to the project’s delays and associated additional completion costs. We are seeking to recover all costs associated to complete the building, including those incurred by the modular factory. With the re-opening of the modular factory and the re-activation of the B2 BKLYN project site, we do not anticipate further delays resulting directly from the litigation, as the natural conclusion (or settlement) of the pending litigations will be limited to the payment of monetary damages from one party to the other. We may not be able to successfully recover all or any of the costs we are seeking to recover.In addition to risks inherent in construction projects generally, such as unanticipated site conditions, environmental, and force majeure issues, the following additional risks exist with constructing B2 BKLYN:•High rise modular construction has not previously been done at the heights of B2 BKLYN. As a result, the project has encountered, and may continue to encounter, delays and increased costs in the fabrication and assembly of the modular units. Based on the latest information available, we estimate the construction will be completed in the third quarter of 2016. If the project continues to experience such delays, we may fail to satisfy completion deadlines set forth under the lending arrangements for the project and the lenders may not be willing to extend such deadlines. Failure to meet the completion deadlines could result in a default under such lending arrangements with a resulting acceleration of the debt and foreclosure of the project, as well as reputational damage;•Third party claims that any element of the design or construction methodology infringes on protected intellectual rights could delay the project and increase construction costs; and•In 2013, two trade organizations representing New York City-licensed plumbers and mechanical contractors sued the City of New York, challenging a determination by its Department of Buildings (“DOB”) that certain piping work performed in a modular factory need not be performed by licensed plumbers or mechanical contractors if such work was monitored by a licensed professional engineer and otherwise complied with the technical requirements of the New York City Building and Construction Codes. Piping work at our modular factory is being performed by non-licensees monitored by a licensed professional engineer in accordance with DOB’s determination. We intervened in the proceeding, and in December 2013 the Court dismissed the suit. However, these trade organizations appealed the Court’s determination. It is possible that the lower Court could be reversed on appeal. It also remains a possibility that other construction industry organizations could bring similar suits challenging the DOB-authorized fabrication methodology used in our factory. If the DOB’s determination were overturned and licensees were required in the modular factory, it would likely increase the cost of construction and potentially delay the completion of B2 BKLYN.Vacancies in Our Properties May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Fair Value CalculationsOur results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to continue leasing a significant portion of our commercial and residential real estate portfolio. We depend on commercial and residential tenants in order to collect rents and other charges. The economic downturn and current market conditions have impacted our tenants on many levels. Despite improvement in certain economic measures, it will take time for many of our current or prospective tenants to achieve a financial outlook similar to what they had prior to the recession, if ever. The downturn has been particularly hard on retail tenants, many of whom have announced store closings and scaled back growth plans. If we are unable to sustain historical occupancy levels in our real estate portfolio, our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to sustain our current and historical occupancy levels also depends on many other factors discussed elsewhere in this section.12Table of ContentsWe Face Risks Associated with Developing and Managing Properties in Partnership with OthersWe use partnerships and limited liability companies (“LLCs”) to finance, develop or manage some of our real estate investments. Acting through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we typically are a general partner or managing member in these partnerships or LLCs. There are, however, instances in which we do not control or even participate in management or day-to-day operations of these properties. The use of partnerships and LLCs involve special risks associated with the possibility that:•A partner or member may have interests or goals inconsistent with ours;•A general partner or managing member may take actions contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives with respect to our real estate investments;•A partner or a member could experience financial difficulties that prevent it from fulfilling its financial or other responsibilities to the project, or its lender, or the other partners or members; or•A partner may not fulfill its contractual obligations.In the event any of our partners or members files for bankruptcy, we could be precluded from taking certain actions affecting our project without bankruptcy court approval, which could diminish our control over the project even if we were the general partner or managing member. In addition, if the bankruptcy court were to discharge the obligations of our partner or member, it could result in our ultimate liability for the project being greater than originally anticipated.To the extent we are a general partner, we may be exposed to unlimited liability, which may exceed our investment or equity in the partnership. If one of our subsidiaries is a general partner of a particular partnership, it may be exposed to the same kind of unlimited liability.Our Properties and Businesses Face Significant CompetitionThe real estate industry is highly competitive in many of the markets in which we operate. Competition could over-saturate any market and create vacancies at our properties, resulting in an adverse effect to our operations and cash flow. As a result, we may not have sufficient cash to meet the nonrecourse debt service requirements on certain of our properties. Although we may attempt to negotiate a restructuring with the mortgagee, we may not be successful, particularly in light of current credit markets, which could cause a property to be transferred to the mortgagee.There are many developers, managers and owners of commercial and residential real estate and undeveloped land that compete with us nationally, regionally and/or locally, some of whom have greater financial resources and market share than us. They compete with us for management and leasing opportunities, land for development, properties for acquisition and disposition, and for anchor stores and tenants for properties. We may not be able to successfully compete in these areas. If our competitors prevent us from realizing our real estate objectives, the operating performance of our projects may fall short of expectations and adversely affect our financial performance.Tenants at our retail properties face continual competition in attracting customers from Internet shopping, retailers at other shopping centers, catalogue companies, online merchants, television shopping networks, warehouse stores, large discounters, outlet malls, wholesale clubs, direct mail and telemarketers. Our competitors and those of our tenants could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space in our retail properties and on the rents we can charge or the concessions we can grant. This in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, and could affect the realizable value of our assets upon sale. Further, as new technologies emerge, the relationship among customers, retailers, and shopping centers are evolving on a rapid basis and it is critical we adapt to such new technologies and relationships on a timely basis. We may be unable to adapt quickly and effectively, which could adversely impact our financial performance.We May Be Unable to Sell Properties to Reposition Our PortfolioBecause real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may be unable to dispose of underperforming properties and may be unable to reposition our portfolio in response to changes in national, regional or local real estate markets. In addition, potential buyers may be unable to secure financing, which could negatively impact our ability to dispose of our properties. As a result, we may incur operating losses from some of our properties and may have to write down the value of some properties due to impairment.13Table of ContentsOur Results of Operations and Cash Flows May Be Adversely Affected by Tenant Defaults or BankruptcyOur results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants default on their obligations to us. A default by a tenant may result in the inability for such tenant to re-lease space from us on economically favorable terms, or at all. In the event of a default by a tenant, we may experience delays in payments and incur substantial costs in recovering our losses.In addition, our ability to collect rents and other charges will be difficult if the tenant is bankrupt or insolvent. Our tenants have from time to time filed for bankruptcy or been involved in insolvency proceedings. We may be required to expense costs associated with leases of bankrupt tenants and may not be able to replace future rents for tenant space rejected in bankruptcy proceedings which could adversely affect our properties. The current bankruptcies of some of our tenants, and the potential bankruptcies of other tenants in the future, could make it difficult for us to enforce our rights as lessor and protect our investment.Based on tenants with contractual rent of greater than 2% as of December 31, 2014, our five largest office tenants by leased square feet are the City of New York, Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., U.S. Government, WellPoint, Inc. and JP Morgan Chase & Co. Given our large concentration of office space in the Greater New York City metropolitan area, we may be adversely affected by the consolidation or failure of certain financial institutions. Based on tenants with contractual rent of greater than 1% as of December 31, 2014, our five largest retail tenants by leased square feet are Regal Entertainment Group, Dick’s Sporting Goods, Inc., Bass Pro Shops, Inc., Target Corporation and The Gap Inc. An event of default or bankruptcy of one of our largest tenants would increase the adverse impact on us.We May Be Negatively Impacted by the Consolidation or Closing of Anchor StoresOur retail centers are generally anchored by department stores or other “big box” tenants. We could be adversely affected if one or more of these anchor stores were to consolidate, close or enter into bankruptcy. Given the current economic environment for retailers, there is a heightened risk an anchor store could close or enter into bankruptcy. Although non-tenant anchors generally do not pay us rent, they typically contribute towards common area maintenance and other expenses. Even if we own the anchor space, we may be unable to re-lease this area or to re-lease it on comparable terms. The loss of these revenues could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Further, the temporary or permanent loss of any anchor would likely reduce customer traffic in the retail center, which could lead to decreased sales at other retail stores. Rents obtained from other tenants may be adversely impacted as a result of co-tenancy clauses in their leases. One or more of these factors could cause the retail center to fail to meet its debt service requirements. The consolidation of anchor stores may also negatively affect current and future development projects.We May Be Negatively Impacted by International ActivitiesWhile our international activities are limited in scope and generally focused on evaluating various international opportunities, any international business activities we participate in would subject us to risks that could have an adverse effect on the projected returns on the international projects or our overall results of operations. We have limited or no prior experience developing and managing international properties in such markets, or dealing with foreign economies or cultures, changes in political environments or changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies. As a result, we may have to rely on the efforts and abilities of foreign business partners and agents. We may also experience difficulties integrating these properties into our business operations. In addition, these international activities increase our exposure to fines and penalties stemming from a variety of local, federal and international laws and regulations governing these foreign properties and business activities including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws related to anti-corruption and anti-bribery. Any such violations by our employees, contractors, partners or agents could materially damage our reputation, international expansion efforts, and projected returns on foreign investments, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Terrorist Attacks and Other Armed Conflicts May Adversely Affect Our BusinessWe have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, and the greater metropolitan areas of New York City, San Francisco and Washington D.C., which face a heightened risk related to terrorism. Some tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States. This could result in a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. In addition, properties in our real estate portfolio could be directly impacted by future terrorist attacks, which could cause the value of our property and the level of our revenues to significantly decline.Future terrorist activity, related armed conflicts or prolonged or increased tensions in the Middle East could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease and adversely affect mall traffic. Additionally, future terrorist attacks could increase volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our revenues, costs and operating results.14Table of ContentsWe Are Subject to the Risks of Owning and Operating an ArenaBarclays Center is the home venue for the Nets basketball team and future home of the New York Islanders professional hockey team which will relocate to Barclays Center for the 2015-2016 hockey season. In addition, the mix of events at the Barclays Center include a variety of concerts, family shows, and other sporting events. As we approach stabilized operations, which is taking longer to achieve than originally anticipated, our investment in the Barclays Center is dependent on a number of factors, that could adversely affect us, including:•Pricing and sales pace for suites and sponsorships, including new sales and renewals of existing agreements;•Performance of the third party asset manager to operate the Arena efficiently and effectively;•Attendance at games and events, which drives on-site spending for concessions and merchandise;•General economic conditions that affect corporate and individual spending on entertainment and leisure activities;•Ability to secure event bookings through relationships with promoters, artists and other clients;•Popularity of live entertainment events as a whole and individual acts;•Popularity of the Nets and New York Islanders, their performance, and fan base;•Competition from other event venues in our marketplace;•Competition from other leisure-time activities, such as television, radio, and the internet;•Organized labor matters; and•Actions of the NBA, NHL, the Nets and the New York Islanders.The Investment in a Professional Sports Franchise Involves Certain Risks and Future Losses Are Expected for the NetsOn August 16, 2004, we purchased our ownership interest in the Nets, which was the first step in our efforts to pursue development projects at Pacific Park Brooklyn. On May 12, 2010, we, through our consolidated subsidiary NS&E, closed on a purchase agreement with entities controlled by Mikhail Prokhorov (“MP Entities”). The transaction resulted in a change of controlling ownership interest in the Nets. Following the transaction with the MP Entities, NS&E retained a 20% non-controlling ownership of the Nets. As we have a 62% ownership interest in NS&E, our resulting ownership interest in the Nets after the transaction is approximately 12%. We did not fund the July 2013 or 2014 capital calls related to the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 NBA basketball seasons, respectively. This did not constitute a default of any agreements related to our investment in the Nets. However, under the terms of the operating agreement, the MP Entities had the right to dilute NS&E’s ownership interests upon NS&E not funding capital calls. During 2013, we entered into an agreement with the MP Entities, in which they agreed to fund NS&E’s portion of future capital calls through July 2015 and not exercise the right to dilute NS&E’s ownership interests for this two year period in exchange for a fee. If NS&E does not repay the MP Entities the amounts advanced, including any unpaid and outstanding fees to them by July 2015 or make payment on any future capital calls, and if we decide we are unable or unwilling to fund any of such payments, our interest may be diluted and could result in up to a total loss of our investment in the Nets.Our investment in the Nets is subject to a number of operational risks, including risks associated with operating conditions, competitive factors, economic conditions and industry conditions. The Nets may incur operating losses if they are not able to successfully manage the following operational risks:•Competition with other major league sports, college athletics and other sports-related and non sports-related entertainment;•Dependence on competitive success of the Nets;•Fluctuations in the amount of revenues from advertising, sponsorships, concessions, merchandise, parking and season and other ticket sales, which are tied to the popularity and success of the Nets and general economic conditions;•Uncertainties of increases in players’ salaries;•Incurrence of luxury tax liability;•Risk of injuries to key players;•Dependence on talented players;•Uncertainties relating to labor relations in professional sports, including the expiration of the NBA’s current collective bargaining agreement, or a player or management initiated stoppage after such expiration; and•Dependence on television and cable network, radio and other media contracts.15Table of ContentsWe May Be Unable to Sell All or a Portion of Our Ownership Interests in the Nets and Barclays CenterDuring the six months ended December 31, 2014, we began and continued discussions with several interested parties for the potential sale of our ownership interests in the Nets. Through those discussions, certain parties have also expressed interest in acquiring a portion of our ownership interests in Barclays Center. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to close on the sale of a portion or all of our ownership interests in the Nets or Barclays Center on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to sell our ownership interest in the Nets by the time we are required to repay the MP Entities the amounts owed to them by July 2015 or make payment on any future capital calls and if we decide we are unable or unwilling to fund any of such payments, then our interest may be diluted and could result in up to a total loss of our investment in the Nets.Our High Debt Leverage May Prevent Us from Responding to Changing Business and Economic Conditions Our high degree of debt leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. We have a ratio of debt (consisting of nonrecourse mortgage debt, a revolving credit facility and convertible senior debt) to total market capitalization of approximately 53.8% and 57.2% at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, based on our debt outstanding at that date and the market value of our outstanding common stock. Our high leverage may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes and may make us more vulnerable to a prolonged downturn in the economy.Nonrecourse mortgage debt is collateralized by individual completed rental properties, projects under development and undeveloped land. We do not expect to repay a substantial amount of the principal of our outstanding debt prior to maturity or to have available funds from operations sufficient to repay this debt at maturity. As a result, it will be necessary for us to refinance our debt through new debt financings or through equity offerings. If interest rates are higher at the time of refinancing, our interest expense would increase, which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Cash flows and our liquidity would also be adversely affected if we are required to repay a portion of the outstanding principal or contribute additional equity to obtain the refinancing. In addition, in the event we were unable to secure refinancing on acceptable terms, we might be forced to sell properties on unfavorable terms, which could result in the recognition of losses and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we were unable to make the required payments on any debt collateralized by a mortgage on one of our properties or to refinance that debt when it comes due, the mortgage lender could take that property through foreclosure and, as a result, we could lose income and asset value as well as harm our Company reputation.Our Corporate Debt Covenants Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition We have guaranteed the obligations of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Forest City Rental Properties Corporation, or FCRPC, under the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and Fourth Amended and Restated Guaranty of Payment of Debt (as amended to the date hereof, collectively, the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility imposes a number of restrictive covenants on us, including a prohibition on certain consolidations and mergers, limitations on the amount of debt, guarantees and property liens we may incur, restrictions on the pledging of ownership interests in subsidiaries, limitations on the use of cash sources, limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and limitations of our ability to repurchase our common stock. The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a specified minimum liquidity, debt yield, debt service coverage, cash flow coverage and development asset ratios and consolidated shareholders’ equity.The failure to comply with any of our financial or non-financial covenants could result in an event of default and accelerate some or all of our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our ability to comply with these covenants will depend upon our future economic performance. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be desirable or advantageous to us.We Are Subject to Risks Associated With Hedging AgreementsWe enter into interest rate swap agreements and other interest rate hedging contracts, including caps to mitigate or reduce our exposure to interest rate volatility or to satisfy lender requirements. These agreements expose us to additional risks, including a risk the counterparties will not perform. Moreover, the hedging agreement may not qualify for hedge accounting or our hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations. Should a hedging agreement prematurely terminate, there could be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our initial obligation under the hedging agreement.When a hedging agreement is required under the terms of a mortgage loan, it is often a condition the hedge counterparty agree to certain conditions which include, but are not limited to, maintaining a specified credit rating. With the volatility in the financial markets and reporting requirements recently adopted by governmental agencies, there is a reduced pool of eligible counterparties that can meet or are willing to agree to the required conditions, which has resulted in an increased cost for hedging agreements. This could make it difficult to enter into hedging agreements in the future. Additionally, if the counterparty failed to satisfy any of the required conditions and we were unable to renegotiate the required conditions with the lender or find an alternative counterparty for such hedging agreements, we could be in default under the loan and the lender could take that property through foreclosure.16Table of ContentsOur bonds that are structured in a total rate of return swap arrangement (“TROR”) have maturities reflected in the year the bond matures as opposed to the TROR maturity date, which is likely to be earlier. Throughout the life of the TROR, if the property is not performing at designated levels or due to changes in market conditions, the property may be obligated to make collateral deposits with the counterparty. At expiration or termination of the TROR arrangement, the property must pay or is entitled to the difference, if any, between the fair market value of the bond and par. If the property does not post collateral or make the counterparty whole at expiration, the counterparty could foreclose on the property.Any Rise in Interest Rates Will Increase Our Current and Future Interest CostsIncluding the effect of the protection provided by the interest rate swaps, caps and long-term contracts in place as of December 31, 2014, a 100 basis point increase in taxable interest rates (including properties accounted for under the equity method, corporate debt and the effect of interest rate floors) would increase the annual pre-tax interest cost for the next 12 months of our current outstanding variable-rate debt by approximately $6,829,000 at December 31, 2014. Although tax-exempt rates generally move in an amount smaller than corresponding changes in taxable interest rates, a 100 basis point increase in tax-exempt rates (including properties accounted for under the equity method) would increase the annual pre-tax interest cost for the next 12 months of our current outstanding tax-exempt variable-rate debt by approximately $6,571,000 at December 31, 2014. This analysis includes a portion of our taxable and tax-exempt variable-rate debt related to construction loans for which the interest expense is capitalized. For variable rate bonds, during times of market illiquidity, a premium interest rate could be charged on the bonds to successfully market them, which would result in even higher interest rates. A rising interest rate environment would increase the cost of and affect our ability to refinance, secure or issue future borrowings on terms favorable to us, or at all. In addition, rising interest rates may affect our ability to develop, acquire or dispose of real estate at terms favorable to us.If We Are Unable to Obtain Tax-Exempt Financings, Our Interest Costs Would RiseWe regularly utilize tax-exempt financings and tax increment financings, which generally bear interest at rates below prevailing rates available through conventional taxable financing. Tax-exempt bonds or similar government subsidized financing may not continue to be available to us in the future, either for new development or acquisitions, or for the refinancing of outstanding debt. Our ability to obtain these financings or to refinance outstanding tax-exempt debt on favorable terms could significantly affect our ability to develop or acquire properties and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.Downgrades in Our Credit Rating Could Adversely Affect Our PerformanceWe are periodically rated by nationally recognized rating agencies. Any downgrades in our credit rating could impact our ability to borrow by increasing borrowing costs as well as limiting our access to capital. In addition, a downgrade could require us to post cash collateral and/or letters of credit to cover our self-insured property and liability insurance deductibles, surety bonds, energy contracts and hedge contracts, which would adversely affect our cash flow and liquidity.Our Business Will Be Adversely Impacted Should an Uninsured Loss, a Loss in Excess of Insurance Limits or a Delayed or Denied Insurance Claim OccurWe carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, flood, wind, earthquake and rental loss (and environmental insurance on certain locations) with respect to our properties within insured limits and policy specifications we believe are customary for similar properties. There are, however, specific types of potential losses, including environmental loss, loss from cyber crimes, loss resulting from the actual or alleged negligence of our employees relating to professional liability, or losses of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from wars, terrorism, hurricanes, wind, earthquakes or other natural disasters, that, in our judgment, cannot be purchased at a commercially viable cost or whereby such losses, if incurred, would exceed the insurance limits procured. In the event of an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance limits, or a failure by an insurer to meet its obligations under a policy, we could lose both our invested capital in, and anticipated profits from, the affected property and could be exposed to liabilities with respect to that which we thought we had adequate insurance to cover. Any such uninsured loss could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Under our current policies, which expire October 31, 2015, our properties are insured against acts of terrorism, subject to various limits, deductibles and exclusions for acts of war and terrorist acts involving biological, chemical and nuclear damage. Once these policies expire, we may not be able to obtain adequate terrorism coverage at a commercially reasonable cost. In addition, our insurers may not be able to maintain reinsurance sufficient to cover any losses we may incur as a result of terrorist acts. As a result, our insurers’ ability to provide future insurance for any damages we sustain as a result of a terrorist attack may be reduced or eliminated or may not be available at a commercially reasonable cost.Additionally, most of our current project mortgages require “all-risk”/“special form” property insurance, and we may be unable to continue to obtain such “all risk”/“special form” policies that will satisfy lender requirements. We are self-insured as to the first $500,000 of commercial general liability coverage per occurrence. We may incur losses that exceed this self-insurance.As a property developer, owner, and manager, we will likely experience property and liability claims and will reasonably seek the coverage of the insurance policies we have procured. There may be instances where there are severe and complex claims that can be prolonged and litigated and insurance recoveries may be delayed, partially delayed or ultimately denied in full. This delay or denial may have an adverse impact on our financial condition.17Table of ContentsWe also carry several other types of insurance policies that have various terms and limits where it is available at commercially reasonable terms and prices. However, these may not cover all claims, alleged claims, or actual losses that may potentially occur or are made by various parties against us.A Downgrade or Financial Failure of Our Insurance Carriers May Have an Adverse Impact on our Financial ConditionThe insurance carrier(s) we utilize have satisfactory financial ratings at the time the policies are placed and made effective based on various insurance carrier rating agencies commonly used in the insurance industry. However, these financial ratings may not remain satisfactory or constant throughout the policy period. There is a risk these financial ratings may be downgraded throughout the policy period or the insurance carrier(s) may experience a financial failure. A downgrade or financial failure of our insurance carrier(s) may result in their inability to pay current and future claims. This inability to pay claims may have an adverse impact on our financial condition. In addition, a downgrade or a financial failure of our insurance carrier(s) may cause our insurance renewal or replacement policy costs to increase.We May Be Adversely Impacted by Environmental MattersWe are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; and the health and safety of our employees. In some instances, federal, state and local laws require abatement or removal of specific hazardous materials such as asbestos-containing materials or lead-based paint, in the event of demolition, renovations, remodeling, damage or decay. Laws and regulations also impose specific worker protection and notification requirements and govern emissions of and exposure to hazardous or toxic substances, such as asbestos fibers in the air. We incur costs to comply with such laws and regulations, but we may not have been or may not be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations.Under certain environmental laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of the investigation, removal and remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at that property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Certain contamination is difficult to remediate fully and can lead to more costly design specifications, such as a requirement to install vapor barrier systems, or a limitation on the use of the property and could preclude development of a site at all. The presence of hazardous substances on a property could also result in personal injury, contribution or other claims by private parties. In addition, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes may also be liable for the costs of the investigation, removal and remediation of those wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, regardless of whether that facility is owned or operated by that person.We have invested, and will continue to invest in, properties that have been used for or are near properties that have had industrial purposes in the past. As a result, our properties are or may become contaminated with hazardous or toxic substances. We will incur costs to investigate and possibly to remediate those conditions and some contamination may remain in or under the properties even after such remediation. While we investigate these sites and work with all relevant governmental authorities to meet their standards given our intended use of the property, there may be new information identified in the future indicating there are additional unaddressed environmental impacts, there could be technical developments that will require new or different remedies to be undertaken in the future, and the regulatory standards imposed by governmental authorities could change in the future.As a result of the above, the value of our properties could decrease, our income from developed properties could decrease, our projects could be delayed, we could become obligated to third parties pursuant to indemnification agreements or guarantees, our expense to remediate or maintain the properties could increase, and our ability to successfully sell, rent or finance our properties could be adversely affected by environmental matters in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operation. We may incur losses related to environmental matters, including losses that may materially exceed any available insurance.18Table of ContentsThe Ratner, Miller and Shafran Families Own a Controlling Interest in the Company, and Those Interests May Differ from Other ShareholdersOur authorized common stock consists of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The economic rights of each class of common stock are identical, but the voting rights differ. The Class A common stock, voting as a separate class, is entitled to elect 25% of the members of our Board of Directors, while the Class B common stock, voting as a separate class, is entitled to elect the remaining members of our Board of Directors. On all other matters, the Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote together as a single class, with each share of our Class A common stock entitled to one vote per share and each share of Class B common stock entitled to ten votes per share. At January 30, 2015, members of the Ratner, Miller and Shafran families, which include members of our current board of directors and executive officers, owned 92.2% of the Class B common stock. RMS, Limited Partnership (“RMS LP”), which owned approximately 67.2% of the Class B common stock, is a limited partnership, comprised of interests of these families, with seven individual general partners, currently consisting of:•Samuel H. Miller, Co-Chairman Emeritus of our Board of Directors;•Charles A. Ratner, Chairman of our Board of Directors;•Ronald A. Ratner, Executive Vice President and a Director;•Brian J. Ratner, Executive Vice President and a Director;•Deborah Ratner Salzberg, Executive Vice President and a Director;•Joan K. Shafran; and•Abraham Miller.Charles A. Ratner, James A. Ratner, Executive Vice President, and Ronald A. Ratner are brothers. Albert B. Ratner, Co‑Chairman Emeritus of our Board of Directors, is the father of Brian J. Ratner and Deborah Ratner Salzberg and is first cousin to Charles A. Ratner, James A. Ratner, Ronald A. Ratner, Joan K. Shafran and Bruce C. Ratner, Executive Vice President and a Director. Samuel H. Miller was married to Ruth Ratner Miller (now deceased), a sister of Albert B. Ratner, and is the father of Abraham Miller. General partners holding 60% of the total voting power of RMS LP determine how to vote the Class B common stock held by RMS LP. No person may transfer his or her interest in the Class B common stock held by RMS LP without complying with various rights of first refusal.In addition, at January 30, 2015, members of these families collectively owned 5.6% of the Class A common stock. As a result of their ownership in Forest City, these family members and RMS LP have the ability to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and to control our management and policies. Generally, they may, without the consent of our other shareholders, determine the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and may also prevent or cause a change in control of Forest City.Even if these families or RMS LP reduce their level of ownership of Class B common stock below the level necessary to maintain a majority of the voting power, specific provisions of Ohio law and our Amended Articles of Incorporation may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or delaying or preventing a change in control or management of Forest City without the approval of these families or RMS LP.Our Directors and Executive Officers May Have Interests in Competing Properties, and We Do Not Have Non-Compete Agreements with Certain of Our Directors and Executive OfficersUnder our current policy, no director or executive officer, including any member of the Ratner, Miller and Shafran families, is allowed to invest in a competing real estate opportunity without first obtaining the approval of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We do not have non-compete agreements with any director or executive officer, other than Charles Ratner, James Ratner, Ronald Ratner, Bruce Ratner, David LaRue and Robert O’Brien. Upon leaving Forest City, any other director, officer or employee could compete with us. Notwithstanding our policy, we permit our principal shareholders who are officers and employees to develop, expand, operate or sell, independent of our business, certain commercial, industrial and residential properties they owned prior to the implementation of our policy. As a result of their ownership of these properties, a conflict of interest may arise between them and Forest City, which may not be resolved in our favor. The conflict may involve the development or expansion of properties that may compete with our properties and the solicitation of tenants to lease these properties.We are Subject to Recapture Risks Associated with Sale of Tax CreditsAs part of our financing strategy, we have financed several real estate projects through limited partnerships with investment partners. The investment partner, typically a large, sophisticated institution or corporate investor, invests cash in exchange for a limited partnership interest and special allocations of expenses and the majority of tax losses and credits associated with the project. These partnerships typically require us to indemnify, on an after-tax or “grossed up” basis, the investment partner against the failure to receive or the loss of allocated tax credits and tax losses.19Table of ContentsIf all necessary requirements for qualification for such tax credits are not met, our investment partners may not be able to receive expense allocations associated with these properties and we may be required to indemnify our investment partners on an after-tax basis for these amounts. Indemnification payments (if required) could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.The Recovery in the Housing Market May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Cash FlowsDespite positive signs indicating a recovery in the past year, the United States experienced a sustained downturn in the residential housing market during the latest recession that resulted in a pronounced national decline in both the demand for, and price of housing. Any further recovery in the housing market is expected to be slow. For our remaining active land project, Stapleton, we depend on homebuilders and buyers to continue buying our land inventory. Our residential land sales at Stapleton have remained steady and were not as negatively impacted by the recession as other residential land projects throughout the United States. However, if the national market does not fully recover, it may eventually have a more pronounced negative impact on Stapleton. We do not know how long it will take the national housing market to recover or if we will ever see a return to previous conditions. Our ability to sustain our historical sales levels of land at Stapleton depends in part on the continued strength of the local housing market. Our failure to successfully sell our land inventory on favorable terms would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows and could result in a write-down in the value of our land due to impairment. In addition, we have made certain interest-bearing advances to the Park Creek Metropolitan District (the “District”) for in-tract infrastructure at Stapleton. The District is obligated to repay the advances pursuant to various Reimbursement Agreements. The District intends to repay the advances from the future issuances of bonds, supported by the real estate tax base at Stapleton. If the future real estate tax base at Stapleton is not adequate to support the projected amount of future issuances of bonds to repay the advances, we may have to write-off some or all of the advances, which could be significant.Failure to Continue to Maintain Effective Internal Controls in Accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Ability to Ensure Timely and Reliable Financial ReportingSection 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) requires our management to evaluate the effectiveness of, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. The process of documenting, testing and evaluating our internal control over financial reporting is complex and time consuming. Due to this complexity and the time-consuming nature of the process, and because currently unforeseen events or circumstances beyond our control could arise, we may not be able to continue to comply fully in subsequent fiscal periods with Section 404 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404, which could adversely affect public confidence in our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data to ensure timely and reliable external financial reporting.Compliance or Failure to Comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Other Similar Laws Could Result in Substantial CostsThe Americans with Disabilities Act generally requires that public buildings, including office buildings, be made accessible to disabled persons. In the event that we are not in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the federal government could fine us or private parties could be awarded damages against us. If we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.We may also incur significant costs complying with other regulations. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. In addition, existing requirements may change and compliance with future requirements may require significant unanticipated expenditures that could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.Legislative and Regulatory Actions Taken Now or in the Future Could Adversely Affect Our BusinessThe latest recession has resulted in governmental regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. This increased scrutiny has resulted in unprecedented programs and actions targeted at restoring stability in the financial markets.In July 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted in part to impose significant investment restrictions and capital requirements on banking entities and other organizations in the financial services industry, which may result in such entities and organizations instituting more conservative practices with respect to financing instruments. While we do not operate in the financial services industry, the Dodd-Frank Act could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act cannot be assessed until all implementing regulations are released, the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect the cost, availability and terms of financial instruments, such as nonrecourse mortgage loans, interest rate swaps and other hedging instruments; further reduce our access to capital; and limit availability of favorable terms of financing from lenders. The European Union and other major governmental authorities have enacted, or are in the process of enacting, similar legislation which could have similar impacts on foreign investments.20Table of ContentsIn addition, U.S. Government, Federal Reserve, U.S. Treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. While we cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, such actions may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Changes in Federal, State or Local Tax Laws Could Adversely Affect Our BusinessFrom time to time, changes in federal, state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted. These changes could impact the rates paid for items such as income, real estate, sales or other taxes. A shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in which we operate may lead to an increase in the frequency and amounts of such changes. If such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets, equity or income. Such changes could also impact our tenants as well as individual customers of those tenants, which could impact our ability to lease space in our properties. This in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.Changes in Market Conditions Could Continue to Hurt the Market Price of Our Publicly Traded SecuritiesAt times, the stock market can experience volatile conditions resulting in substantial price and volume fluctuations often unrelated or disproportionate to the financial performance of companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. A decline in the price of our common stock could have an adverse effect on our business by reducing our ability to generate capital through sales of our common stock, subjecting us to further credit rating downgrades and, in the case of a substantial decline, increasing the risk of not satisfying the New York Stock Exchange’s continued listing standards.Inflation May Adversely Affect our Financial Condition and Results of OperationsIncreases in inflation at a rate higher than increases in rental income could have a negative impact on our operating margins and cash flows. In some circumstances, increases in operating expenses for commercial properties can be passed on to our tenants. However, some of our commercial leases contain clauses that may prevent us from easily passing on increases of operating expenses to the respective tenants.Cybersecurity Risks and Cyber Incidents Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Disrupt OperationsA cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. Our three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our tenants, and private data exposure. Our financial results may be negatively impacted by such an incident or resulting negative media attention.A cyber incident could:•Disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our tenants;•Result in misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants and/or missed reporting deadlines;•Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes;•Result in our inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased space;•Require significant management attention and resources to remedy and damages that result;•Subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties or termination of leases or other agreements; or•Damage our reputation among our tenants, investors and associates.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.