Item 1A. Risk Factors Lending and Capital Market Conditions May Negatively Impact Our Liquidity and Our Ability to Finance or Refinance Projects or Repay Our Debt Current conditions of the U.S. and global economy substantially lag pre-recession levels and continue to remain volatile. Ongoing economic conditions have negatively impacted the lending and capital markets, particularly for real estate. The capital markets have witnessed significant adverse conditions, including a substantial reduction in the availability of and access to capital. Financial institutions have significantly reduced their lending with an emphasis on lessening their exposure to real estate. Originations of new loans for commercial mortgage backed securities continue to improve, but are still limited as compared to pre-recession levels. Underwriting standards are being tightened with lenders requiring lower loan-to-values, increased debt service coverage levels and higher lender spreads. These market conditions, combined with the volatility in the financial markets, have made our ability to access capital challenging. We may not be able to obtain financings on terms comparable to those we secured prior to the economic downturn, and our financing costs may be significantly higher. These conditions have required us to curtail our investment in new development projects, which will negatively impact our growth. If these conditions do not continue to improve, we may be required to further curtail our development or expansion projects and potentially write down our investments in some projects. 9 The adverse market conditions also impact our ability to, and the cost at which we, refinance our debt and obtain renewals or replacement of credit enhancement devices, such as letters of credit. While some of our current financings have extension options, some of those are contingent upon pre-determined underwriting qualifications. We cannot assure you that a given project will meet the required conditions to qualify for such extensions. Our inability to extend, repay or refinance our debt when it becomes due, including upon a default or acceleration event, could result in foreclosure on the properties pledged as collateral, which could result in a loss of our investment. While we are working to refinance or extend our maturing debt obligations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on a timely basis. Moreover, we expect refinancing, when available, to occur on less favorable terms. Lenders in these market conditions will typically require a higher rate of interest, repayment of a portion of the outstanding principal or additional equity infusions to the project. Of our total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $6.7 billion at January 31, 2012, a significant amount becomes due in each of the next three fiscal years. If these amounts cannot be refinanced, extended or repaid from other sources, such as sales of properties or new equity, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt. There is also refinancing risk with respect to our $450,000,000 Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as amended July 31, 2011 and Third Amended and Restated Guaranty of Payment of Debt as amended July 31, 2011 (collectively, the “Credit Facility”), which is due March 30, 2014 and provides for one 12-month extension option subject to certain conditions, and our senior debt, as we have limited sources to fund such repayment. Our total outstanding debt includes credit enhanced mortgage debt we have obtained for a number of our properties to back the bonds that are issued by a government authority and then remarketed to the public. Generally, the credit enhancement, such as a letter of credit, expires prior to the terms of the underlying mortgage debt and must be renewed or replaced to prevent acceleration of the underlying mortgage debt. We treat credit enhanced debt as maturing in the year the credit enhancement expires. However, if the credit enhancement is drawn upon due to the inability to remarket the bonds due to reasons including but not limited to market dislocation or a downgrade in the credit rating of the credit enhancer, not only would the bonds incur additional interest expense, but the debt maturity could accelerate to as early as 90 days after the acceleration occurs. With the turmoil in the lending and capital markets, a number of financial institutions have sought federal assistance or failed. The failure of these financial institutions has reduced the number of lenders willing to lend to commercial real estate entities and may hinder our ability to access capital. In the event of a failure of a lender or counterparty to a financial contract, obligations under the financial contract might not be honored and many forms of assets may be at risk and may not be fully returned to us. Should a financial institution, particularly a construction lender, fail to fund its committed amounts when contractually obligated, our ability to meet our obligations and complete projects could be adversely impacted. The Ownership, Development and Management of Real Estate is Exceptionally Challenging in the Current Economic Environment and We Do Not Anticipate Meaningful Improvement in the Near Term The current economic environment has significantly impacted the real estate industry. Unemployment remains at high levels and consumer confidence, while improving, remains low, putting downward pressure on retail sales. Commercial tenants are experiencing financial pressure and are continuing to place demands on landlords to provide rent concessions. The financial hardships on some tenants are so severe that they are leaving the market entirely or declaring bankruptcy, creating increased vacancy rates in commercial properties. The tenants with good financial condition are considering offers from competing projects and are waiting for the best possible deal before committing. The stress currently experienced by the real estate industry is particularly evident in our development projects. Projects that had good demographics and strong retailer interest to support a retail development when we began construction are experiencing leasing difficulty. When the financial markets began experiencing volatility in the second half of 2008 and the economy entered a recession, we experienced a corresponding volatility in retailer interest for our projects. Retailers continue to express interest in the projects, but are reluctant to commit to new stores in the current economic environment. As a result of this difficult environment, we have delayed anticipated openings, reduced anticipated rents and incurred additional carrying costs, all resulting in an adverse impact on our business. If we are unable to or decide not to proceed with certain projects, we could incur write-offs, some of which could be substantial, which would have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Until the economy, in general, and the real estate industry in particular, experience sustained improvement, fundamentals for the development and management of real estate will remain weak and we will continue to operate in a difficult environment with no near-term expectation of improvement. We Are Subject to Risks Associated with Investments in Real Estate The value of, and our income from, our properties may decline due to developments that adversely affect real estate generally and those developments that are specific to our properties. General factors that may adversely affect our real estate portfolios if they were to occur or continue include: • Increases in interest rates; • The availability of financing, including refinancing or extensions of our nonrecourse mortgage debt maturities, on acceptable terms, or at all; 10 • A decline in the economic conditions at the national, regional or local levels, particularly a decline in one or more of our primary markets; • Decreases in rental rates; • An increase in competition for tenants and customers or a decrease in demand by tenants and customers; • The financial condition of tenants, including the extent of bankruptcies and defaults; • An increase in supply or decrease in demand of our property types in our primary markets; • Declines in consumer confidence and spending during an economic recession that adversely affect our revenue from our retail centers; • Lingering declines in housing markets that adversely affect our revenue from our ongoing land segment and our ability to strategically reposition land held for divestiture; • The adoption on the national, state or local level of more restrictive laws and governmental regulations, including more restrictive zoning, land use or environmental regulations and increased real estate taxes; and • Opposition from local community or political groups with respect to the development, construction or operations at a particular site. In addition, there are factors that may adversely affect the value of specific operating properties or result in reduced income or unexpected expenses. As a result, we may not achieve our projected returns on the properties and we could lose some or all of our investments in those properties. Those operational factors include: • Adverse changes in the perceptions of prospective tenants or purchasers of the attractiveness of the property; • Our inability to provide adequate management and maintenance; • The investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials or toxic substances at a site; • Our inability to collect rent or other receivables; • Vacancies and other changes in rental rates; • An increase in operating costs that cannot be passed through to tenants; • Introduction of a competitor’s property in or in close proximity to one of our current markets; • Underinsured or uninsured natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods or hurricanes; and • Our inability to obtain adequate insurance. We Are Subject to Real Estate Development Risks In addition to the risks described above, which could also adversely impact our development projects, our development projects are subject to significant risks relating to our ability to complete our projects on time and on budget. Factors that may result in a development project exceeding budget, being delayed or being prevented from completion include: • An inability to secure sufficient financing on favorable terms, or at all, including an inability to refinance or extend construction loans; • Construction delays or cost overruns, either of which may increase project development costs; • An increase in commodity costs; • An inability to obtain zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • An inability to secure tenants or anchors necessary to support the project; • Failure to achieve or sustain anticipated occupancy or sales levels; and • Threatened or pending litigation. 11 Some of these development risks have been magnified given current adverse industry and market conditions. See also “Lending and Capital Market Conditions May Negatively Impact Our Liquidity and Our Ability to Finance or Refinance Projects or Repay Our Debt” and “The Ownership, Development and Management of Real Estate is Exceptionally Challenging in the Current Economic Environment and We Do Not Anticipate Meaningful Improvement in the Near Term” above. If any of these events occur, we may not achieve our projected returns on properties under development and we could lose some or all of our investments in those properties. In addition, the lead time required to develop, construct and lease-up a development property has substantially increased, which could adversely impact our projected returns or result in a termination of the development project. In the past, we have elected not to proceed, or have been prevented from proceeding, with certain development projects, and we anticipate that this may occur again. In addition, development projects may be delayed or terminated because a project partner or prospective anchor withdraws or a third party challenges our entitlements or public financing. We periodically serve as either the construction manager or the general contractor for our development projects. The construction of real estate projects entails unique risks, including risks that the project will fail to conform to building plans, specifications and timetables. These failures could be caused by labor strikes, weather, government regulations and other conditions beyond our control. In addition, we may become liable for injuries and accidents occurring during the construction process that are underinsured. In the construction of new projects, we generally guarantee the construction loan lender the lien-free completion of the project. This guaranty is recourse to us and places the risk of construction delays and cost overruns on us. In addition, from time to time, we guarantee our construction obligations to major tenants and public agencies. These types of guarantees are released upon completion of the project, as defined. We may have significant expenditures in the future in order to comply with our lien-free completion obligations which could have an adverse impact on our cash flows. Examples of projects that face these and other development risks include the following: • Brooklyn Atlantic Yards. We are in the process of developing Brooklyn Atlantic Yards, which will cost approximately $4.9 billion over the anticipated construction and development period. This long-term mixed-use project in downtown Brooklyn is expected to feature a state-of-the-art sports and entertainment arena, the Barclays Center arena, for The Nets basketball team, a member of the NBA. The acquisition and development of Brooklyn Atlantic Yards has been formally approved by the required state governmental authorities and final documentation of the transactions was executed on December 23, 2009. Tax exempt financing for the arena also closed on December 23, 2009, the proceeds of which became available on May 12, 2010. We have commenced construction of the arena and related infrastructure as well as infrastructure related to other elements of the greater Atlantic Yards development project. As a result of ongoing litigation, this project has experienced delays and may continue to experience further delays. We do not expect ongoing litigation to delay the completion of the Barclays Center arena. There is also the potential for increased costs and further delays to the project as a result of (i) increasing construction costs, (ii) scarcity of labor and supplies, (iii) the unavailability of additional needed financing, (iv) our or our partners’ inability or failure to meet required equity contributions, (v) increasing rates for financing, (vi) loss of arena sponsorships and related revenues, (vii) our inability to meet certain agreed upon deadlines for the development of the project and (viii) other potential litigation seeking to enjoin or prevent the project or litigation for which there may not be insurance coverage. The development of Brooklyn Atlantic Yards is being done in connection with the proposed move of The Nets to the planned arena, the timing of which is subject to delays. The arena itself (and its plans) along with any movement of the team is subject to formal approval by the NBA, which we may not receive. In addition, as applicable contractual and other deadlines and decision points approach, we could have less time and flexibility to plan and implement our responses to these or other risks to the extent that any of them may actually arise. If any of the foregoing risks were to occur we may: (i) not be able to develop Brooklyn Atlantic Yards to the extent intended or at all resulting in a potential write-off of our investment, (ii) be required to pay the City and/or State of New York liquidated damages for failure to meet certain agreed upon project deadlines, and (iii) be in default of our non-recourse mortgages on the project. The exposure to loss on this investment is approximately $645 million, excluding any potential write-offs for the arena or any liquidated damages described in (ii) of this paragraph, and could have a significant, material adverse effect on our business, cash flows and results of operations. Even if we were able to continue with the development, or a portion thereof, we would likely not be able to do so as quickly as originally planned, would be likely to incur additional costs and may need to write-off a portion of the development. • Westchester’s Ridge Hill. Retail leasing at our Westchester’s Ridge Hill development project in Westchester County, New York has progressed slowly. Currently, the center is 59% leased. Portions of the retail center have been open since May 2011; however; future phases are currently under construction and the entire project is subject to a completion guaranty. The projected phased opening dates may be impacted by the final outcome of our leasing effort which in turn could increase our equity requirements into this project. 12 Vacancies in Our Properties May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Cash Flows Our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to continue leasing a significant portion of our commercial and residential real estate portfolio. We depend on commercial and residential tenants in order to collect rents and other charges. The current economic downturn has impacted our tenants on many levels. The downturn has been particularly hard on commercial retail tenants, many of whom have announced store closings and scaled backed growth plans. If we are unable to sustain historical occupancy levels in our real estate portfolio, our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to sustain our current and historical occupancy levels also depends on many other factors that are discussed elsewhere in this section. The Strategic Decision to Reposition or Divest Portions of our Land Business Has and May Continue to Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Cash Flows On January 31, 2012, we made a strategic decision to reposition or divest portions of our traditional land business. As a result of this decision, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of approximately $154,000,000 during the year ended January 31, 2012. These residential development land projects, which are at various stages of development, vary in size and are located throughout the United States. The ultimate disposition of these land projects depends on various factors, including the demand for, and prices of residential land developments. If we are unable to dispose of these land projects at values acceptable to us in a reasonable period of time or at all, we may incur further impairment charges and selling costs or incur additional carrying costs related to these land projects. The strategic decision could adversely affect our ability to forge business relationships with certain governments, communities, partners and contractors in the future. The Downturn in the Housing Market May Continue to Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Cash Flows The United States has experienced a sustained downturn in the residential real estate markets, resulting in a decline in both the demand for, and price of, housing. For our land projects that we plan to retain, we depend on homebuilders and condominium builders and buyers, which have been significantly and adversely impacted by the housing downturn, to continue buying our land held for sale. We do not know how long the downturn in the housing market will last or if we will ever see a return to previous conditions. Our ability to sustain our historical sales levels of land depends in part on the strength of the housing market and will suffer until conditions improve. Our failure to successfully sell our land held for sale on favorable terms would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows and could result in a write-down in the value of our land due to impairment. Our Properties and Businesses Face Significant Competition The real estate industry is highly competitive in many of the markets in which we operate. Competition could over-saturate any market, as a result of which we may not have sufficient cash to meet the nonrecourse debt service requirements on certain of our properties. Although we may attempt to negotiate a restructuring with the mortgagee, we may not be successful, particularly in light of current credit markets, which could cause a property to be transferred to the mortgagee. There are numerous other developers, managers and owners of commercial and residential real estate and undeveloped land that compete with us nationally, regionally and/or locally, some of whom have greater financial resources and market share than us. They compete with us for management and leasing opportunities, land for development, properties for acquisition and disposition, and for anchor stores and tenants for properties. We may not be able to successfully compete in these areas. If our competitors prevent us from realizing our real estate objectives, the operating performance may fall short of expectations and adversely affect our financial performance. Tenants at our retail properties face continual competition in attracting customers from retailers at other shopping centers, catalogue companies, online merchants, warehouse stores, large discounters, outlet malls, wholesale clubs, direct mail and telemarketers. Our competitors and those of our tenants could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space in our properties and on the rents we can charge or the concessions we can grant. This in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, and could affect the realizable value of our assets upon sale. We May Be Unable to Sell Properties to Avoid Losses or to Reposition Our Portfolio Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may be unable to dispose of underperforming properties and may be unable to reposition our portfolio in response to changes in national, regional or local real estate markets, including the strategic repositioning or divestment of portions of our land segment. In addition, potential buyers may be unable to secure financing which could negatively impact our ability to dispose of our properties. As a result, we may incur operating losses from some of our properties and may have to write-down the value of some properties due to impairment. 13 Our Results of Operations and Cash Flows May Be Adversely Affected by Tenant Defaults or Bankruptcy Our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants are unable to meet their obligations or do not renew their leases, or if we are unable to lease a significant amount of space on economically favorable terms. In the event of a default by a tenant, we may experience delays in payments and incur substantial costs in recovering our losses. In addition, our ability to collect rents and other charges will be even more difficult if the tenant is bankrupt or insolvent. While our tenants have from time to time filed for bankruptcy or been involved in insolvency proceedings, there have been an increased number of bankruptcies with the most recent recession. We may be required to expense costs associated with leases of bankrupt tenants and may not be able to replace future rents for tenant space rejected in bankruptcy proceedings which could adversely affect our properties. The current bankruptcies of some of our tenants, and the potential bankruptcies of other tenants in the future could make it difficult for us to enforce our rights as lessor and protect our investment. Based on tenants with net base rent of greater than 2% of total net base rent as of January 31, 2012, our five largest office tenants by leased square feet are the City of New York, Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., U.S. Government, WellPoint, Inc. and JP Morgan Chase & Co. Given our large concentration of office space in New York City, we may be adversely affected by the consolidation or failure of certain financial institutions. As of January 31, 2012, our five largest retail tenants by leased square feet are Bass Pro Shops, Inc., Regal Entertainment Group, AMC Entertainment, Inc., TJX Companies and The Gap. An event of default or bankruptcy of one of our largest tenants would increase the adverse impact on us. We May Be Negatively Impacted by the Consolidation or Closing of Anchor Stores Our retail centers are generally anchored by department stores or other “big box” tenants. We could be adversely affected if one or more of these anchor stores were to consolidate, close or enter into bankruptcy. Given the current economic environment for retailers, we are at a heightened risk that an anchor store could close or enter into bankruptcy. Although non-tenant anchors generally do not pay us rent, they typically contribute towards common area maintenance and other expenses. Even if we own the anchor space, we may be unable to re-lease this area or to re-lease it on comparable terms. The loss of these revenues could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Further, the temporary or permanent loss of any anchor likely would reduce customer traffic in the retail center, which could lead to decreased sales at other retail stores. Rents obtained from other tenants may be adversely impacted as a result of co-tenancy clauses in their leases. One or more of these factors could cause the retail center to fail to meet its debt service requirements. The consolidation of anchor stores may also negatively affect current and future development projects. We May Be Negatively Impacted by International Activities While our international activities are currently limited in scope and generally focused on evaluating various international opportunities, we may expand our international efforts subjecting us to risks that could have an adverse effect on the projected returns on the international projects or our overall results of operations. We have limited experience in dealing with foreign economies or cultures, changes in political environments or changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies. In addition, international activities would subject us to a wide variety of local, federal and international laws and regulations governing these foreign properties and business activities within the foreign markets with which we have little or no prior experience including laws related to anti-corruption and anti-bribery. We may experience difficulties in managing international properties, including the ability to successfully integrate these properties into our business operations and the ambiguities that arise when dealing with foreign cultures. Each of these factors may adversely affect our projected returns on foreign investments, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Terrorist Attacks and Other Armed Conflicts May Adversely Affect Our Business We have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including New York City, Philadelphia, Boston, the Greater Washington D.C. metropolitan area, Denver, Dallas, Chicago, Los Angeles and the Greater San Francisco metropolitan area, which face a heightened risk related to terrorism. Some tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States. This could result in a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. In addition, properties in our real estate portfolio could be directly impacted by future terrorist attacks which could cause the value of our property and the level of our revenues to significantly decline. Future terrorist activity, related armed conflicts or prolonged or increased tensions in the Middle East could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease and adversely affect mall traffic. Additionally, future terrorist attacks could increase volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our revenues, costs and operating results. 14 The Investment in a Professional Sports Franchise Involves Certain Risks and Future Losses Are Expected for The Nets On August 16, 2004, we purchased a legal ownership interest in The Nets. The purchase of the interest in The Nets was the first step in our efforts to pursue development projects at Brooklyn Atlantic Yards. For a more thorough discussion of the risks associated with the Brooklyn Atlantic Yards project see “We Are Subject to Real Estate Developments Risks.” On May 12, 2010, we, through our consolidated subsidiary NS&E, closed on a purchase agreement with the MP Entities. The transaction resulted in a change of controlling ownership interest in The Nets. Following the transaction with the MP Entities, NS&E retained a 20% non-controlling ownership of The Nets. As we have a 62% ownership interest in NS&E, our resulting ownership interest in The Nets after the transaction is approximately 12%. The Nets are currently operating at a loss and are projected to continue to operate at a loss at least as long as they remain in New Jersey. Such operating losses will need to be funded by the contribution of equity. Even when The Nets are able to relocate to Brooklyn, New York, there can be no assurance that The Nets will be profitable in the future. Losses are currently allocated to each member of the limited liability company that owns The Nets based on an analysis of the respective member’s claim on the net book equity assuming a liquidation at book value at the end of each accounting period without regard to unrealized appreciation (if any) in the fair value of The Nets. The operating agreement with the MP Entities required them to fund The Nets operating needs up to $60,000,000. The MP Entities met their $60,000,000 funding commitment during the three months ended July 31, 2011. As a result, we are, through our investment in NS&E, required to fund 100% of The Nets operating needs as defined, until the arena is complete and open, which is expected to be during the three months ended October 31, 2012. Therefore, losses allocated to us have exceeded and may continue to exceed our legal ownership interest and may be significant. Our investment in The Nets is subject to a number of operational risks, including risks associated with operating conditions, competitive factors, economic conditions and industry conditions. If The Nets are not able to successfully manage the following operational risks, The Nets may incur additional operating losses: • Competition with other major league sports, college athletics and other sports-related and non sports-related entertainment; • Dependence on competitive success of The Nets; • Fluctuations in the amount of revenues from advertising, sponsorships, concessions, merchandise, parking and season and other ticket sales, which are tied to the popularity and success of The Nets and general economic conditions; • Uncertainties of increases in players’ salaries; • Risk of injuries to key players; • Dependence on talented players; • Uncertainties relating to labor relations in professional sports, including the expiration of the NBA’s current collective bargaining agreement, or a player or management initiated stoppage after such expiration; and • Dependence on television and cable network, radio and other media contracts. Our High Debt Leverage May Prevent Us from Responding to Changing Business and Economic Conditions Our high degree of debt leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. We have a high ratio of debt (consisting of nonrecourse mortgage debt, a revolving credit facility and senior and subordinated debt) to total market capitalization. This ratio was approximately 75.1%, and 74.4% at January 31, 2012 and January 31, 2011, respectively, based on our long-term debt outstanding at that date and the market value of our outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Our high leverage may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes and may make us more vulnerable to a prolonged downturn in the economy. Nonrecourse mortgage debt is collateralized by individual completed rental properties, projects under development and undeveloped land. We do not expect to repay a substantial amount of the principal of our outstanding debt prior to maturity or to have available funds from operations sufficient to repay this debt at maturity. As a result, it will be necessary for us to refinance our debt through new debt financings or through equity offerings. If interest rates are higher at the time of refinancing, our interest expense would increase, which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Cash flows and our liquidity would also be adversely affected if we are required to repay a portion of the outstanding principal or contribute additional equity to obtain the refinancing. In addition, in the event we were unable to secure refinancing on acceptable terms, we might be forced to sell properties on unfavorable terms, which could result in the recognition of losses and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we were unable to make the required payments on any debt collateralized by a mortgage on one of our properties or to refinance that debt when it comes due, the mortgage lender could take that property through foreclosure and, as a result, we could lose income and asset value as well harm our Company reputation. 15 Our Corporate Debt Covenants Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition We have guaranteed the obligations of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Forest City Rental Properties Corporation, or FCRPC, under the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility imposes a number of restrictive covenants on us, including a prohibition on certain consolidations and mergers, limitations on the amount of debt, guarantees and property liens that we may incur, restrictions on the pledging of ownership interests in subsidiaries, limitations on the use of cash sources and limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock. The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a specified minimum liquidity, debt service and cash flow coverage ratios and consolidated shareholders’ equity. The indentures under which our senior and subordinated debt is issued also contain certain restrictive covenants, including, among other things, limitations on our ability to incur debt, pay dividends, acquire our common or preferred stock, permit liens on our properties or dispose of assets. While we are in compliance with all of our covenants at January 31, 2012, we cannot guarantee our future compliance with any of the covenants. The failure to comply with any of our financial or non-financial covenants could result in an event of default and accelerate some or all of our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our ability to comply with these covenants will depend upon our future economic performance. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be desirable or advantageous to us. We Are Subject to Risks Associated With Hedging Agreements We will often enter into interest rate swap agreements and other interest rate hedging contracts, including caps and floors to mitigate or reduce our exposure to interest rate volatility or to satisfy lender requirements. While these agreements may help reduce our exposure to interest rate volatility, they also expose us to additional risks, including a risk that the counterparties will not perform. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the hedging agreement will qualify for hedge accounting or that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations. Should we desire to terminate a hedging agreement, there could be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our initial obligation under the hedging agreement. When a hedging agreement is required under the terms of a mortgage loan, it is often a condition that the hedge counterparty agree to certain conditions which include, but are not limited to, maintaining a specified credit rating. With the current volatility in the financial markets there is a reduced pool of eligible counterparties that can meet or are willing to agree to the required conditions which has resulted in an increased cost for hedging agreements. This could make it difficult to enter into hedging agreements in the future. Additionally, if the counterparty failed to satisfy any of the required conditions and we were unable to renegotiate the required conditions with the lender or find an alternative counterparty for such hedging agreements, we could be in default under the loan and the lender could take that property through foreclosure. Our bonds that are structured in a total rate of return swap arrangement (“TRS”) have maturities reflected in the year the bond matures as opposed to the TRS maturity date, which is likely to be earlier. Throughout the life of the TRS, if the property is not performing at designated levels or due to changes in market conditions, the property may be obligated to make collateral deposits with the counterparty. At expiration or termination of the TRS arrangement, the property must pay or is entitled to the difference, if any, between the fair market value of the bond and par. If the property does not post collateral or make the counterparty whole at expiration, the counterparty could foreclose on the property. Any Rise in Interest Rates Will Increase Our Interest Costs Including the effect of the protection provided by the interest rate swaps, caps and long-term contracts in place as of January 31, 2012, a 100 basis point increase in taxable interest rates (including properties accounted for under the equity method, corporate debt and the effect of interest rate floors) would increase the annual pre-tax interest cost for the next 12 months of our variable-rate debt by approximately $11,321,000 at January 31, 2012. Although tax-exempt rates generally move in an amount that is smaller than corresponding changes in taxable interest rates, a 100 basis point increase in tax-exempt rates (including properties accounted for under the equity method) would increase the annual pre-tax interest cost for the next 12 months of our tax-exempt variable-rate debt by approximately $6,789,000 at January 31, 2012. This analysis includes a portion of our taxable and tax-exempt variable-rate debt related to construction loans for which the interest expense is capitalized. For variable rate bonds, during times of market illiquidity, a premium interest rate could be charged on the bonds to successfully market them which would result in even higher interest rates. If We Are Unable to Obtain Tax-Exempt Financings, Our Interest Costs Would Rise We regularly utilize tax-exempt financings and tax increment financings, which generally bear interest at rates below prevailing rates available through conventional taxable financing. We cannot assure you that tax-exempt bonds or similar government subsidized financing will continue to be available to us in the future, either for new development or acquisitions, or for the refinancing of outstanding debt. Our ability to obtain these financings or to refinance outstanding tax-exempt debt on favorable terms could significantly affect our ability to develop or acquire properties and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 16 Downgrades in Our Credit Rating Could Adversely Affect Our Performance We are periodically rated by nationally recognized rating agencies. Any downgrades in our credit rating could impact our ability to borrow by increasing borrowing costs as well as limiting our access to capital. In addition, a downgrade could require us to post cash collateral and/or letters of credit to cover our self-insured property and liability insurance deductibles, surety bonds, energy contracts and hedge contracts which would adversely affect our cash flow and liquidity. Our Business Will Be Adversely Impacted Should an Uninsured Loss, a Loss in Excess of Insurance Limits or a Delayed or Denied Insurance Claim Occur We carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, flood, wind, earthquake and rental loss (and environmental insurance on certain locations) with respect to our properties within insured limits and policy specifications that we believe are customary for similar properties. There are, however, specific types of potential losses, including environmental loss or losses of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from wars, terrorism, hurricanes, wind, earthquakes or other natural disasters, that in our judgment, cannot be purchased at a commercially viable cost or whereby such losses, if incurred, would exceed the insurance limits procured. In the event of an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance limits, or a failure by an insurer to meet its obligations under a policy, we could lose both our invested capital in, and anticipated profits from, the affected property and could be exposed to liabilities with respect to that which we thought we had adequate insurance to cover. Any such uninsured loss could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Under our current policies, which expire October 31, 2012, our properties are insured against acts of terrorism, subject to various limits, deductibles and exclusions for acts of war and terrorist acts involving biological, chemical and nuclear damage. Once these policies expire, we may not be able to obtain adequate terrorism coverage at a commercially reasonable cost. In addition, our insurers may not be able to maintain reinsurance sufficient to cover any losses we may incur as a result of terrorist acts. As a result, our insurers’ ability to provide future insurance for any damages that we sustain as a result of a terrorist attack may be reduced or eliminated. Additionally, most of our current project mortgages require “all-risk”/”special form” property insurance, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to obtain such “all risk”/”special form” policies that will satisfy lender requirements. We are self-insured as to the first $500,000 of commercial general liability coverage per occurrence. Further, for the first $250,000 of property damage coverage per occurrence, we utilize a wholly-owned captive insurance company and self-insurance. The wholly-owned captive insurance company is licensed, regulated and capitalized in accordance with state of Arizona statutes. The wholly-owned captive insurance company is not utilized to mitigate percentage deductibles for Florida, Hawaii, and scheduled tier one county wind property damage claims by named storms, California earthquake property damage claims, and Flood Zone A and V property claims. These percentage deductibles are self-insured. While we reasonably believe that our self-insurance and wholly-owned captive insurance company reserves are adequate for commercial property damage claims and commercial general liability claims, we cannot assure you that we will not incur losses that exceed these self- insurance and wholly-owned captive reserves. As a property developer, owner, and manager, we will likely experience property and liability claims and will reasonably seek the coverage of the insurance policies that we have procured. There may be instances where there are severe claims that can be prolonged and insurance recoveries may be delayed or ultimately denied. This delay or denial may have an adverse impact on our financial condition. A Downgrade or Financial Failure of Our Insurance Carriers May Have an Adverse Impact on our Financial Condition The insurance carrier(s) that we utilize have satisfactory financial ratings at the time the policies are placed and made effective based on various insurance carrier rating agencies commonly used in the insurance industry. However, we cannot assure you that these financial ratings will remain satisfactory or constant throughout the policy period. There is a risk that these financial ratings may be downgraded throughout the policy period or that the insurance carrier(s) may experience a financial failure. A downgrade or financial failure of our insurance carrier(s) may result in their inability to pay current and future claims. This inability to pay claims may have an adverse impact on our financial condition. In addition, a downgrade or a financial failure of our insurance carrier(s) may cause our insurance renewal or replacement policy costs to increase. We May Be Adversely Impacted by Environmental Matters We are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; and the health and safety of our employees. In some instances, federal, state and local laws require abatement or removal of specific hazardous materials such as asbestos-containing materials or lead-based paint, in the event of demolition, renovations, remodeling, damage or decay. Laws and regulations also impose specific worker protection and notification requirements and govern emissions of and exposure to hazardous or toxic substances, such as asbestos fibers in the air. We incur costs to comply with such laws and regulations, but we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. 17 Under certain environmental laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of the investigation, removal and remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at that property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Certain contamination is difficult to remediate fully and can lead to more costly design specifications, such as a requirement to install vapor barrier systems, or a limitation on the use of the property and could preclude development of a site at all. The presence of hazardous substances on a property could also result in personal injury, contribution or other claims by private parties. In addition, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes may also be liable for the costs of the investigation, removal and remediation of those wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, regardless of whether that facility is owned or operated by that person. We have invested, and will in the future, invest in properties that are or have been used for or are near properties that have had industrial purposes in the past. As a result, our properties are or may become contaminated with hazardous or toxic substances. We will incur costs to investigate and possibly to remediate those conditions and it is possible that some contamination will remain in or under the properties even after such remediation. While we investigate these sites and work with all relevant governmental authorities to meet their standards given our intended use of the property, it is possible that there will be new information identified in the future that indicates there are additional unaddressed environmental impacts, there could be technical developments that will require new or different remedies to be undertaken in the future, and the regulatory standards imposed by governmental authorities could change in the future. As a result of the above, the value of our properties could decrease, our income from developed properties could decrease, our projects could be delayed, we could become obligated to third parties pursuant to indemnification agreements or guarantees, our expense to remediate or maintain the properties could increase, and our ability to successfully sell, rent or finance our properties could be adversely affected by environmental matters in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operation. While we maintain insurance for certain environmental matters, we cannot assure you that we will not incur losses related to environmental matters, including losses that may materially exceed any available insurance. The Ratner, Miller and Shafran Families Own a Controlling Interest in the Company, and Those Interests May Differ from Other Shareholders Our authorized common stock consists of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The economic rights of each Class of common stock are identical, but the voting rights differ. The Class A common stock, voting as a separate class, is entitled to elect 25% of the members of our Board of Directors, while the Class B common stock, voting as a separate class, is entitled to elect the remaining members of our Board of Directors. On all other matters, the Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote together as a single class, with each share of our Class A common stock entitled to one vote per share and each share of Class B common stock entitled to ten votes per share. At February 29, 2012, members of the Ratner, Miller and Shafran families, which include members of our current board of directors and executive officers, owned 89.0% of the Class B common stock. RMS, Limited Partnership (“RMS LP”) which owned approximately 88.5% of the Class B common stock is a limited partnership, comprised of interests of these families, with seven individual general partners, currently consisting of: • Samuel H. Miller, Co-Chairman Emeritus of our Board of Directors; • Charles A. Ratner, Chairman of our Board of Directors; • Ronald A. Ratner, Executive Vice President of Forest City and a Director; • Brian J. Ratner, Executive Vice President of Forest City and a Director; • Deborah Ratner Salzberg, President of Forest City Washington, Inc., a subsidiary of Forest City, and a Director; • Joan K. Shafran, a Director; and • Abraham Miller. Charles A. Ratner, James A. Ratner, Executive Vice President of Forest City and a Director, and Ronald A. Ratner are brothers. Albert B. Ratner, Co-Chairman Emeritus of our Board of Directors, is the father of Brian J. Ratner and Deborah Ratner Salzberg and is first cousin to Charles A. Ratner, James A. Ratner, Ronald A. Ratner, Joan K. Shafran and Bruce C. Ratner, Executive Vice President of Forest City and a Director. Samuel H. Miller was married to Ruth Ratner Miller (now deceased), a sister of Albert B. Ratner, and is the father of Abraham Miller. General partners holding 60% of the total voting power of RMS LP determine how to vote the Class B common stock held by RMS LP. No person may transfer his or her interest in the Class B common stock held by RMS LP without complying with various rights of first refusal. 18 In addition, at February 29, 2012, members of these families collectively owned 8.8% of the Class A common stock. As a result of their ownership in Forest City, these family members and RMS LP have the ability to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and to control our management and policies. Generally, they may, without the consent of our other shareholders, determine the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and may also prevent or cause a change in control of Forest City. Even if these families or RMS LP reduce their level of ownership of Class B common stock below the level necessary to maintain a majority of the voting power, specific provisions of Ohio law and our Amended Articles of Incorporation may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or delaying or preventing a change in control or management of Forest City without the approval of these families or RMS LP. RMS Investment Corp. Provides Property Management and Leasing Services to Us and Is Controlled By Some of Our Affiliates We paid approximately $230,000 and $229,000 as total compensation during the years ended January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, to RMS Investment Corp. for property management and leasing services. RMS Investment Corp. is controlled by members of the Ratner, Miller and Shafran families, some of whom are our directors and executive officers. RMS Investment Corp. manages and provides leasing services to our Cleveland-area specialty retail center, Golden Gate, which has 361,000 square feet. The current rate of compensation for this management service is 4% of all rental income, plus a leasing fee of generally 3% to 4% of rental income of all new or renewed leases. Management believes these fees are comparable to those other management companies would charge to non-affiliated third parties. Our Directors and Executive Officers May Have Interests in Competing Properties, and We Do Not Have Non-Compete Agreements with Certain of Our Directors and Executive Officers Under our current policy, no director or executive officer, including any member of the Ratner, Miller and Shafran families, is allowed to invest in a competing real estate opportunity without first obtaining the approval of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We do not have non-compete agreements with any director or executive officer, other than Charles Ratner, James Ratner, Ronald Ratner, Bruce Ratner, David LaRue and Robert O’Brien. Upon leaving Forest City, any other director, officer or employee could compete with us. Notwithstanding our policy, we permit our principal shareholders who are officers and employees to develop, expand, operate or sell, independent of our business, certain commercial, industrial and residential properties that they owned prior to the implementation of our policy. As a result of their ownership of these properties, a conflict of interest may arise between them and Forest City, which may not be resolved in our favor. The conflict may involve the development or expansion of properties that may compete with our properties and the solicitation of tenants to lease these properties. We are Subject to Recapture Risks Associated with Sale of Tax Credits As part of our financing strategy, we have financed several real estate projects through limited partnerships with investment partners. The investment partner, typically a large, sophisticated institution or corporate investor, invests cash in exchange for a limited partnership interest and special allocations of expenses and the majority of tax losses and credits associated with the project. These partnerships typically require us to indemnify, on an after-tax or “grossed up” basis, the investment partner against the failure to receive or the loss of allocated tax credits and tax losses. We believe that all the necessary requirements for qualification for such tax credits have been and will be met and that our investment partners will be able to receive expense allocations associated with these properties. However, we cannot assure you that this will, in fact, be the case or that we will not be required to indemnify our investment partners on an after-tax basis for these amounts. Indemnification payments (if required) could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We Face Risks Associated with Developing and Managing Properties in Partnership with Others We use partnerships and limited liability companies, or LLCs, to finance, develop or manage some of our real estate investments. Acting through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we typically are a general partner or managing member in these partnerships or LLCs. There are, however, instances in which we do not control or even participate in management or day-to-day operations of these properties. The use of partnerships and LLCs involve special risks associated with the possibility that: • Another partner or member may have interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; • A general partner or managing member may take actions contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives with respect to our real estate investments; or • A partner or a member could experience financial difficulties that prevent it from fulfilling its financial or other responsibilities to the project or its lender or the other partners or members. 19 In the event any of our partners or members files for bankruptcy, we could be precluded from taking certain actions affecting our project without bankruptcy court approval, which could diminish our control over the project even if we were the general partner or managing member. In addition, if the bankruptcy court were to discharge the obligations of our partner or member, it could result in our ultimate liability for the project being greater than we would have otherwise been obligated for. To the extent we are a general partner, we may be exposed to unlimited liability, which may exceed our investment or equity in the partnership. If one of our subsidiaries is a general partner of a particular partnership it may be exposed to the same kind of unlimited liability. Failure to Continue to Maintain Effective Internal Controls in Accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Ability to Ensure Timely and Reliable Financial Reporting Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, requires our management to evaluate the effectiveness of, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. We will continue our ongoing process of testing and evaluating the effectiveness of, and remediating any issues identified related to, our internal control over financial reporting. The process of documenting, testing and evaluating our internal control over financial reporting is complex and time consuming. Due to this complexity and the time-consuming nature of the process and because currently unforeseen events or circumstances beyond our control could arise, we cannot assure you that we ultimately will be able to continue to comply fully in subsequent fiscal periods with Section 404 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404, which could adversely affect public confidence in our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data to ensure timely and reliable external financial reporting. Compliance or Failure to Comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Other Similar Laws Could Result in Substantial Costs The Americans with Disabilities Act generally requires that public buildings, including office buildings and hotels, be made accessible to disabled persons. In the event that we are not in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the federal government could fine us or private parties could be awarded damages against us. If we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We may also incur significant costs complying with other regulations. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with all of these regulatory requirements. However, existing requirements may change and compliance with future requirements may require significant unanticipated expenditures that could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Legislative and Regulatory Actions Taken Now or in the Future Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Current economic conditions have resulted in governmental regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. This increased scrutiny has resulted in unprecedented programs and actions targeted at restoring stability in the financial markets. In July 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (or the Dodd-Frank Act). The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted in part to impose significant investment restrictions and capital requirements on banking entities and other organizations in the financial services industry, which may result in such entities and organizations instituting more conservative practices with respect to financing instruments. While we do not operate in the financial services industry, the Dodd-Frank Act could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act cannot be assessed until all implementing regulations are released, the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect the cost, availability and terms of financial instruments, such as non-recourse mortgage loans, interest rate swaps and other hedging instruments; further reduce our access to capital; and limit availability of favorable terms of financing from lenders. The European Union and other major governmental authorities are in the process of enacting similar legislation which could have similar impacts on foreign investments. In addition, U.S. Government, Federal Reserve, U.S. Treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. While we cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, such actions may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Changes in Market Conditions Could Continue to Hurt the Market Price of Our Publicly Traded Securities The stock market has experienced volatile conditions, particularly with respect to companies in the real estate industry, resulting in substantial price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated or disproportionate to the financial performance of companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock regardless of our operating performance. A decline in the price of our Class A common stock could have an adverse effect on our business by reducing our ability to generate capital through sales of our Class A common stock, subjecting us to further credit rating downgrades and, in the case of a substantial decline, increasing the risk of not satisfying the New York Stock Exchange’s continued listing standards. Inflation May Adversely Affect our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Although inflation has not materially impacted our results of operations to date, increases in inflation at a rate higher than increases in rental income could have a negative impact on our operating margins and cash flows. In some circumstances, increases in operating expenses for commercial properties can be passed on to our tenants. However, some of our commercial leases contain clauses that may prevent us from easily passing on increases of operating expenses to the respective tenants. Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business and disrupt operations A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. Our three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our tenants, and private data exposure. We have implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks, but these measures, as well as our increased awareness of a risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 