ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in an industry which involves a number of significant risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The risks discussed herein and other risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company presently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before making an investment decision with respect to the Company’s securities. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces as described below and elsewhere. See “Item 1. Business” Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 18 Table of Contents We are Substantially Dependent on Sales of Our Two Principal Products. For the 2009 fiscal year, sales of Lexapro and Namenda accounted for 63% and 26%, respectively, of our net sales. Any unexpected negative development with respect to such products (for example, loss of market exclusivity or an unexpected safety or efficacy concern) would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. While the validity and enforceability of our patent covering escitalopram, the active ingredient in Lexapro, were upheld in September 2007 by decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, we are currently prosecuting patent infringement litigation against a generic manufacturer who is seeking FDA approval to market a generic equivalent to Lexapro. A bench trial in this litigation, originally scheduled to begin April 27, 2009, was adjourned until June 1, 2009. In addition, we have instituted patent infringement litigation against multiple generic manufacturers who are seeking FDA approval to market generic versions of Namenda. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. If We Are Unable to Successfully Develop or Commercialize New Products, Our Operating Results May Suffer. Our future results of operations will depend to a significant degree upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new products. New product development is subject to a great deal of uncertainty, risk and expense. Promising pharmaceutical candidates may fail at various stages of the research and development process, often after a great deal of financial and other resources have been invested in their exploration and development. Even where pharmaceutical development is successfully completed, a product may fail to reach the market or have limited commercial success because the safety and efficacy profile achieved during the course of development is not as favorable as originally anticipated or is viewed by the marketplace as less favorable in comparison to new and competing therapies which may become available during the lengthy period of drug development. The Company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. The Company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose patent protection or are displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short-term or long-term would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. 19 Table of Contents Regulatory Compliance Issues Could Materially Affect Our Financial Position and Results of Operations. The marketing and promotional practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with prescribers of pharmaceutical products and other healthcare decision makers, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities. Such regulation takes the form of explicit governmental regulation and guidance, as well as practices established by healthcare and industry codes of conduct. In addition, federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities actively seek to enforce such regulations and can assert both civil and criminal theories of enforcement not specifically prescribed by published regulations or standards and accordingly with little objective guidance to permit voluntary industry compliance. Such enforcement can include actions initially commenced by “whistleblowers” under the Federal False Claims Act which provides incentives to whistleblowers based upon penalties successfully imposed as a result of the investigation or related legal proceedings or settlements. There can be no assurance that the resolution of pending or future claims, as well as the resolution of private party (such as consumers or third-party payers) litigation which may be associated with any such claims or their resolution, will not entail material fines, penalties or settlement payments. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for information about pending government investigations and litigation concerning our marketing and promotional practices and certain third-party payor litigation pending against the Company. In addition, the manufacturing, testing, storage and shipment of pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and the failure to comply with regulatory standards can lead to product withdrawals or seizures or to delays in FDA approval of products pending resolution of such issues. Moreover, even when a manufacturer has fully complied with applicable regulatory standards, products manufactured and distributed may ultimately fail to comply with applicable specifications, leading to product withdrawals or recalls. Our Business Depends on Intellectual Property Protection. Our ability to generate the revenue necessary to support our investment in acquiring and developing new product opportunities, as well as the commitment of resources to successfully market our products, greatly depends on effective intellectual property protection to ensure we can take advantage of lawful market exclusivity. Manufacturers of generic products have strong incentives to challenge the patents which cover our principal products. While we believe that our patent portfolio, together with market exclusivity periods granted by the Hatch-Waxman Act, offers adequate exclusivity protection for our current products, there can be no assurance that some of our patents will not be determined to be invalid or unenforceable, resulting in unanticipated early generic competition for the affected product. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a description of pending patent litigation involving Lexapro and Namenda, our two principal products. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is possible that these agreements will be breached or that they will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. It is also possible that our trade secrets will become known or independently developed by our competitors. Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the Company’s sales of that product. Availability of generic substitutes for the Company’s drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the United States and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or propriety know-how, or enforce our patents, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. Our Business Model Currently Depends on the Successful In-Licensing or Acquisition of New Product Opportunities. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and launch new pharmaceutical products. Our pipeline of new products is currently dependent on the licensing and acquisition of new product opportunities. To successfully accomplish these transactions, we commit substantial effort and expense to seeking out, evaluating and negotiating collaboration arrangements and acquisitions. The competition for attractive product opportunities may require us to devote substantial resources to an opportunity with no assurance that such efforts will result in a commercially successful product. Our Business Could be Negatively Affected by the Performance of Our Collaboration Partners. Our principal products, as well as certain of our principal product development opportunities, involve strategic alliances with other companies. Our alliance partners typically possess significant patents or other technology which are licensed to us and remain significantly involved in product research and development activities and in the exclusive manufacture and supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients upon which our products are based. While some of our collaboration partners are large well-established companies, others are smaller companies, often in the “start-up” stage. A failure or inability of our partners to perform their collaboration obligations could materially negatively affect our operations or business plans. In addition, while our relationships with our strategic partners have been good, differences of opinion upon significant matters arise from time to time. Any such differences of opinion, as well as disputes or conflicting corporate priorities, could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefits of the alliance. Pharmaceutical Cost-Containment Initiatives May Negatively Affect Our Net Income. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 included a prescription drug benefit for Medicare participants. Companies that negotiate prices on behalf of Medicare drug plans will have a significant degree of purchasing power and we expect pricing pressure as a result. In addition, our net income continues to be impacted by cost-containment initiatives adopted by managed care organizations and pharmaceutical benefit managers which negotiate discounted prices from pharmaceutical manufacturers in order to secure placement on formularies adopted by such organizations or their health-plan or employer customers. Failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization of our products. We expect that competing healthcare reform proposals will continue to be introduced and debated. The adoption of any such proposal may entail new regulatory requirements and may affect the marketing of prescription drugs. We cannot predict the outcome or effect on the marketing of prescription drug products of the legislative and political process. We Face Substantial Competition from Other Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Generic Product Distributors. Our industry is characterized by significant technological innovation and change. Many of our competitors are conducting research and development activities in therapeutic areas served by our products and our product-development candidates. The introduction of novel therapies as alternatives to our products may negatively impact our revenues or reduce the value of specific product development programs. In addition, generic alternatives to branded products, including alternatives to brands of other manufacturers in therapeutic categories where we market products, may be preferred by doctors, patients or third-party payors. 21 Table of Contents Our Business, and in Particular the Treatment of CNS Disorders, Presents Risk of Product Liability Claims. As more fully discussed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”, we are subject to approximately 75 legal actions asserting product liability claims relating to the use of Celexa or Lexapro. These cases include claims for wrongful death from suicide or injury from suicide attempts while using Celexa or Lexapro as well as claims that Celexa or Lexapro caused birth defects or persistent pulmonary hypertension in newborns. We believe that suicide and related events are inherent in the symptoms and consequences of major depressive disorder and therefore these types of occurrences are not unexpected from patients who are being treated for such condition, including patients who may be using our products. While we believe there is no merit to the cases which have been brought against us, litigation is inherently subject to uncertainties and there can be no assurance that we will not be required to expend substantial amounts in the defense or resolution of some of these matters. The Effective Rate of Taxation upon Our Results of Operations is Dependent on Multi-National Tax Considerations. A portion of our earnings is taxed at more favorable rates applicable to the activities undertaken by our subsidiaries based or incorporated in the Republic of Ireland. Changes in tax laws or in their application or interpretation, such as to the transfer pricing between Forest’s non-U.S. operations and the U.S., could increase our effective tax rate and negatively affect our results of operations. Our transfer pricing is the subject of an ongoing audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (or IRS). In connection with such audit, the IRS has issued a Revenue Agent Report which seeks to assess approximately $206.7 million of additional corporation income tax with respect to the 2002 and 2003 fiscal years, excluding interest and penalties. We continue to disagree with the IRS position and have filed a formal written protest of the proposed adjustment. If the IRS prevails in a position that increases the U.S. tax liability in excess of established reserves, it is likely that the IRS could make similar claims for years subsequent to fiscal 2003 which could be material. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference herein. Many of Our Principal Products and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients are Only Available From a Single Manufacturing Source. As described immediately above, many of the proprietary active ingredients in our principal products are available to us only pursuant to contractual supply arrangements with our collaboration partners. In addition, our manufacturing facilities in the Republic of Ireland are the exclusive qualified manufacturing facilities for finished dosage forms of our principal products, including Lexapro and Namenda. Difficulties or delays in product manufacture, both within and outside of our control, or the inability to locate and qualify third party alternative sources, if necessary, in a timely manner, could lead to shortages or long-term product unavailability, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Table of Contents 