ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ITEM 4. MINE SAFTETY DISCLOSURES PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES EXHIBIT 10.14 EXHIBIT 21 EXHIBIT 23 EXHIBIT 31.1 EXHIBIT 31.2 EXHIBIT 32.1 EXHIBIT 32.2 EXHIBIT 101.INS EXHIBIT 101.SCH EXHIBIT 101.PRE EXHIBIT 101.CAL EXHIBIT 101.LAB EXHIBIT 101.DEF 3 PART I Item 1. Business General Forest Laboratories, Inc. and its subsidiaries (herein and referred to as “Forest,” “the Company,” “we,” or “us”) develop, manufacture and sell branded forms of ethical drug products most of which require a physician's prescription. Our most important products in the United States (U.S.) are marketed directly, or “detailed,” to physicians by our salesforces. We emphasize detailing to physicians those branded ethical drugs which we believe have the most benefit to patients and potential for growth. We also focus on the development and introduction of new products, including products developed in collaboration with licensing partners. Our products include those developed by us, those developed in conjunction with our partners and those acquired from other pharmaceutical companies and integrated into our marketing and distribution systems. We are a Delaware corporation organized in 1956, our principal executive offices are located at 909 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022 (telephone number (212) 421-7850) and our corporate website address is http://www.frx.com. We make all electronic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those Reports available on our corporate website free of charge as soon as practicable after filing with or furnishing to the SEC. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Except for the historical information contained herein, this report contains forward looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of predicting U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approvals, acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, challenges to our intellectual property, the impact of legislative and regulatory developments on the manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products and the uncertainty and timing of the development and launch of new pharmaceutical products. This report contains forward-looking statements that are based on Management’s current expectations, estimates, and projections. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this report, may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations, estimates, projections, forecasts and past results. No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate or projection contained in a forward-looking statement will be achieved or will not be affected by the factors cited above or other future events. Forest undertakes no obligation to publicly revise forward-looking statements in light of subsequent events or developments, and given the risks and uncertainties associated with them, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance upon them. 4 Table of Contents Developments The following is a summary of selected key developments during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, that affected or will affect our business, including developments regarding our marketed products and products in various stages of development. Linzess TM: In August 2012, we and our partner Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Ironwood) received FDA approval for Linzess (linaclotide) as a once-daily treatment for adult men and women suffering from irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) or chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC). Linzess is an agonist of the guanylate cyclase type-C receptor found in the intestine and acts by a mechanism distinct from previously developed products for IBS-C and CIC. Linzess is administered orally but acts locally in the intestine with no measurable systemic exposure at therapeutic doses and is intended for once-daily administration. Pursuant to our collaboration agreement with Ironwood, we paid Ironwood $85 million upon FDA approval. Linzess was formally launched, and became available to patients in the U.S., in December 2012 and achieved sales of $23.7 million in fiscal 2013. Under the terms of the agreement, we and Ironwood share equally all profits and losses from the development and commercialization of linaclotide in the U.S. In addition, we obtained exclusive rights to the linaclotide license in Canada and Mexico, for which we will pay Ironwood royalties based on net sales, subject to receiving regulatory approval. Linzess has been granted five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity that extends to 2017. Linzess is also protected by U.S. composition-of-matter and method-of-use patents that expire in 2024. A request for patent term extension (PTE) has been submitted to extend a composition-of-matter patent to 2026. IBS-C is a chronic functional gastrointestinal disorder that affects 13 million people in the U.S. IBS-C is characterized by recurring abdominal pain or discomfort, constipation, and bowel symptoms including hard or lumpy stools in more than 25% of bowel movements, and soft or watery stools in less than 25% of bowel movements. IBS-C can have an impact on daily living. There are currently few available therapies to treat this disorder. As many as 35 million Americans suffer from symptoms associated with CIC. Patients with CIC often experience infrequent bowel movements (less than three times per week) for at least three months, a sensation of incomplete evacuation, and hard stools. Tudorza TM Pressair TM: In July 2012, we and our partner Almirall, S.A. (Almirall) received FDA approval for Tudorza Pressair (aclidinium bromide inhalation powder), a long-acting antimuscarinic agent, for the long-term maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Tudorza was formally launched in December 2012 and achieved sales of $23.0 million in fiscal 2013. Tudorza is administered to patients using a novel state-of-the-art multi-dose dry powder inhaler. This inhaler was designed with a feedback system which, through a ‘colored control window’ and an audible click, helps confirm that the patient has inhaled correctly. It contains multiple doses of Tudorza, includes a visible dose-level indicator, and also incorporates safety features such as an anti-double dosing mechanism and an end-of-dose lock-out system to prevent use of an empty inhaler. We licensed the exclusive U.S. marketing rights to Tudorza from Almirall, a pharmaceutical company headquartered in Barcelona, Spain. We will be responsible for sales and marketing of Tudorza in the U.S. and Almirall has retained an option to co-promote the product in the U.S. in the future, while retaining commercialization rights for the rest of the world. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid Almirall $40 million upon FDA approval and will pay Almirall royalties on Tudorza sales. Tudorza has been granted five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity that extends to 2017. Tudorza is also protected by U.S. composition-of-matter patents that expire in 2020. A request for PTE has been submitted to extend a composition-of-matter patent to 2025. In addition, there are four issued U.S. patents directed to the inhaler device. 5 Table of Contents Pursuant to our agreement, Almirall has also granted us certain rights of first negotiation for other Almirall respiratory products involving combinations with aclidinium (aclidinium bromide). Pursuant to such rights, we commenced the development of a fixed dose combination (FDC) of aclidinium and the long acting beta-agonist formoterol for the treatment of COPD. In the second quarter of calendar year 2013, we announced positive top-line Phase III clinical trial results from two studies of two dosage forms of this FDC; a 400/6mcg FDC and 400/12mcg FDC. Both doses of the FDC were well tolerated in the studies and we anticipate filing an NDA in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2013. Under the terms of the agreement, we will be obligated to pay Almirall future milestone payments if development and commercialization are successfully completed for the FDC. In addition, we obtained co-promotion rights for aclidinium in Canada, for which we will pay Almirall royalties based on net sales, subject to receiving regulatory approval. COPD is a common, progressive, and debilitating lung disease which the World Health Organization (WHO) has described as a global epidemic; an estimated 64 million people have COPD worldwide. More than 3 million people died of this condition in 2005, which is equal to 5 percent of all deaths globally that year. Total deaths from COPD are projected to increase by more than 30 percent in the next 10 years without interventions to cut risks, particularly exposure to tobacco smoke. Viibryd®: Through our acquisition of Clinical Data, Inc. (Clinical Data) completed in April 2011, we obtained exclusive worldwide rights to develop and market Viibryd (vilazodone HCl) a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and a 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist developed by Clinical Data for the treatment of adults with major depressive disorder (MDD). Viibryd was formally launched in the U.S. in August 2011 and sales of Viibryd totaled $162.5 million in fiscal 2013. The exclusive worldwide rights to develop and market Viibryd are licensed from Merck KGaA (Merck). Viibryd has been granted five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity that extends to 2016. Viibryd is also protected by a U.S. composition-of-matter patent that expires in 2014. A request for PTE has been submitted to extend the composition-of-matter patent to 2019. In addition, there are issued U.S. patents directed to polymorphic forms of Viibryd that extend to 2022. MDD is a serious medical condition requiring treatment, which affects more than 15 million adults in the U.S. annually or approximately 6.5% of the adult U.S. population. A person diagnosed with MDD exhibits a combination of symptoms that interfere with one’s ability to work, sleep, study, eat and enjoy once-pleasurable activities. Daliresp®: In February 2011, we received approval from the FDA for the marketing of Daliresp (roflumilast). Daliresp is a novel first-in-class, once-daily, orally administered, selective phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) enzyme inhibitor, developed by our partner Nycomed GmbH (Nycomed) as a treatment to reduce the risk of COPD exacerbations in patients with severe COPD. Daliresp was launched in August 2011 and recorded sales of $77.9 million in fiscal 2013. While the specific mechanism by which Daliresp exerts its therapeutic action in COPD patients is not well defined, it is thought to be related to the effects of increased intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate in lung cells. Daliresp is the first oral treatment for COPD patients to reduce the risk of exacerbations. Other treatments for COPD patients include the use of bronchodilators alone and in combination with inhaled corticosteroids. 6 Table of Contents We licensed the exclusive U.S. rights to Daliresp from Nycomed. Pursuant to our agreement with Nycomed we are obligated to pay Nycomed royalties on Daliresp sales. In addition to five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity that expires in 2016, Daliresp is also protected by a U.S. composition-of-matter patent that expires in 2015. A request for PTE has been submitted to extend the composition-of-matter patent to 2020. Teflaro®: In October 2010, we received marketing approval from the FDA for Teflaro (ceftaroline fosamil) for the treatment of adults with community-acquired bacterial pneumonia, including cases caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae and with acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections, including cases caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Teflaro is a broad-spectrum, hospital-based injectable cephalosporin antibiotic with activity against Gram-positive bacteria and common Gram-negative bacteria. Teflaro achieved sales of $44.0 million in fiscal 2013. Teflaro is a member of the cephalosporin class of antibiotics, the most frequently prescribed class of antibiotics in the world. The worldwide rights (excluding Japan) to Teflaro are in-licensed on an exclusive basis from Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited (Takeda). In addition to five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity that extends to 2015, Teflaro is covered by U.S. composition-of-matter patents that expire in 2018 and 2021. A request for PTE has been submitted to extend one composition-of-matter patent to 2022. In addition, Teflaro is protected by a composition patent that expires in 2031. In August 2009, we entered into a license agreement with AstraZeneca AB (AstraZeneca) pursuant to which AstraZeneca will co-develop and commercialize Teflaro worldwide, excluding the U.S., Canada and Japan. Under the terms of the agreement AstraZeneca is obligated to pay us royalties based on sales of Teflaro. AstraZeneca received regulatory approval in certain European countries, as well as Australia, Chile, and Singapore for Teflaro (under the trade name Zinforo TM) during fiscal 2013 and we have begun to receive royalties on sales of the product in those territories. Bystolic®: Bystolic (nebivolol), our beta-1 selective beta-blocker with vasodilating properties, achieved sales of $455.1 million in fiscal 2013 and according to data published by IMS Health Inc.(IMS), as of April 30, 2013, Bystolic’s market share was 4.3% of total prescriptions in the beta-blocker category. Like other beta-blockers, Bystolic decreases heart rate and myocardial contractility. A Phase III clinical trial is underway to study an FDC of Bystolic and the market’s leading angiotensin II receptor blocker, valsartan, for the treatment of patients with hypertension. In January 2012, we began a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of approximately 3,700 patients to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Bystolic and valsartan in patients with stage 1 or 2 essential hypertension. We expect to report preliminary top-line data from the study in the second quarter of calendar 2013. We licensed exclusive U.S. and Canadian rights to Bystolic from Mylan Inc. (Mylan). Mylan licensed the U.S. and Canadian rights to Bystolic from Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V. (Janssen) and obtained Janssen’s consent to sub-license Bystolic to us in those territories. In February 2008, we amended our license agreement with Mylan to terminate Mylan’s further commercial rights for Bystolic in the U.S. and Canada and to reduce future payment obligations to Mylan. Pursuant to the amendment, we made a one-time cash payment of $370 million to Mylan and were obligated to pay Mylan its original contractual royalties for a period of three years, which ended in calendar 2010, at which time our royalty rate was substantially reduced. In March 2012, we entered into an agreement with Janssen, under which we acquired all U.S. patents and other U.S. and Canadian intellectual property for Bystolic, thereby eliminating all future royalties. Under the terms of the agreement, we made a one-time cash payment of $357 million to Janssen, and Janssen assigned to us all U.S. patents and other U.S. and Canadian know-how covering Bystolic. Bystolic is protected by a U.S. pharmaceutical composition of matter patent that expires in 2015, with a PTE to 2021. Bystolic was launched in Canada in April 2013. 7 Table of Contents In February 2012, we and Janssen received notification from several companies that they had filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) with Paragraph IV certifications seeking approval to market generic versions of Bystolic before the expiration of U.S. Patent No. 6,545,040 (the ‘040 patent). In March 2012, we and Janssen jointly filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware and in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against these companies for infringement of the ‘040 patent which expires in 2021. Janssen is no longer a party to these lawsuits following the Company’s agreement to buy out Janssen’s interests in Bystolic. The Company has entered into settlement agreements with four of the six defendant groups. The terms of the settlement agreements are subject to review of the settlement terms by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. For additional information, refer to Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Namenda®: Namenda (memantine HCl), our moderate-affinity, uncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor agonist for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type achieved sales of $1.5 billion during fiscal 2013 and, according to data published by IMS, as of April 30, 2012, Namenda achieved a 36% share of total prescriptions in the Alzheimer’s market. We licensed the exclusive rights to develop and market Namenda in the U.S. from Merz GmbH & Co. of Germany, the originator of the product. Namenda is protected by a U.S. method-of-use patent that expires in April 2015. Several generic manufacturers challenged our patent and per the terms of the settlement agreements, a number of generic manufacturers have licenses to launch generic versions of Namenda beginning January 2015. Namenda XR™: In June 2010, Namenda XR (memantine HCl extended release) was approved by the FDA for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Namenda XR is a 28mg once-daily, extended-release formulation of Namenda. We plan to launch the product in the mid-calendar year of 2013, to assure the continued success of the franchise. Namenda XR was granted three years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity which extended to 2013 and is protected by the method-of-use patent that covers Namenda. In addition, Namenda XR is protected by a U.S. method-of-use patent that relates to the extended release formulation that expires in 2029. In November 2012, we entered into an agreement with Adamas Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Adamas) for the development and commercialization of an FDC of Namenda XR and donepezil HCl which will be a daily therapy for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Pursuant to the agreement, the Company made an upfront payment of $65 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2012 which was recorded in Research and development (R&D) expense. The Company may be obligated to pay up to $95 million in future milestones if development and commercialization efforts are successful. The Company will have exclusive commercialization rights for this FDC in the U.S. Savella®: Savella (milnacipran HCl) our selective serotonin and norepinephrine inhibitor (SNRI) for the management of fibromyalgia achieved sales of $104.6 million in fiscal 2013. Fibromyalgia is a chronic condition characterized by widespread pain and decreased physical function. We licensed the U.S. and Canadian rights to develop and commercialize Savella from Cypress Bioscience, Inc. (Cypress). Pursuant to our agreement, we are obligated to pay Cypress royalties based on net sales of Savella. In addition to five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity that expires in 2014, Savella is protected by a method-of-use patent that expires in 2023, with PTE, and two method-of-use patents that expire 2021. In addition, Savella is protected by a U.S. method-of-use patent relating to the required dosing schedule that expires in 2029. 8 Table of Contents European Cystic Fibrosis Franchise: In February 2012, we were granted European Medicines Agency approval to market Colobreathe®. Colobreathe is a novel dry powder inhaler developed by Forest containing colistin, indicated for the treatment of chronic lung infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa in cystic fibrosis patients aged 6 years and older. We began marketing Colobreathe in April 2013. In December 2010, we entered into an agreement with Grünenthal GmbH (Grünenthal) pursuant to which we acquired all rights held by Grünenthal for colistin and reacquired all rights previously licensed by us to Grünenthal for Colobreathe for $100 million. Colistin is an antibiotic used to treat the principal bacterial infections in cystic fibrosis patients and is currently marketed by Forest in a nebulized presentation in the United Kingdom and Ireland as Colomycin®. Total sales of Colistin and Colomycin were $44.4 million in fiscal 2013. This transaction and the approval to market Colobreathe in Europe enable us to expand our European cystic fibrosis franchise and become a major distributor of colistin in Europe. Canada: We have established a wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary, which is responsible for the registration and commercialization of our products in Canada. Health Canada granted approval for Bystolic in December 2012 and the product was launched in April 2013. We plan on submitting regulatory filings for additional products in the coming year. moksha8: In October 2012, we entered into an agreement with moksha8, a privately-held pharmaceutical company which markets products in Latin America. The agreement includes an exclusive license from Forest to moksha8 to commercialize Viibryd and potentially other Forest products, in Latin America. We will provide financing in several tranches over a two-year period, conditioned upon moksha8 achieving certain business goals. At the end of this two-year period, we will have the option to acquire moksha8 at a fixed price and the moksha8 shareholders will have the ability to put to us all the interests of moksha8 at a fixed price, subject to the achievement of certain performance criteria. Levomilnacipran: In September 2012, we submitted to the FDA an NDA for levomilnacipran, an SNRI for the treatment of MDD in adults. The Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) target action date is expected to occur during the third quarter of calendar 2013. In April 2012, we reported positive results from the third Phase III randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose clinical trial evaluating the efficacy, safety and tolerability of levomilnacipran compared to placebo in adult patients with MDD. Following a 1-week single-blind placebo run-in period, 568 men and women, 18-75 years of age, were randomized to receive either levomilnacipran 40mg or 80mg once-daily or placebo for eight weeks. This was followed by an additional 1-week double-blind down-taper period. All patients participating in the study met the criteria for recurrent MDD as defined by the DSM-IV-TR, and had a minimum score of 26 on the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale-Clinician Rated (MADRS-CR). The average baseline score among participating patients was 31 on the MADRS-CR. Levomilnacipran was generally well-tolerated in this study. The development program for levomilnacipran included two additional Phase III studies that demonstrated statistically significant improvement over placebo. In another Phase III study, levomilnacipran consistently demonstrated improvement relative to placebo over the course of the trial, however, the overall difference observed between the drug-treated and the placebo-treated patients was not statistically significant. We are a party to a 2008 collaboration agreement with Pierre Fabre Médicament (Pierre Fabre) for the development and commercialization of levomilnacipran in the U.S. and Canada. Under the terms of our agreement, we will be obligated to pay Pierre Fabre future milestone payments upon successful development of levomilnacipran. We have assumed responsibility for the clinical development and commercialization of levomilnacipran in the U.S. and Canada, while Pierre Fabre funded all pre-clinical development and will also fund all drug substance manufacturing activities. Levomilnacipran is an enantiomer of milnacipran and is covered by a U.S. method-of-use patent that expires in 2023, without PTE. We also anticipate that under the FDA Amendments Acts of 2007 (FDAAA), levomilnacipran should be granted five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity upon approval. 9 Table of Contents Cariprazine:In November 2012, we submitted to the FDA an NDA for cariprazine, an atypical antipsychotic, for the treatment of schizophrenia and acute mania associated with bipolar depression. The PDUFA target action date is expected to occur during the fourth calendar quarter of 2013. In February 2012, we reported positive top-line results from two Phase III studies of cariprazine for the treatment of acute exacerbation of schizophrenia. For the primary endpoint in each study, the Positive And Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), the data showed that cariprazine-treated patients experienced significant symptom improvement compared to placebo-treated patients. All doses showed statistically significant separation from placebo starting at week 2 and at each subsequent time point with the higher dose showing separation as early as week 1 of treatment. The results of these two studies were consistent with the results of a previously completed placebo-controlled Phase IIb fixed-dose study in this population. During fiscal year 2012, we also reported the results of two Phase III studies of cariprazine conducted with patients with acute mania associated with bipolar disorder. The primary endpoint of each study was the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS). The data from both studies showed that cariprazine-treated patients with acute manic episodes experienced significant improvements in symptoms compared to placebo-treated patients, These significant improvements took place as early as day four of treatment in the first study, as early as day five of treatment in the second study, and at each subsequent time point studied. Cariprazine is licensed through a collaboration and license agreement with Gedeon Richter Plc. (Richter), based in Budapest, Hungary. Our license grants us exclusive development and commercialization rights to cariprazine and its related compounds in the U.S. and Canada. We collaborate with Richter in product development and jointly fund such development activities. Cariprazine is an oral D2/D3 partial agonist being developed as an atypical antipsychotic for the treatment of schizophrenia, acute mania associated with bipolar depression, bipolar depression and as an adjunct treatment for MDD. Under the terms of the agreement with Richter, we will be obligated to pay future milestone payments if development and commercialization are successfully completed. We will also be obligated to pay Richter a royalty based on net sales of the product. In addition to five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity which we anticipate would be granted upon approval, cariprazine is protected by a U.S. composition-of-matter patent that expires in 2027, without PTE. Cariprazine is also protected by an issued U.S. patent directed to polymorphic forms that expires in 2028. 10 Table of Contents Avibactam:In December 2009, we entered into an agreement with AstraZeneca to acquire additional rights to avibactam including co-development and exclusive commercialization rights in the U.S. and Canada to products containing avibactam including the ceftazidime/avibactam and ceftaroline/avibactam combinations. Avibactam is a novel broad-spectrum beta-lactamase inhibitor designed to be co-administered intravenously with select antibiotics to enhance their spectrum of activity by overcoming beta-lactamase-related antibacterial resistance. Avibactam is currently being developed in combination with ceftazidime, a cephalosporin antibiotic, and the ceftaroline /avibactam program is currently under review. Data from two Phase II trials for ceftazidime/avibactam in patients with complicated intra-abdominal infections (cIAI) and complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) demonstrated that ceftazidime/avibactam achieved high clinical cure rates and was well tolerated in patients with cIAI and cUTI. Based on the results of these studies, we and AstraZeneca initiated Phase III studies for ceftazidime/avibactam in patients with cIAI in December 2011 and in patients with cUTI in July 2012, which are currently ongoing. Under the terms of the agreement, we will be obligated to pay half of certain future milestones if development is successfully completed. Avibactam inhibits several classes of bacterial enzymes called beta-lactamases that break down and inactivate beta-lactam antibiotics (in particular penicillins and cephalosporins) making the pathogens producing these enzymes resistant to these antibiotics. Beta-lactamase inhibition represents a mechanism for counteracting this resistance and enhancing the broad-spectrum activity of beta-lactam antibiotics. The ceftazidime/avibactam combination product we expect will receive three years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity upon approval. In addition, avibactam is protected by a U.S. composition-of-matter patent that expires in 2022, without PTE. Avibactam is also protected by an issued U.S. patent directed to combinations with an antibiotic that expires in 2026. Cebranopadol: In December 2010, we entered into a license agreement with Grünenthal for the co-development and commercialization of cebranopadol (GRT 6005) and its follow-on compound GRT 6006, both being small molecule analgesic compounds in development for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic pain conditions. Cebranopadol and GRT 6006 are novel first-in-class compounds with unique pharmacological and pharmacokinetic profiles that may enhance their effect in certain pain conditions. The unique mode of action of these compounds builds on the ORL-1 receptor and, supported by the established mu opioid receptor, is particularly suitable for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic pain. Cebranopadol has successfully completed initial proof-of-concept studies in nociceptive and neuropathic pain with further Phase II studies planned prior to initiation of Phase III studies. Both compounds are covered by a U.S. composition of matter patent that expires in November 2023, subject to possible PTE. Under the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment to Grünenthal of $66.1 million, and may be obligated to pay additional development and commercialization milestones as well as royalties on net sales of the product. Pursuant to the agreement, we have exclusive rights in the U.S. and Canada with an option to co-promote in Europe. Grünenthal has an option to co-promote in the U.S. and Canada. Development Program Review: From time to time, the Company performs a review of all developmental projects and re-evaluates our development priorities based on the regulatory and commercial prospects of the products in development. We consider the commercial potential of the products as well as the development and commercialization costs necessary to achieve approval and successful launch. In addition, we also perform a review of our current projects in light of our development priorities. In certain situations we may discontinue a development program based on these reviews. As a result of this review, during fiscal 2013, in light of development priorities the Company made the decision to terminate the partnership with TransTech Pharma, Inc. for the development and commercialization of TTP399. 11 Table of Contents Senior Management On May 22, 2013, Howard Solomon, the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, advised the Board of Directors of his decision to retire from such positions effective December 31, 2013, and entered into a letter agreement with the Company pursuant to which he agreed to continue to serve as President and Chief Executive Officer until December 31, 2013 or, if later, the appointment of his successor as Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Solomon continues as a Director and Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors and will become a Senior Advisor to the Company following the effective date of his resignation as President and Chief Executive Officer. Acquisitions On April 13, 2011, the Company acquired Clinical Data, a specialty pharmaceutical company, for aggregate consideration of $1.3 billion which the Company financed with existing cash. The Company fully integrated the operations of Clinical Data into its existing structure. As a result of our acquisition, we obtained a license agreement with Merck under which we have the exclusive worldwide rights to develop and market Viibryd, an antidepressant developed by Clinical Data for the treatment of adults with MDD. Share Repurchase Program On May 18, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the 2010 Share Repurchase Program for up to 50 million shares of common stock. The authorization became effective immediately and has no set expiration date. As of March 31, 2013, we have repurchased a total of 35.6 million shares under the 2010 Share Repurchase Program; 11.2 million during fiscal 2011, 21.5 million during fiscal 2012 and 2.9 million during fiscal 2013. As of May 22, 2013, 14.4 million shares were remaining authorized for repurchase under the 2010 Share Repurchase Program. We may make share repurchases from time to time in the open market or through private transactions, including accelerated share repurchase transactions. Principal Products We actively promote in the U.S. those branded products which we believe have the most patient benefit and potential for growth, and which enable our salesforces to concentrate on groups of physicians who are high prescribers of our products. Such products include: Namenda, our NMDA antagonist for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type; Bystolic, our beta-blocker for the treatment of hypertension; Linzess, a guanylate cyclase type-C receptor agonist for the once-daily treatment for men and women suffering from IBS-C or CIC; Tudorza, our long-acting antimuscarinic agent for the long-term maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with COPD, including chronic bronchitis and emphysema; Viibryd, an SSRI and a 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist for the treatment of adults with MDD; Daliresp, our PDE4 inhibitor as a treatment to reduce the risk of COPD exacerbations in patients with severe COPD; Savella, our SNRI for the management of fibromyalgia; and Teflaro, a broad-spectrum, hospital-based injectable cephalosporin antibiotic for the treatment of adults with skin and skin structure infections and community-acquired bacterial pneumonia. The following products accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales during one or more of the three most recent fiscal years: Product 2013 2012 2011 Namenda 52 % 32 % 30 % Bystolic 16 % 8 % 6 % Lexapro 7 % 49 % 55 % Namenda is marketed under agreements between Forest and Merz dated June 28, 2000 (collectively, the Merz License). A copy of the Merz License has been filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended March 31, 2004 and the following description of the terms of this agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the agreement which has been filed with the SEC and such agreement is incorporated herein by reference. 12 Table of Contents Under the terms of the Merz License, the Company was granted exclusive U.S. marketing (and related manufacturing) rights with respect to products containing memantine for use in the treatment of vascular dementia and Alzheimer’s disease, and Merz has agreed to supply all of Forest’s requirements of the active pharmaceutical ingredient memantine. The Merz License requires that Forest pay to Merz a percentage of its net revenues from the sale of Namenda as a royalty. The agreement expires in 2028. The agreement may be terminated by either party in the event the other party breaches any of its obligations under the agreement and such breach continues beyond any applicable cure period (as determined by an arbitration proceeding). In the event of such a termination by Merz, Forest would lose all of its rights under the agreement. Upon expiration of the agreement (or upon earlier termination of the agreement by reason of a breach by Merz), Forest would continue to have a perpetual but non-exclusive license to market the product in the U.S. and exclusive rights to use the Namenda trademark subject to the payment of a trademark royalty. Prior to March 30, 2012, Bystolic was marketed under a sublicense agreement between Forest and Mylan Inc. (Mylan), which in turn licensed rights to Bystolic from Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V. (Janssen). As described above under the heading Developments, we amended our license agreement with Mylan in February 2008 to terminate Mylan’s further commercial rights for Bystolic in the U.S. and Canada, and on March 30, 2012, we entered into a sale and transfer agreement with Janssen under which we acquired all U.S. patents and other U.S. and Canadian intellectual property for Bystolic, thereby eliminating all future royalties to Janssen, in exchange for a one-time cash payment of $357 million. A copy of the Janssen sale and transfer agreement has been filed as Exhibit 10.51 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended March 31, 2012. Lexapro was developed and is marketed under agreements with H. Lundbeck A/S (Lundbeck) entered into in 1998 (collectively, the Lundbeck License), but ceased being one of our principal products following its loss of patent exclusivity in March 2012. The Lexapro license agreement and related license and supply agreement have been filed as Exhibits 10.17 and 10.18, respectively, to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended March 31, 2002. Marketing The Company sells its pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, who distribute our products to hospitals, government agencies and other institutions. Our subsidiaries market our products through our salesforces directly to physicians, pharmacies, hospitals, managed care and other healthcare organizations. Our salesforces consist of approximately 3,100 personnel, 3,000 domestic and 100 international. Select products are sold elsewhere through independent distributors. Competition The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive as to the sale of products, research for new or improved products and the development and application of competitive drug formulation and delivery technologies. There are numerous companies in the U.S. and abroad engaged in the manufacture and sale of both proprietary and generic drugs, both of which we sell. Many of our competitors in this industry have substantially greater financial resources than we do. We also face competition for the acquisition or licensing of new product opportunities from other companies. In addition, the marketing of pharmaceutical products is increasingly affected by the growing role of managed care organizations in the provision of health services. Such organizations negotiate with pharmaceutical manufacturers for highly competitive prices for pharmaceutical products in equivalent therapeutic categories, including certain of our principal promoted products. Failure to be included or to have a preferred position in a managed care organization’s drug formulary could result in decreased prescriptions of a manufacturer’s products. 13 Table of Contents Another competitive challenge we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, we may lose a major portion of sales of such product in a very short period. Generic pharmaceutical manufacturers also challenge product patents before their expiry. Generic competitors operate without our large research and development expenses and our costs of conveying medical information about our novel products to the medical community. In addition, the FDA approval process generally exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. This means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent protection and charge much less for their product. In addition, many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including Medicaid. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. Government Regulation The pharmaceutical industry is subject to comprehensive government regulation which substantially increases the difficulty and cost incurred in obtaining the approval to market newly proposed drug products and maintaining the approval to market existing drugs. In the U.S., products which we develop, manufacture or sell are subject to regulation by the FDA, principally under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as well as by other federal and state agencies. The FDA regulates all aspects of the testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising and promotion of new and established drugs, including the monitoring of compliance with good manufacturing practice regulations. Non-compliance with applicable requirements can result in fines and other sanctions, including the initiation of product seizures, injunction actions and criminal prosecutions based on practices that violate statutory requirements. In addition, administrative remedies can involve voluntary recall of products as well as the withdrawal of approval of products in accordance with due process procedures. Failure of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing. Similar regulations exist in most foreign countries in which our products are manufactured or sold. In many foreign countries, such as the United Kingdom, reimbursement under national health insurance programs frequently require that manufacturers and sellers of pharmaceutical products obtain government approval of initial prices and increases if the ultimate consumer is to be eligible for reimbursement for the cost of such products. On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (which was subsequently amended on March 30, 2010 by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010), which is more commonly known as the Healthcare Reform Bill. The stated goals of this legislation include reducing the number of uninsured Americans, improving the quality of healthcare delivery and reducing projected healthcare costs. Many of the strategies included in this law will impact manufacturers of branded pharmaceutical products. 14 Table of Contents Two categories of provisions in the law which have a significant impact on Forest are those which will impact rebates paid to public and private payers and those which might impact patient access to pharmaceutical products. The former category, containing provisions which took effect in 2010, includes an increase in the Medicaid mandatory rebate (from 15.1% to 23.1% for branded pharmaceutical products), provision of Medicaid Fee-for-Service rebates to drugs adjudicated through Medicaid Managed Care Plans, changes in the calculation of certain pricing information reported to the government and extension of favorable government pricing to additional entities. This category also includes manufacturer rebates to certain patients in the Medicare Part D coverage gap and a non-deductible annual fee payable to the federal government based on a company’s prior calendar year share of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs, both of which were implemented in 2011. During the past several years, the FDA, in accordance with its standard practice, has conducted a number of inspections of our manufacturing facilities, our development facilities, our contracted investigator sites and our contract research organizations. Following these inspections, the FDA called our attention to certain “Good Manufacturing, Laboratory and Clinical Practices” compliance and record keeping deficiencies. We have responded to the FDA’s comments and modified our procedures to comply with the requests made by the FDA. The cost of human healthcare products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies and private organizations in the U.S. and other countries. In the U.S., most states have enacted generic substitution legislation permitting or requiring a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer’s version of a drug for the one prescribed. Federal and state governments continue to press efforts to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid programs, including restrictions on amounts agencies will reimburse for the use of products. In addition, several states have adopted prescription drug benefit programs which supplement Medicaid programs and are seeking discounts or rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers to subsidize such programs. Failure to provide such discounts or rebates may lead to restrictions upon the availability of a manufacturer’s products in health programs, including Medicaid, run by such states. Under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (OBRA), manufacturers must pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates on Medicaid purchases for reimbursement of prescription drugs under state Medicaid plans. Federal Medicaid reimbursement for drug products of original NDA-holders is denied if less expensive generic versions are available from other manufacturers. In addition, the Federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid. The DRG system entitles a healthcare facility to a fixed reimbursement based on discharge diagnoses rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures for many healthcare products. Under the PDUFA, the FDA has imposed fees on various aspects of the approval, manufacture and sale of prescription drugs. A prescription-drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries was established pursuant to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. Under the program, pharmaceutical benefit managers and health programs offer discounted prices on prescription drugs to qualified Medicare recipients reflecting discounts negotiated with manufacturers where applicable. The failure of a manufacturer to offer discounts to these programs could result in reduced use of the manufacturer’s products. In April 2003, the Federal Office of the Inspector General published guidance for pharmaceutical manufacturers with respect to compliance programs to assure manufacturer compliance with federal laws and programs relating to healthcare. In addition, several states have adopted laws and regulations requiring certain specific disclosures with respect to our compliance program and our practices relating to interactions with physicians and other healthcare providers. We maintain a company-wide compliance program to assure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, as well as the standards of professional bodies governing interactions between pharmaceutical manufacturers and physicians, and believe we are in compliance with all legal requirements and standards. 15 Table of Contents On February 8, 2013, the final rule known as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act (Sunshine Act) enacted as part of the Affordable Care Act was published. The Sunshine Act requires manufacturers of pharmaceutical products to report annually to the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services all payments or transfers of value made by an entity or party on behalf of the respective entity to physicians, teaching hospitals, and third-parties on behalf of physicians or teaching hospitals. This final rule requires data collection on all payments and transfers of value to begin on August 1, 2013. In connection with the finalization of a previously reported settlement resolving all aspects of the investigations led by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the U.S. Attorney's Office (USAO) for the District of Massachusetts that began in January 2004 relating to past marketing and sales activities in connection with Celexa®, Lexapro, and Levothroid®, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the Office of Inspector General of Health and Human Services (OIG-HHS) in September 2010. The CIA requires us to maintain our current compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. The CIA also provides for an independent third-party review organization to assess and report on our compliance program. Failure to comply with the terms of the CIA could result in substantial penalties and potential exclusion from government health care programs. Refer to “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for the discussion of certain government regulations. Principal Customers The following sets forth information with respect to the percentage of net sales accounted for by our principal customers: Customer 2013 2012 2011 McKesson Drug Company 38 % 36 % 37 % Cardinal Health, Inc. 29 % 30 % 32 % AmerisourceBergen Corporation 20 % 20 % 20 % No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our net sales for the fiscal years presented. Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Area The Company and its subsidiaries, which are primarily located in the U.S. and Europe, operate in only one segment. Data regarding revenues from principal customers, net sales and long-lived assets for each of the last three fiscal years, where applicable, and information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate is presented in “Note 3 – Business operations” in the accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” incorporated by reference herein. Environmental Standards We anticipate that the effects of compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the discharge of materials into the environment will not have any material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 16 Table of Contents Raw Materials The active pharmaceutical ingredients in our principal promoted products, including Namenda, Bystolic, Linzess, Tudorza, Viibryd, Daliresp, Savella and Teflaro are patented or otherwise generally available to us only pursuant to contractual arrangements with our licensing partners. Other raw materials used by us are purchased in the open market. We have not experienced any significant shortage in supplies of active pharmaceutical ingredients or other raw materials. Product Liability Insurance We currently maintain $140 million of product liability coverage per “occurrence” and in the aggregate. Although in the past there have been product liability claims asserted against us, none for which we have been found liable, there can be no assurance that all potential claims which may be asserted against us in the future would be covered by our present insurance. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors”. Research and Development During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, we recorded $963.6 million for R&D expense, as compared to $796.9 million and $715.9 million in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Included in R&D expense are payments made pursuant to licensing and acquisition agreements for new product opportunities where FDA approval has not yet been received. R&D expense for fiscal 2013 included upfront licensing agreement payments of $71.0 million and milestone payments of $61.5 million. R&D expense for fiscal 2012 included upfront payments of $40 million and $59.6 million in development milestone expenses; R&D expense for fiscal 2011 included upfront payments of $116.1 million and development milestone expenses of $27.2 million. Other R&D expenditures consist primarily of pre-clinical and clinical studies required to obtain approval of new products, as well as clinical studies designed to further differentiate our products from those of our competitors or to obtain additional labeling indications. Employees At March 31, 2013, we employed approximately 5,800 employees. Patents and Trademarks Forest seeks to obtain, where possible, patents and trademarks for our products in the U.S. and all countries of major marketing interest to Forest. We own or have licenses to a substantial number of patents and patent applications. Several of these patents, which expire during the period 2015 to 2021, are believed to be of material importance in the operation of Forest’s business. We believe that patents, licenses and trademarks (or related groups of patents, licenses, or trademarks) covering our marketed products are material in relation to our business as a whole. Product Name Approved Indication Date of Last U.S. Patent Exclusivity Namenda Treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type 2015 Bystolic Treatment of hypertension 2021 Viibryd Treatment of adults with MDD 2022 Savella Treatment of fibromyalgia 2029 Daliresp Treatment to reduce the risk of COPD 2020 Teflaro Treatment of adults with community-acquired bacterial pneumonia 2031 Linzess Treatment of IBS-C or CIC. 2026 Tudorza Treatment of bronchospasm 2025 When a product patent expires, the patent holder often loses effective market exclusivity for the product. This can result in a severe and rapid decline in sales of the formerly patented product, particularly in the U.S. However, in some cases the innovator company may achieve exclusivity beyond the expiry of the product patent through manufacturing trade secrets, later-expiring patents on methods of use or formulations, or data-based exclusivity that may be available under pharmaceutical regulatory laws. 17 Table of Contents We own or exclusively license various trademarks and trade names which we believe are of significant benefit to our business. Backlog - Seasonality Backlog of orders is not considered material to our business prospects. Our business is not seasonal in nature. Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in an industry which involves a number of significant risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The risks discussed herein and other risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face as described below and elsewhere. See “Item 1. Business” Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Our Major Products Face Generic Competition Upon Patent Expiration Forest depends upon patents to provide exclusive marketing rights for products. As product patents expire, we face strong competition from lower priced generic drugs. Loss of patent protection for one of our products typically leads to a rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. In the case of products that contribute significantly to sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position, and cash flow. Listed below are the Company’s significant patent-protected products which, in total, contributed 74% of consolidated net sales for the year ended March 31, 2013. For the year ended March 31, 2013 Product Net Sales % of Total Net Sales Date of Last U.S. Patent Exclusivity (In thousands) Namenda 1,520,640 52 % 2015 Bystolic 455,092 16 % 2021 Viibryd 162,511 6 % 2022 18 Table of Contents Our Business Depends on Intellectual Property Protection. Our ability to generate the revenue necessary to support our investment in acquiring and developing new product opportunities, as well as the commitment of resources to successfully market our products, greatly depends on effective intellectual property protection to ensure we can take advantage of lawful market exclusivity. Manufacturers of generic products have strong incentives to challenge the patents which cover our principal products. While we believe that our patent portfolio, together with market exclusivity periods granted by the Hatch-Waxman Act, offers adequate exclusivity protection for our current products, there can be no assurance that some of our patents will not be determined to be invalid or unenforceable, resulting in unanticipated early generic competition for the affected product. For example and as disclosed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below and in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have recently brought actions against certain manufacturers of generic drugs for infringement of the U.S. pharmaceutical composition of matter patent covering Bystolic, two of which remain ongoing. Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing our sales of that product. Even with patent protection, we may face reduced product sales since generic manufacturers may choose in some cases to launch a generic product “at risk” before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) or before the final resolution of related patent litigation. Availability of generic substitutes for our drugs may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the U.S. and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is possible that these agreements could be breached or that they will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. It is also possible that our trade secrets will become known or independently developed by our competitors. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or enforce our patents, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. Our Company has Become Increasingly Dependent on Information Technology. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. Due to the size and complexity of these systems, any breakdown or unauthorized access to these systems could negatively impact our operations. Also, confidential information or any privacy breaches by employees could expose trade secrets, personal information, or other sensitive data. Any of these situations can cause business interruption and adversely affect our business. We have invested heavily in the protection of our information technology and infrastructure. We cannot, however, guarantee that our efforts can prevent such breakdown or breaches in our systems. Our Business Model Currently Depends on the Successful In-Licensing or Acquisition of New Product Opportunities. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and launch new pharmaceutical products. Our pipeline of new products is currently dependent on the licensing and acquisition of new product opportunities. To successfully accomplish these transactions, we commit substantial effort and expense to seeking out, evaluating and negotiating collaboration arrangements and acquisitions. The competition for attractive product opportunities may require us to devote substantial resources to an opportunity with no assurance that such efforts will result in a commercially successful product. The Growth of Our Business Depends on Our Ability to Retain and Recruit Key Executives and Qualified Personnel. The success of our commercial, research and development, and external growth objectives is dependent on our ability to retain and recruit qualified scientific, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and executive personnel. If we do not actively retain and recruit these personnel, this could adversely impact the Company’s business. 19 Table of Contents Failure to Implement our Business Strategy Could Impact Our Growth and Profitability. While we currently operate primarily in the U.S. and European markets, we expect to continue to expand into other international markets in the future. In this regard, we have established a wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary and entered into an agreement which includes a put and call option to acquire rights to a privately-held pharmaceutical company which markets products in Latin America. There is no assurance that our international expansion strategy will be successful. International operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including the risk that our marketing strategies will not translate well to other markets, and that we will need to expend resources to adapt those strategies for such new markets; the need to comply with additional foreign laws and regulations to the extent applicable, including restrictions on advertising practices, consumer protection laws, enforcement of intellectual property rights, and restrictions on pricing or discounts; and unexpected changes in international regulatory requirements and tariffs. Our Business Could be Negatively Affected by the Performance of Our Partners. Our principal products, as well as certain of our principal product development opportunities, involve strategic alliances with other companies. Our alliance partners typically possess significant patents or other technology which are licensed to us and remain significantly involved in product research and development activities and in the exclusive manufacture and supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients upon which our products are based. While some of our partners are large well-established companies, others may be smaller companies in the “start-up” stage. A failure or inability of our partners to perform their obligations could materially negatively affect our operations or business plans. In addition, while our relationships with our strategic partners have been good, differences of opinion on significant matters arise from time to time. Any such differences of opinion, as well as disputes or conflicting corporate priorities, could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefits of the alliance. We May Experience Delays or Inability to Successfully Develop or Commercialize New Products Which Can Cause Our Operating Results to Suffer. Our future results of operations will depend to a significant degree upon our ability to successfully develop and/or commercialize new products. We may experience difficulties and delays in the development or commercialization of new products. New product development is subject to a great deal of uncertainty, risk and expense. Promising pharmaceutical candidates may fail at various stages of the research and development process, often after a great deal of financial and other resources have been invested in their exploration and development. Even where pharmaceutical development is successfully completed, a product may fail to reach the market or have limited commercial success because the safety and efficacy profile achieved during the course of development is not as favorable as originally anticipated or is viewed by the marketplace as less favorable in comparison to new and competing therapies which may become available during the lengthy period of drug development. In addition, decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. We cannot state with certainty when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched; whether we will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. We must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover our substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose patent protection or are displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short-term or long-term would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial position and prospects. 20 Table of Contents Post-Approval Clinical Trials and Developments Could Adversely Affect the Sales of our Products. As a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the FDA may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. The results generated in these trials could result in loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product. The FDAAA gives the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with FDA-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The FDA’s exercise of its authority under the FDAAA could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with additional post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. Post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. Further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of our products. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. Furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of our products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. Such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of our products. A violation of the law may result in substantial civil and criminal monetary and other penalties. Many of Our Principal Products and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients are Only Available From a Single Manufacturing Source. Many of the proprietary active ingredients in our principal products are available to us only pursuant to contractual supply arrangements with our collaboration partners or single third party sources. In addition, our manufacturing facilities in the Republic of Ireland are the exclusive qualified manufacturing facilities for finished dosage forms of many of our principal products, including Namenda, Bystolic and Savella. Difficulties or delays in the product supply chain, both within and outside of our control, or the inability to locate and qualify third party alternative sources, if necessary, in a timely manner, could lead to shortages or long-term product unavailability, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our Customer Base is Highly Concentrated. Our principal customers are wholesale drug distributors and comprise a significant part of the distribution network for the pharmaceutical industry in the U.S. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, three key wholesale customers, Cardinal Health Inc., McKesson Corporation, and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, in aggregate, accounted for 87% of our total consolidated gross sales. Fluctuations in the buying patterns of these key customers could be the result of wholesaler buying decisions, or other factors outside our control, which could significantly impact our net sales. Also, if one of these customers experiences financial difficulties, the customer may decrease the amount of business it does with us. This could potentially cause an issue collecting all the amounts the wholesaler may owe us. These factors could negatively impact our results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Regulatory Compliance Issues Could Materially Affect Our Financial Position and Results of Operations. The marketing and promotional practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with prescribers of pharmaceutical products and other healthcare decision makers, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the U.S., including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities. Such regulation takes the form of explicit governmental regulation and guidance, as well as practices established by healthcare and industry codes of conduct. In addition, federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities actively seek to enforce such regulations and can assert both civil and criminal theories of enforcement not specifically prescribed by published regulations or standards and accordingly with little objective guidance to permit voluntary industry compliance. Such enforcement can include actions initially commenced by “whistleblowers” under the Federal False Claims Act which provides incentives to whistleblowers based upon penalties successfully imposed as a result of the investigation or related legal proceedings or settlements. There can be no assurance that the resolution of pending or future claims, as well as the resolution of private party (such as consumers or third-party payer) litigation which may be associated with any such claims or their resolution, will not entail material fines, penalties or settlement payments. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for information about pending government investigations and litigation concerning our marketing and promotional practices and certain third-party payer litigation pending against us. In connection with a previously disclosed settlement of certain claims brought by the U.S. government, we are now operating under a CIA with the OIG-HHS that requires us to maintain our current compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. The CIA also provides for an independent third-party review organization to assess and report on our compliance program. While we expect to fully and timely comply with all of our obligations under the CIA, the failure to do so could result in substantial penalties and our being excluded from government healthcare programs. In addition, the manufacture, testing, storage and shipment of pharmaceutical products are highly regulated and the failure to comply with regulatory standards can lead to product withdrawals or seizures or to delays in FDA approval of products pending resolution of such issues. Moreover, even when a manufacturer has fully complied with applicable regulatory standards, products manufactured and distributed may ultimately fail to comply with applicable specifications, leading to product withdrawals or recalls. Pharmaceutical Cost-Containment Initiatives May Negatively Affect Our Net Income. Pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions within the U.S. and internationally. More specifically, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 included a prescription drug benefit for Medicare participants. Companies that negotiate prices on behalf of Medicare drug plans have a significant degree of purchasing power and we experience pricing pressure as a result. Our net sales also continues to be impacted by cost-containment initiatives adopted by managed care organizations and pharmaceutical benefit managers which negotiate discounted prices from pharmaceutical manufacturers in order to secure placement on formularies adopted by such organizations or their health plan or employer customers. Failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization of our products. In addition, some states have implemented, and other states are considering, price controls or patient-access constraints under the Medicaid program and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid eligible. 22 Table of Contents Healthcare Reform in the U.S. May Adversely Affect Our Revenues. The U.S. healthcare industry has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action. Recently, major U.S. healthcare reform has been adopted into law which, in addition to other measures, impacts rebates paid to public and private payers and affects patient access to pharmaceutical products. The reform measures call for, among other things, an increase in certain Medicare drug rebates paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers and an industry fee imposed on pharmaceutical manufacturers according to the individual manufacturer’s relative percentage of total industry sales to specified government programs. At this time no assurances can be given that these measures, or any other measures included in the reform acts, will not have an adverse effect on our revenues in the future. Our Business Presents Risk of Product Liability Claims. We are subject legal actions asserting product liability claims. We currently maintain $140 million of product liability insurance coverage “per occurrence” and in the aggregate. There is no assurance that potential future claims asserted against us will be covered by our present insurance coverage. As product liability claims continue to increase in the pharmaceutical industry, we could experience increased insurance premium costs. As more fully discussed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”, we are subject to approximately 161 legal actions asserting product liability claims relating to the use of Celexa or Lexapro. These cases include claims for wrongful death from suicide or injury from suicide attempts while using Celexa or Lexapro as well as claims that Celexa or Lexapro caused various birth defects in newborns. While we believe there is no merit to the cases which have been brought against us, litigation is inherently subject to uncertainties and there can be no assurance that we will not be required to expend substantial amounts in the defense or resolution of some of these matters. We Face Substantial Competition from Other Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Generic Product Distributors. Our industry is characterized by significant technological innovation and change. Many of our competitors are conducting research and development activities in therapeutic areas served by our products and our product-development candidates. The introduction of novel therapies as alternatives to our products may negatively impact our revenues or reduce the value of specific product development programs. In addition, generic alternatives to branded products, including alternatives to brands of other manufacturers in therapeutic categories where we market products, may be preferred by doctors, patients or third-party payers. The Effective Rate of Taxation upon Our Results of Operations is Dependent on Multi-National Tax Considerations. A portion of our earnings is taxed at more favorable rates applicable to the activities undertaken by our subsidiaries based or incorporated in Europe. Changes in tax laws or in their application or interpretation, such as to the transfer pricing between Forest’s non-U.S. operations and the U.S., could increase our effective tax rate and negatively affect our results of operations. Cash repatriations are subject to restrictions in certain jurisdictions and may be subject to withholding and other taxes. Our transfer pricing is the subject of an ongoing audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for fiscal years 2004, 2005 and 2006. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference herein. 23 Table of Contents Our Consolidated Financial Statements May be Impacted in Future Periods Based on the Accuracy of Our Valuations of Our Acquired Businesses and Other Agreements. Accounting for business combinations and other agreements may involve complex and subjective valuations of the assets and liabilities recorded as a result of the business combination or other agreement, and in some instances contingent consideration, which is recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements pursuant to the standards applicable for business combinations in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Differences between the inputs and assumptions used in the valuations and actual results could have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements in future periods. We Have Significant Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Consequently, Potential Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangibles May Significantly Impact Our Profitability. As of March 31, 2013, goodwill and other intangibles represented approximately 37% of our total assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Additionally, goodwill is subject to an impairment test at least annually. Events giving rise to impairment are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical industry and cannot be predicted. As a result of the significance of goodwill and other intangible assets, our results of operations and financial position in a future period could be negatively impacted should an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets occur. We Could be Adversely Affected by Violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Similar Worldwide Anti-Bribery Laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits certain individuals and entities, including U.S. publicly traded companies, from promising, offering, or giving anything of value to foreign officials with the corrupt intent of influencing the foreign official for the purpose of helping the company obtain or retain business or gain any improper advantage. The FCPA also imposes specific recordkeeping and internal controls requirements on U.S. publicly traded companies. As noted above, our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with government officials, including officials of foreign governments. Additionally, in many countries outside the U.S., the healthcare providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by the government and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our payments to these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the FCPA. Recently the SEC and DOJ have increased their FCPA enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. The Illegal Distribution of Our Products Could Have a Negative Impact to Our Business and Reputation. Any third party illegally distributing or selling counterfeit versions of our product could be jeopardizing the health of many individuals. These counterfeit products do not go through our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards and may not be stored the proper warehouse conditions. Counterfeit products sold under our Company name could impact our brand and reputation. We may need to raise additional funds in the future which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We expect cash generated by our operations, together with existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, our $750 million revolving credit facility and access to capital markets to be sufficient to cover cash needs for our operations. However, we may consider issuing additional debt or equity securities in the future to fund common stock repurchases, strategic alliances and acquisitions, milestone payments, working capital and capital expenditures. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity capitalization, requiring us to pay additional interest expenses and potentially lower our credit ratings. We may not be able to market such issuances on favorable terms, or at all, in which case, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Table of Contents 