ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES S-1 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM S-2 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM BALANCE SHEETS STATEMENTS OF INCOME STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXHIBIT 10.17 EXHIBIT 10.30 EXHIBIT 10.31 EXHIBIT 10.51 EXHIBIT 13 EXHIBIT 21 EXHIBIT 23 EXHIBIT 31.1 EXHIBIT 31.2 EXHIBIT 32.1 EXHIBIT 32.2 EXHIBIT 101.INS EXHIBIT 101.SCH EXHIBIT 101.PRE EXHIBIT 101.CAL EXHIBIT 101.LAB EXHIBIT 101.DEF 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Forest Laboratories, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“the Company” or “Forest”) develop, manufacture and sell branded forms of ethical drug products most of which require a physician's prescription. Our most important products in the United States are marketed directly, or “detailed,” to physicians by our salesforces. We emphasize detailing to physicians those branded ethical drugs which we believe have the most benefit to patients and potential for growth. We also focus on the development and introduction of new products, including products developed in collaboration with licensing partners. Our products include those developed by us, including in conjunction with our partners, as well as those acquired from other pharmaceutical companies and integrated into our marketing and distribution systems. We are a Delaware corporation organized in 1956, our principal executive offices are located at 909 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022 (telephone number 212-421-7850) and our corporate website address is http://www.frx.com. We make all electronic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those Reports available on our corporate website free of charge as soon as practicable after filing with or furnishing to the SEC. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Except for the historical information contained herein, this report contains forward looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of predicting U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approvals, acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, challenges to our intellectual property, the impact of legislative and regulatory developments on the manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products and the uncertainty and timing of the development and launch of new pharmaceutical products. This report contains forward-looking statements that are based on Management’s current expectations, estimates, and projections. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this report, may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations, estimates, projections, forecasts and past results. No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate or projection contained in a forward-looking statement will be achieved or will not be affected by the factors cited above or other future events. Forest undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments. We disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 4 Table of Contents Developments The following is a summary of selected key developments during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, that affected or will affect our business, including developments regarding our marketed products and products in various stages of development. Aclidinium: In June 2011, we submitted a New Drug Application (NDA) to the FDA for aclidinium (aclidinium bromide), a novel long-acting antimuscarinic agent developed as an inhaled therapy for the maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In March 2012, we received notification from the FDA that a three-month extension is required to complete its review of the data supporting the NDA. No additional data was requested by the agency to complete the review. FDA action is now expected by July 2012. This notification follows the Pulmonary-Allergy Drugs Advisory Committee (PADAC) meeting in February 2012, during which the committee endorsed the efficacy and safety of twice-daily aclidinium bromide 400ug with a positive 12 to 2 vote in favor of approval. The efficacy and safety of aclidinium was studied in a clinical trial program including 2,717 COPD patients in 9 studies. In these trials, aclidinium demonstrated significant improvement in lung function, with a low incidence of side effects, compared to placebo. When given by inhalation, aclidinium leads to bronchodilation by inhibiting airway smooth muscle contraction. Aclidinium is rapidly hydrolyzed in human plasma to two major inactive metabolites. Aclidinium is administered to patients using a novel state-of-the-art multi-dose dry powder inhaler (MDPI). This inhaler was designed with a feedback system which, through a ‘colored control window’ and an audible click, helps confirm that the patient has inhaled correctly. It contains multiple doses of aclidinium, includes a visible dose-level indicator, and also incorporates safety features such as an anti-double dosing mechanism and an end-of-dose lock-out system to prevent use of an empty inhaler. We licensed the exclusive U.S. marketing rights to aclidinium from Almirall, S.A. (Almirall), a pharmaceutical company headquartered in Barcelona, Spain. We will be responsible for sales and marketing of aclidinium in the U.S. and Almirall has retained an option to co-promote the product in the U.S. in the future, while retaining commercialization rights for the rest of the world. Under the terms of the agreement, we will be obligated pay Almirall $40 million upon FDA approval and Almirall will receive royalty payments based on aclidinium sales. Aclidinium is covered by a U.S. composition of matter patent that expires in 2020 subject to possible patent term extension. As a new chemical entity not previously approved by the FDA, aclidinium will qualify for five years of marketing exclusivity under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act. Pursuant to our agreement, Almirall has also granted us certain rights of first negotiation for other Almirall respiratory products involving combinations with aclidinium. Pursuant to such rights, we commenced the development of a fixed-dose combination of aclidinium and the long acting beta-agonist formoterol for the treatment of COPD. In January 2011, we reported positive top-line results from two Phase II(b) dose-ranging studies comparing different fixed-dose combinations of aclidinium and formoterol to aclidinium alone, formoterol alone and placebo administered BID (twice daily) in patients with moderate to severe COPD. Both studies showed statistically significant differences for the fixed-dose combination on the primary endpoint versus placebo. The fixed-dose combinations also provided a numerically higher bronchodilation effect compared to aclidinium alone and formoterol alone. Phase III studies with the fixed-dose combination commenced in September 2011 and we anticipate top-line results from the trials during the first half of calendar 2013. 5 Table of Contents Under the terms of the agreement, we will be obligated to pay Almirall future milestone payments if development and commercialization are successfully completed for this second product. COPD is an under-diagnosed, progressive, irreversible lung disease and is the third leading cause of death in the U.S. The World Health Organization (WHO) has described COPD as a global epidemic; an estimated 64 million people have COPD worldwide. More than 3 million people died of this condition in 2005, which is equal to 5 percent of all deaths globally that year. Total deaths from COPD are projected to increase by more than 30 percent in the next 10 years without interventions to cut risks, particularly exposure to tobacco smoke. Linaclotide: In August 2011, we and our partner Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Ironwood) submitted to the FDA an NDA for linaclotide, for the treatment of constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-C) and chronic constipation (CC). The submission was based on efficacy and safety data from a Phase III clinical program comprising four double-blind, placebo-controlled trials and two open-label long term safety studies. A total of more than 2,800 patients received a once-daily dose of either linaclotide or placebo across the four placebo-controlled clinical trials: two trials in patients with IBS-C and two trials in patients with CC. Data from these trials showed that statistically significant improvements in abdominal and bowel symptoms were achieved for linaclotide-treated patients. Additionally, over 3,200 patients have enrolled in ongoing open-label safety trials and more than 2,000 of those patients have received linaclotide for at least 12 months. In April 2012, the FDA notified us that it will require a three-month extension to complete its review of the data supporting the NDA for both indications. An additional analysis of existing data was requested by the FDA to further characterize the relative effect of the two doses of linaclotide that were studied in the Phase III CC clinical trials. Since this analysis was submitted to the FDA within three months of the user fee goal date, the date has been extended by three months, in accordance with applicable regulation. No new data was requested by the agency to complete the review. FDA action is now expected by September 2012. Linaclotide is an agonist of the guanylate cyclase type-C receptor found in the intestine and acts by a mechanism distinct from previously developed products for IBS-C and CC. Linaclotide is administered orally but acts locally in the intestine with no measurable systemic exposure at therapeutic doses and is intended for once-daily administration. Upon NDA acceptance by the FDA, we made a $20 million milestone payment to Ironwood and will be obligated to pay Ironwood an additional $85 million upon FDA approval. Under the terms of the agreement, we and Ironwood jointly and equally fund development and we will also jointly and equally fund commercialization of linaclotide in the United States, sharing profits and losses equally. Additionally, we have exclusive rights in Canada and Mexico and will pay Ironwood royalties on net sales in these countries. In addition to five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity that would be granted upon approval, linaclotide is covered by a U.S. composition of matter patent that expires in 2025, subject to possible patent term extension. IBS-C is a chronic functional gastrointestinal disorder characterized by abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, and bloating associated with altered bowel habits and as many as 11 million people in the U.S. suffer from it. IBS-C can have an impact on daily living. There are currently few available therapies to treat this disorder. As many as 34 million Americans suffer from symptoms associated with CC and 8.5 million patients have sought treatment. Patients with CC often experience hard and lumpy stools, straining during defecation, a sensation of incomplete evacuation, and fewer than three bowel movements per week, as well as abdominal discomfort and bloating. There is a high rate of dissatisfaction with currently available treatments for CC. 6 Table of Contents Viibryd®: As a result of our acquisition of Clinical Data, Inc. (Clinical Data) completed in April 2011, we obtained exclusive worldwide rights to develop and market Viibryd (vilazodone HCl) a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor and a 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist developed by Clinical Data for the treatment of adults with major depressive disorder (MDD). Viibryd became available to patients during the June 2011 quarter and was formally launched in the U.S. in late August 2011. Sales of Viibryd totaled $56.5 million in fiscal 2012. Viibryd was approved by the FDA in January 2011. The efficacy of Viibryd was established in two 8-week, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in adult (18-80 years of age) outpatients who met the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR) criteria for MDD. The exclusive worldwide rights to develop and market Viibryd are licensed from Merck KGaA (Merck). In addition to five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity that expires in 2016, Viibryd is covered by a U.S. composition of matter patent that expires in 2014 (a patent term extension application has been filed to extend this patent until 2019). Pediatric exclusivity and other patents may provide additional exclusivity. MDD is a serious medical condition requiring treatment, which affects more than 15 million adults in the United States annually or approximately 6.5% of the adult U.S. population. A person diagnosed with MDD exhibits a combination of symptoms that interfere with one’s ability to work, sleep, study, eat and enjoy once-pleasurable activities. Depression costs the U.S. an estimated $44 billion each year. Among all medical illnesses, MDD is a leading cause of disability in the U.S. The WHO predicts depression will become the second leading cause of disability in 2012. Daliresp®: In February 2011, we received approval from the FDA for the marketing of Daliresp (roflumilast). Daliresp is a novel first-in-class, once-daily, orally administered, selective phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) enzyme inhibitor, developed by our partner Nycomed GmbH (Nycomed) as a treatment to reduce the risk of COPD exacerbations in patients with severe COPD. Daliresp became available to patients during the June 2011 quarter and was formally launched in late August 2011. Daliresp recorded sales of $31.2 million in fiscal 2012. While the specific mechanism by which Daliresp exerts its therapeutic action in COPD patients is not well defined, it is thought to be related to the effects of increased intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (AMP) in lung cells. Daliresp is the first oral treatment for COPD patients to reduce the risk of exacerbations. Other treatments for COPD patients include the use of bronchodilators alone and in combination with inhaled corticosteroids. We licensed the exclusive U.S. rights to Daliresp from Nycomed. Pursuant to our agreement with Nycomed we are obligated to pay Nycomed royalties on Daliresp sales. In addition to five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity that expires in 2016, Daliresp is covered by a U.S. composition of matter patent that expires in 2015 (a patent term extension application has been filed to extend this patent until 2020). Namenda®: Namenda (memantine HCl), our moderate-affinity, uncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor agonist for the treatment of moderate and severe Alzheimer’s disease achieved sales of $1.4 billion during our 2012 fiscal year and, according to data published by IMS, as of April 30, 2012, Namenda achieved a 35.7% share of total prescriptions in the Alzheimer’s market. 7 Table of Contents In June 2010, Namenda XR™ was approved by the FDA for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Namenda XR is a 28mg once-daily, extended-release formulation of Namenda. We plan to launch the product in the second half of calendar 2013, to assure the continued success of the franchise. We licensed the exclusive rights to develop and market memantine in the United States from Merz GmbH & Co. (Merz) of Germany, the originator of the product. Namenda and Namenda XR are covered by a U.S. method of use patent that expires in April 2015. Under settlement agreements with generic manufacturers who challenged our patent, several companies have licenses to launch generic versions of Namenda three months before this patent expires, or earlier in certain circumstances. In addition to three years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity that expires in June 2013, and the patent described above, Namenda XR is covered by a U.S. method of use patent that relates to the memantine formulation that expires in 2029. Bystolic®: Bystolic (nebivolol), our beta-1 selective beta-blocker with vasodilating properties, achieved sales of $347.8 million in fiscal 2012 and according to data published by IMS, as of April 30, 2012, Bystolic’s market share was 4.0% of total prescriptions in the beta-blocker category. Like other beta-blockers, Bystolic decreases heart rate and myocardial contractility. We recently initiated a Phase III clinical trial to study a fixed-dose combination of Bystolic and the market’s leading angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) valsartan for the treatment of patients with hypertension. In January 2012, we began a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of approximately 3,750 patients to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Bystolic and valsartan in patients with stage 1 or 2 essential hypertension. We expect to report preliminary top-line data from the study around the middle of calendar 2013. We licensed exclusive United States and Canadian rights to Bystolic from Mylan Inc. (Mylan). Mylan licensed the U.S. and Canadian rights to Bystolic from Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V. (Janssen) and obtained Janssen’s consent to sub-license Bystolic to us in those territories. In February 2008, we amended our license agreement with Mylan to terminate Mylan’s further commercial rights for Bystolic in the United States and Canada and to reduce future payment obligations to Mylan. Pursuant to the amendment, we made a one-time cash payment of $370 million to Mylan and were obligated to pay Mylan its original contractual royalties for a period of three years, which ended in calendar 2010, at which time our royalty rate was substantially reduced. In March 2012, we entered into an agreement with Janssen, under which we acquired all U.S. patents and other U.S. and Canadian intellectual property for Bystolic, thereby eliminating all future royalties. Under the terms of the agreement, we made a one-time cash payment of $357 million to Janssen, and Janssen assigned to us all U.S. patents and other U.S. and Canadian know-how covering Bystolic. In addition to five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity that expires in December 2012, Bystolic is covered by a U.S. pharmaceutical composition of matter patent (the ‘040 patent) that expires in December 2021. In February 2012, we and Janssen received notification from several companies that they had filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) with Paragraph IV certifications seeking approval to market generic versions of Bystolic before the expiration of the ‘040 patent. We and Janssen jointly filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware and in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against these companies for infringement of the ‘040 patent. 8 Table of Contents Savella®: Savella (milnacipran HCl) our selective serotonin and norepinephrine inhibitor (SNRI) for the management of fibromyalgia achieved sales of $102.8 million in fiscal 2012 and according to data published by IMS, as of April 30, 2012, Savella’s market share was 6.9% of total prescriptions in the fibromyalgia category. Fibromyalgia is a chronic condition characterized by widespread pain and decreased physical function. We licensed the United States and Canadian rights to develop and commercialize Savella from Cypress Bioscience, Inc. (Cypress). Pursuant to our agreement, we are obligated to pay Cypress royalties based on net sales of Savella. In addition to five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity that expires in 2014, Savella is covered by two U.S. method of use patents that expire in 2021 (one of which is subject to patent term extension until 2023) and a U.S. method of use patent relating to Savella’s dosing schedule that expires in 2029. Canada: Contemporaneously with our buyout of the Bystolic royalties from Janssen, we and Janssen terminated our agreement for the commercialization by Janssen of both Bystolic and Savella in Canada. We have now established a wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary, which will take over the registration and commercialization of both products. Health Canada has accepted the regulatory filing for Bystolic and we plan on submitting regulatory filings for Viibryd and linaclotide in the second half of calendar 2012. Teflaro®: In October 2010, we received marketing approval from the FDA for Teflaro (ceftaroline fosamil) for the treatment of adults with community-acquired bacterial pneumonia, including cases caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae and with acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections, including cases caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Teflaro is a broad-spectrum, hospital-based injectable cephalosporin antibiotic with activity against Gram-positive bacteria and common Gram-negative bacteria. Teflaro achieved sales of $22.4 million in fiscal 2012. Teflaro is a member of the cephalosporin class of antibiotics, the most frequently prescribed class of antibiotics in the world. FDA approval was based on positive results from two Phase III studies of ceftaroline for complicated skin and skin structure infections and two Phase III studies for community-acquired bacterial pneumonia. The worldwide rights (excluding Japan) to Teflaro are in-licensed on an exclusive basis from Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited (Takeda). In addition to five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity, Teflaro is covered by a U.S. composition of matter patent that expires in 2022, including patent term extension. Teflaro is also covered by two U.S. patents that relate to the ceftaroline formulation that expire in 2021 and that may provide additional exclusivity. In August 2009, we entered into a license agreement with AstraZeneca AB (AstraZeneca) pursuant to which AstraZeneca will co-develop and commercialize Teflaro worldwide, excluding the United States, Canada and Japan. Under the terms of the agreement AstraZeneca is obligated to pay us royalties based on sales of Teflaro. 9 Table of Contents Avibactam: In December 2009, we entered into an agreement with AstraZeneca to acquire additional rights to avibactam (the International Nonproprietary Name for NXL104 as approved by the WHO) and amended the Company’s prior agreement with Novexel S.A. Pursuant to this amended agreement, the Company acquired full worldwide rights to the ceftaroline/avibactam combination while simultaneously licensing rights outside the United States, Canada and Japan to AstraZeneca. We also acquired co-development and exclusive commercialization rights in the United States and Canada to all other products containing avibactam including the ceftazidime/avibactam combination. Avibactam is a novel broad-spectrum beta-lactamase inhibitor designed to be co-administered intravenously with select antibiotics to enhance their spectrum of activity by overcoming beta-lactamase-related antibacterial resistance. Avibactam is currently being developed in combination with ceftaroline (Teflaro) and ceftazidime. Ceftazidime is a cephalosporin antibiotic having a different spectrum of activity compared to ceftaroline. The ceftaroline/avibactam combination is currently being studied in Phase II clinical trials conducted by Forest. Data from two Phase II trials for ceftazidime/avibactam in patients with complicated intra-abdominal infections (cIAI) and complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) demonstrated that ceftazidime/avibactam achieved high clinical cure rates and was well tolerated in patients with cIAI and cUTI. Based on the results of these studies, we and AstraZeneca initiated a Phase III study for ceftazidime/avibactam in patients with cIAI in December 2011 and will initiate a Phase III study for patients with cUTI in the first half of calendar 2012. Under the terms of the agreement, we will be obligated to pay half of certain future milestones if development is successfully completed. Avibactam inhibits several classes of bacterial enzymes called beta-lactamases that break down and inactivate beta-lactam antibiotics (in particular penicillins and cephalosporins) making the pathogens producing these enzymes resistant to these antibiotics. Beta-lactamase inhibition represents a mechanism for counteracting this resistance and enhancing the broad-spectrum activity of beta-lactam antibiotics. The ceftazidime/avibactam and ceftaroline/avibactam combination products will each receive three years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity upon approval. In addition, avibactam is covered by a U.S. composition of matter patent that expires in 2022, subject to possible patent term extension. European Cystic Fibrosis Franchise: In February 2012, we were granted European Medicines Agency (EMA) approval to market Colobreathe®. Colobreathe is a novel dry powder inhaler developed by Forest containing colistin, indicated for the treatment of chronic lung infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa in cystic fibrosis patients aged 6 years and older. We plan to begin marketing Colobreathe in four European countries by mid 2012, followed by other European markets in late 2012 and early 2013. In December 2010, we entered into an agreement with Grünenthal GmbH (Grünenthal) pursuant to which we acquired all rights held by Grünenthal for colistin and reacquired all rights previously licensed by us to Grünenthal for Colobreathe. Colistin is an antibiotic used to treat the principal bacterial infections in cystic fibrosis patients and is currently marketed by Forest in a nebulized presentation in the United Kingdom and Ireland as Colomycin®. This transaction and the approval to market Colobreathe in Europe enable us to expand our European cystic fibrosis franchise and become a major distributor of colistin in Europe. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid Grünenthal approximately $100 million, of which approximately $70 million was paid in fiscal 2011, and the balance was paid in fiscal 2012. Lexapro®: Lexapro (escitalopram oxalate), our single isomer version of citalopram HBr, for the treatment of MDD in adults and adolescents and generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults, achieved sales of $2.1 billion and accounted for 48% of our sales in fiscal 2012. In March 2012, Mylan launched the authorized generic version of Lexapro and we receive sales based royalties. Sales of Lexapro accounted for 55% and 58% of our sales for fiscal years ended 2011 and 2010, respectively. 10 Table of Contents Cariprazine: In November 2004, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Gedeon Richter Plc. (Richter), based in Budapest, Hungary, for the development of and exclusive United States rights to Richter's cariprazine and related compounds. Cariprazine is an oral D2/D3 partial agonist being developed as an atypical antipsychotic for the treatment of schizophrenia, acute mania associated with bipolar depression, bipolar depression and as an adjunct treatment for MDD. In February 2012, we reported positive top-line results from two Phase III studies of cariprazine for the treatment of acute exacerbation of schizophrenia. For the primary endpoint in each study, the Positive And Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), the data showed that cariprazine-treated patients experienced significant symptom improvement compared to placebo-treated patients. All doses showed statistically significant separation from placebo starting at week 2 and at each subsequent time point with the higher dose showing separation as early as week 1 of treatment. The results of these two studies were consistent with the results of a previously completed placebo-controlled Phase II(b) fixed-dose study in this population. During the current fiscal year, we also reported top-line results from two Phase III studies of cariprazine in patients with acute mania associated with bipolar disorder. In both studies the primary endpoint was the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS). The data from both studies showed that cariprazine-treated patients with acute manic episodes experienced significant improvements in symptoms compared to placebo-treated patients as early as day four of treatment in the first study and day five of treatment in the second study, and at each subsequent time point studied. We expect to file an NDA with the FDA for both of these indications in the fourth quarter of calendar 2012. Under the terms of the agreement with Richter, we will be obligated to pay future milestone payments if development and commercialization are successfully completed. We will also be obligated to pay Richter a royalty based on net sales of the product. Our license grants us exclusive development and commercialization rights in the United States and Canada. We will collaborate with Richter in product development and will jointly fund such development activities. In addition to five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity which would be granted upon approval, cariprazine is covered by a U.S. composition of matter patent that expires in 2027, subject to possible patent term extension. Levomilnacipran: In December 2008, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Pierre Fabre Médicament (Pierre Fabre) for the development and commercialization of levomilnacipran (F2695) in the United States and Canada. Levomilnacipran is a once-daily, selective norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake inhibitor, two neurotransmitters known to play an essential role in regulating mood, and is being developed for the treatment of MDD. 11 Table of Contents In April 2012, we reported positive results from the third Phase III randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose clinical trial evaluating the efficacy, safety and tolerability of levomilnacipran compared to placebo in adult patients with MDD. Following a 1-week single-blind placebo run-in period, 568 men and women, 18-75 years of age, were randomized to receive either levomilnacipran 40mg or 80mg once-daily or placebo for eight weeks. This was followed by an additional 1-week double-blind down-taper period. All patients participating in the study met the criteria for recurrent MDD as defined by the DSM-IV-TR, and had a minimum score of 26 on the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale-Clinician Rated (MADRS-CR). The average baseline score among participating patients was 31 on the MADRS-CR. Levomilnacipran was generally well-tolerated in this study. These study results are part of an ongoing development program for levomilnacipran, which includes two additional Phase III studies that demonstrated statistically significant improvement over placebo. In another Phase III study, levomilnacipran consistently demonstrated improvement relative to placebo over the course of the trial, however, the overall difference observed between the drug-treated and the placebo-treated patients was not statistically significant. Based on the overall success of the development program, we plan to file an NDA for levomilnacipran with the FDA in the third quarter of calendar 2012. Under the terms of our agreement, we will be obligated to pay Pierre Fabre future milestone payments upon successful development of levomilnacipran. We have assumed responsibility for the clinical development and commercialization of levomilnacipran in the United States and Canada, while Pierre Fabre funded all pre-clinical development and will also fund all drug substance manufacturing activities. Levomilnacipran is an enantiomer of milnacipran and is covered by a U.S. method of use patent that expires in 2023, subject to possible patent term extension. We also anticipate that under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Acts of 2007, (FDAAA) levomilnacipran will qualify for five years of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity upon approval. GRT 6005: In December 2010, we entered into a license agreement with Grünenthal for the co-development and commercialization of GRT 6005 and its follow-on compound GRT 6006, small molecule analgesic compounds in development for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic pain. GRT 6005 and GRT 6006 are novel first-in-class compounds with unique pharmacological and pharmacokinetic profiles that may enhance their effect in certain pain conditions. The unique mode of action of these compounds builds on the ORL-1 receptor and, supported by the established mu opioid receptor, is particularly suitable for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic pain. GRT 6005 has successfully completed initial proof-of-concept studies in nociceptive and neuropathic pain with further Phase II studies planned prior to initiation of Phase III studies. Both compounds are covered by a U.S. composition of matter patent that expires in November 2023, subject to possible patent term extension. Under the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment to Grünenthal of $66.1 million, and may be obligated to pay additional development and commercialization milestones and royalties on net sales of the product. Pursuant to the agreement, we have exclusive rights in the United States and Canada with an option to co-promote in Europe. Grünenthal has an option to co-promote in the United States and Canada. 12 Table of Contents TTP399: In June 2010, we entered into a license agreement with TransTech Pharma, Inc. (TransTech) for the development and commercialization of TTP399, a functionally liver selective glucokinase activator discovered and being developed by TransTech for the treatment of Type II diabetes. Early Phase I testing suggests that pharmacological enhancement of glucokinase activity may lower blood glucose in diabetic patients. We recently initiated a Phase II clinical program. Under the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment of $50 million to TransTech and will also be obligated to pay TransTech additional milestone payments upon the successful development and commercialization of TTP399. We will pay TransTech royalties on worldwide product sales and will be responsible for development and commercialization costs. We received exclusive worldwide rights excluding the Middle East and North Africa to TTP399. TTP399 is covered by a U.S. composition of matter patent that expires in 2025, subject to possible patent term extension. Azimilide: In April 2011, we entered into an agreement with Blue Ash Therapeutics, LLC (Blue Ash) pursuant to which we acquired the worldwide rights to azimilide, a novel class III antiarrhythmic agent developed by Proctor & Gamble Pharmaceuticals. Azimilide has been studied in over 5,300 patients to investigate its potential as an antiarrhythmic agent. Based on its mechanism of action and results of clinical trials, azimilide was determined to be best suited for use in patients with a history of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias and who have an implantable cardioverter defibrillator. In 2006, following submission of data from the SHIELD 1 Phase III clinical study, the FDA, under its then operable review practices, issued an Approvable Letter requesting an additional clinical trial for azimilide. In 2010, the FDA agreed to one additional Phase III study to support a regulatory submission for azimilide in the U.S. The SHIELD 2 study was initiated in November 2011 and is being conducted under a Special Protocol Assessment with the FDA. Pursuant to the agreement, we made an upfront payment of $40 million to Blue Ash and will be obligated to make future milestone payments upon the successful commercialization of azimilide and to pay royalties based on net sales of the product. We will be responsible for all future development and commercialization costs. As a new chemical entity, azimilide will be eligible for five and ten years of exclusivity in the U.S. and Europe, respectively, commencing upon approval. While the composition of matter patent for azimilide will expire in 2012, other patent applications have been filed with respect to azimilide which may further extend its period of exclusivity. RGH-618: In November 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement for the development of RGH-618 (mGLuR1/5 compounds) with Richter. RGH-618 involves a series of novel compounds that target metabotropic glutamate receptors and are agonists which represent novel potential agents for the treatment of anxiety, depression and other central nervous system (CNS) conditions. In March 2012, we initiated a Phase I study in healthy volunteers of RGH-618. Pursuant to the agreement, we made an upfront payment to Richter and will be obligated to make milestone payments based upon the achievement of development objectives in addition to sales based royalties. We will have exclusive marketing rights in North America while Richter will retain exclusive rights in Europe and countries comprising the former Soviet Union. The two companies will share rights in other countries. 13 Table of Contents Share Repurchase Program On May 18, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the 2010 Share Repurchase Program for up to 50 million shares of common stock. The authorization became effective immediately and has no set expiration date. On June 3, 2011, we entered into an agreement with Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC (MSCO) to repurchase $500 million of our common stock utilizing an accelerated share repurchase transaction (June 2011 ASR). As of March 31, 2012, we received 11.8 million shares under the June 2011 ASR. All remaining shares under the June 2011 ASR, if any, up to a maximum of 1.7 million shares, will be received upon final settlement of the transaction, which is scheduled for no later than the second quarter of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013. The exact number of additional shares, if any, to be delivered to us under the transaction, will be based on the volume weighted-average price of Forest's stock during the term of the June 2011 ASR, subject to a minimum and maximum price for the purchased shares. On August 15, 2011, we entered into an additional agreement with MSCO to repurchase $350 million of our common stock utilizing an accelerated share repurchase transaction (August 2011 ASR). As of March 31, 2012, we received 9.7 million shares under the August 2011 ASR. All remaining shares under the August 2011 ASR, if any, up to a maximum of 1.2 million shares, will be received upon final settlement of the transaction, which is scheduled for no later than the second quarter of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013. The exact number of additional shares, if any, to be delivered to us under the transaction, will be based on the volume weighted-average price of Forest’s stock during the term of the August 2011 ASR, subject to a minimum and maximum price for the purchased shares. No additional shares were repurchased under the 2010 Share Repurchase Program during fiscal 2012 and as of May 24, 2012, 17.3 million shares were available for repurchase under the repurchase program. We may make share repurchases from time to time in the open market or through private transactions, including additional accelerated share repurchase transactions. Board of Directors During the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, held on August 18, 2011, three new independent directors were elected to serve on Forest’s Board of Directors: Christopher J. Coughlin, former Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Tyco International; Gerald M. Lieberman, former President and Chief Operating Officer of AllianceBernstein; and Brenton L. Saunders, Chief Executive Officer of Bausch & Lomb. William Candee and George Cohan, two of our long-standing directors retired from the Board. These actions increased the Board of Directors from nine to ten members. Principal Products We actively promote in the United States those branded products which we believe have the most patient benefit and potential for growth, and which enable our salesforces to concentrate on groups of physicians who are high prescribers of our products. Such products include: Namenda, our NMDA antagonist for the treatment of moderate and severe Alzheimer's disease; Bystolic, our beta-blocker for the treatment of hypertension; Savella, our SNRI for the management of fibromyalgia; Teflaro, a broad-spectrum, hospital-based injectable cephalosporin antibiotic for the treatment of adults with skin and skin structure infections and community-acquired bacterial pneumonia; Daliresp, our PDE4 inhibitor as a treatment to reduce the risk of COPD exacerbations in patients with severe COPD; and Viibryd, an SSRI and a 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist for the treatment of adults with MDD. 14 Table of Contents Namenda is marketed under agreements between Forest and Merz dated June 28, 2000 (collectively, the Merz License). A copy of the Merz License has been filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended March 31, 2004 and the following description of the terms of this agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the agreement which has been filed with the SEC and such agreement is incorporated herein by reference. Under the terms of the Merz License, the Company was granted exclusive U.S. marketing (and related manufacturing) rights with respect to products containing memantine for use in the treatment of vascular dementia and Alzheimer’s disease, and Merz has agreed to supply all of Forest’s requirements of the active pharmaceutical ingredient memantine. The Merz License requires that Forest pay to Merz a percentage of its net revenues from the sale of Namenda as a royalty. The agreement expires in 2028. The agreement may be terminated by either party in the event the other party breaches any of its obligations under the agreement and such breach continues beyond any applicable cure period (as determined by an arbitration proceeding). In the event of such a termination by Merz, Forest would lose all of its rights under the agreement. Upon expiration of the agreement (or upon earlier termination of the agreement by reason of a breach by Merz), Forest would continue to have a perpetual but non-exclusive license to market the product in the U.S. and exclusive rights to use the Namenda trademark subject to the payment of a trademark royalty. Sales of Namenda, launched in December 2003, accounted for 32% of our sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 and 30% and 29%, of our sales for fiscal years ended 2011 and 2010, respectively. Lexapro was developed and is marketed under agreements with H. Lundbeck A/S (Lundbeck) entered into in 1998 (collectively, the Lundbeck License). The license agreement and related license and supply agreement have been filed as Exhibits 10.17 and 10.18, respectively, to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended March 31, 2002 and the following description of the terms of these agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copies of the agreements which have been filed with the SEC and such agreements are incorporated herein by reference. Under the terms of the Lundbeck License, the Company was granted exclusive U.S. marketing (and related manufacturing) rights to the S-enantiomer form of the compound known as citalopram and to certain related patents and technology (excluding certain rights with respect to indications that are not material). Lundbeck supplies Forest with all of its requirements of the licensed compound and licenses certain trademark rights to Forest for which the Company pays Lundbeck product and trademark royalties calculated as fixed percentages of its net sales of the product. Lundbeck may elect to discontinue supply on not less than three years prior written notice to Forest but Forest will remain obligated to make certain payments to Lundbeck for so long as it is marketing products under the Lundbeck License. The initial term of the Lundbeck License expired in 2010, subject to successive five-year renewal terms unless terminated by either party, and the agreement is currently in its first renewal term. Forest will continue to have exclusive U.S. marketing (and related manufacturing) rights following any expiration of the agreement or any termination of the agreement by Forest by reason of a breach by Lundbeck, subject to its obligation to continue to pay applicable product and trademark royalties. The agreement may be terminated by either party in the event of bankruptcy or a material default (as determined by an arbitration proceeding) by the other. In addition, each of the parties has certain rights to terminate the Lundbeck License in the event that the other party undergoes a change in control. 15 Table of Contents As noted above, the composition of matter patent for Lexapro has expired and sales of Lexapro have and are expected to continue to decline as a result of competition from generic formulations of the product. Marketing In the United States, we market our products through our domestic salesforces, currently numbering approximately 3,300 personnel, which detail products directly to physicians, pharmacies, hospitals, managed care and other healthcare organizations. In the United Kingdom, our Forest Laboratories UK subsidiary’s salesforce, currently 52 personnel, markets its products directly. Our products are sold elsewhere through independent distributors. Competition The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive as to the sale of products, research for new or improved products and the development and application of competitive drug formulation and delivery technologies. There are numerous companies in the United States and abroad engaged in the manufacture and sale of both proprietary and generic drugs of the kind which we sell, many of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do. We also face competition for the acquisition or licensing of new product opportunities from other companies. In addition, the marketing of pharmaceutical products is increasingly affected by the growing role of managed care organizations in the provision of health services. Such organizations negotiate with pharmaceutical manufacturers for highly competitive prices for pharmaceutical products in equivalent therapeutic categories, including certain of our principal promoted products. Failure to be included or to have a preferred position in a managed care organization’s drug formulary could result in decreased prescriptions of a manufacturer’s products. Another competitive challenge that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, we may lose a major portion of sales of such product in a very short period. Generic pharmaceutical manufacturers also challenge product patents before their expiry. Generic competitors operate without our large research and development expenses and our costs of conveying medical information about our novel products to the medical community. In addition, the FDA approval process generally exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. This means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent protection and charge much less for their product. In addition, many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including Medicaid. Laws in the United States generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. 16 Table of Contents Government Regulation The pharmaceutical industry is subject to comprehensive government regulation which substantially increases the difficulty and cost incurred in obtaining the approval to market newly proposed drug products and maintaining the approval to market existing drugs. In the United States, products which we develop, manufacture or sell are subject to regulation by the FDA, principally under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as well as by other federal and state agencies. The FDA regulates all aspects of the testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising and promotion of new and established drugs, including the monitoring of compliance with good manufacturing practice regulations. Non-compliance with applicable requirements can result in fines and other sanctions, including the initiation of product seizures, injunction actions and criminal prosecutions based on practices that violate statutory requirements. In addition, administrative remedies can involve voluntary recall of products as well as the withdrawal of approval of products in accordance with due process procedures. Similar regulations exist in most foreign countries in which our products are manufactured or sold. In many foreign countries, such as the United Kingdom, reimbursement under national health insurance programs frequently require that manufacturers and sellers of pharmaceutical products obtain government approval of initial prices and increases if the ultimate consumer is to be eligible for reimbursement for the cost of such products. On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (which was subsequently amended on March 30, 2010 by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010), which is more commonly known as the Healthcare Reform Bill. The stated goals of this legislation include reducing the number of uninsured Americans, improving the quality of healthcare delivery and reducing projected healthcare costs. Many of the strategies included in this law will impact manufacturers of branded pharmaceutical products. Two categories of provisions in the law which have significant impact to Forest are those which will impact rebates paid to public and private payers and those which might impact patient access to pharmaceutical products. The former category, containing provisions which took effect in 2010, includes an increase in the Medicaid mandatory rebate (from 15.1% to 23.1% for branded pharmaceutical products), provision of Medicaid Fee-for-Service rebates to drugs adjudicated through Medicaid Managed Care Plans, changes in the calculation of certain pricing information reported to the government and extension of favorable government pricing to additional entities. This category also includes manufacturer rebates to certain patients in the Medicare Part D coverage gap and a non-deductible annual fee payable to the federal government based on a company’s prior calendar year share of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs, both of which were implemented in 2011. During the past several years, the FDA, in accordance with its standard practice, has conducted a number of inspections of our manufacturing facilities, our development facilities, our contracted investigator sites and our contract research organizations. Following these inspections, the FDA called our attention to certain “Good Manufacturing, Laboratory and Clinical Practices” compliance and record keeping deficiencies. We have responded to the FDA’s comments and modified our procedures to comply with the requests made by the FDA. 17 Table of Contents The cost of human healthcare products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies and private organizations in the United States and other countries. In the United States, most states have enacted generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer’s version of a drug for the one prescribed. Federal and state governments continue to press efforts to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid programs, including restrictions on amounts agencies will reimburse for the use of products. In addition, several states have adopted prescription drug benefit programs which supplement Medicaid programs and are seeking discounts or rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers to subsidize such programs. Failure to provide such discounts or rebates may lead to restrictions upon the availability of a manufacturer’s products in health programs, including Medicaid, run by such states. Under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (OBRA), manufacturers must pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates on Medicaid purchases for reimbursement of prescription drugs under state Medicaid plans. Federal Medicaid reimbursement for drug products of original NDA-holders is denied if less expensive generic versions are available from other manufacturers. In addition, the Federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid. The DRG system entitles a healthcare facility to a fixed reimbursement based on discharge diagnoses rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures for many healthcare products. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act of 1992, the FDA has imposed fees on various aspects of the approval, manufacture and sale of prescription drugs. In April 2003, the Federal Office of the Inspector General published guidance for pharmaceutical manufacturers with respect to compliance programs to assure manufacturer compliance with federal laws and programs relating to healthcare. In addition, several states have adopted laws and regulations requiring certain specific disclosures with respect to our compliance program and our practices relating to interactions with physicians and other healthcare providers. We maintain a company-wide compliance program to assure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, as well as the standards of professional bodies governing interactions between pharmaceutical manufacturers and physicians, and believe we are in compliance with all legal requirements and standards. A prescription-drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries was established pursuant to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. Under the program, pharmaceutical benefit managers and health programs offer discounted prices on prescription drugs to qualified Medicare recipients reflecting discounts negotiated with manufacturers where applicable. The failure of a manufacturer to offer discounts to these programs could result in reduced use of the manufacturer’s products. From time to time, we have implemented revised product labeling in accordance with FDA requirements. There can be no assurance that such labeling changes or changes which may be required by subsequent rulemaking will not have an adverse effect upon the marketing of our products. In addition, the FDA continues to review various aspects of our NDAs and product labeling for approved products as we submit supplements seeking approval for new indications or dosage forms, labeling changes or to comply with FDA requests, and at the agency’s own initiative in light of post-marketing experience. In connection with such reviews, the FDA may request labeling changes based on the data submitted by us or from other sources, including post-marketing experience data. Sometimes those requested changes may apply to an entire class of drugs which includes one of our products, and sometimes the changes requested may apply only to our product. In some cases, the labeling changes requested, if implemented, may adversely affect the prescribing of our products by physicians. If we believe changes requested by the FDA are not correct, we may submit further data and analyses to the FDA which may modify the agency’s position. There can be no assurance, however, that the FDA will ultimately agree with our position or that post-marketing clinical experience will not require labeling changes, either initiated by us or by the FDA, which may adversely affect our products’ acceptance and utilization. 18 Table of Contents In connection with the finalization of a previously reported settlement resolving all aspects of the investigations led by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the United States Attorney's Office (USAO) for the District of Massachusetts that began in January 2004 relating to past marketing and sales activities in connection with Celexa®, Lexapro, and Levothroid®, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the Office of Inspector General of Health and Human Services (OIG-HHS) in September 2010. The CIA requires us to maintain our current compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. The CIA also provides for an independent third-party review organization to assess and report on our compliance program. Failure to comply with the terms of the CIA could result in substantial penalties and potential exclusion from government health care programs. Principal Customers The following sets forth information with respect to the percentage of net sales accounted for by our principal customers: Customer 2012 2011 2010 McKesson Drug Company 36% 37% 36% Cardinal Health, Inc. 30% 32% 33% AmerisourceBergen Corporation 20% 20% 20% No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our net sales for the fiscal years presented. Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Area The Company and its subsidiaries, which are primarily located in the United States and Europe, operate in only one segment: the manufacture and marketing of ethical and other pharmaceutical products. Data regarding revenues from principal customers, net sales and long-lived assets for each of the last three fiscal years, where applicable, and information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate is presented in “Note 3 – Business operations” in the accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” incorporated by reference herein. Environmental Standards We anticipate that the effects of compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the discharge of materials into the environment will not have any material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Raw Materials The active pharmaceutical ingredients in our principal promoted products, including Namenda, Bystolic, Savella, Teflaro, Daliresp and Viibryd are patented or otherwise generally available to us only pursuant to contractual arrangements with our licensing partners. Other raw materials used by us are purchased in the open market. We have not experienced any significant shortage in supplies of active pharmaceutical ingredients or other raw materials. Product Liability Insurance We currently maintain $140 million of product liability coverage per “occurrence” and in the aggregate. Although in the past there have been product liability claims asserted against us, none for which we have been found liable, there can be no assurance that all potential claims which may be asserted against us in the future would be covered by our present insurance. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors”. 19 Table of Contents Research and Development During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, we recorded $796.9 million for research and development (R&D) expense, as compared to $715.9 million and $1.1 billion in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Included in R&D expense are payments made pursuant to licensing and acquisition agreements for new product opportunities where FDA approval has not yet been received. R&D expense for fiscal 2012 included an upfront payment of $40 million to Blue Ash for the worldwide rights to azimilide; R&D expense for fiscal 2011 included an upfront payment of $66.1 million to Grünenthal for the co-development and commercialization of GRT 6005 and its follow-on compound GRT 6006 and a $50 million upfront license payment to TransTech for the development and commercialization of TTP399. R&D expense for fiscal 2010 included a licensing payment of $229 million to AstraZeneca for additional rights to avibactam and the United States and Canadian rights to products containing avibactam, including ceftazidime/avibactam, a $100 million licensing payment to Nycomed for the United States rights to Daliresp, and a $75 million licensing payment to Almirall for the United States rights to LAS100977. Other R&D expenditures consist primarily of pre-clinical and clinical studies required to obtain approval of new products, as well as clinical studies designed to further differentiate our products from those of our competitors or to obtain additional labeling indications. Employees At March 31, 2012, we employed approximately 5,700 employees. Patents and Trademarks Forest seeks to obtain, where possible, patents and trademarks for our products in the United States and all countries of major marketing interest to Forest. We own or have licenses to a substantial number of patents and patent applications. Several of these patents, which expire during the period 2015 to 2021, are believed to be of material importance in the operation of Forest’s business. We believe that patents, licenses and trademarks (or related groups of patents, licenses, or trademarks) covering our marketed products are material in relation to our business as a whole. The following patents, licenses and trademarks are significant for our business: those related to Namenda (memantine hydrochloride), those related to Benicar (olmesartan medoxomil) and Benicar HCT (olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide), those related to Bystolic (nebivolol hydrochloride), those related to Savella (milnacipran hydrochloride), those related to Teflaro (ceftaroline fosamil), those related to Daliresp (roflumilast), and those related to Viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride). The principal U.S. method of use patent covering Namenda is licensed from Merz and expires in 2015. The U.S. pharmaceutical composition of matter patent covering Bystolic was acquired by us from Janssen in March 2012 and expires in 2021. The principal method of use patent covering Savella is licensed from Cypress and expires in 2021 (Cypress has submitted a patent term extension application to extend this patent until 2023). The U.S. composition of matter patent covering Teflaro is licensed from Takeda and expires in 2018 (Takeda has submitted a patent term extension application to extend this patent until 2022). The U.S. composition of matter patent covering Daliresp is licensed from Nycomed and expires in 2015 (Nycomed has filed a patent term extension application to extend this patent until 2020). The U.S. composition of matter patent covering Viibryd is licensed from Merck and expires in 2014 (Trovis Pharmaceuticals, LLC, a subsidiary of Clinical Data, has filed a patent term extension application to extend this patent until 2019). The U.S. composition of matter patent covering Benicar and Benicar HCT is owned by Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. (Sankyo) and expires in 2016. A U.S. method of use patent related to Benicar HCT expires in 2021. Forest and Sankyo are parties to a co-promotion agreement with respect to Benicar and Benicar HCT pursuant to which Forest will continue to receive contract revenues through March 2014. Litigation involving Forest’s patents covering Bystolic is discussed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. 20 Table of Contents When a product patent expires, the patent holder often loses effective market exclusivity for the product. This can result in a severe and rapid decline in sales of the formerly patented product, particularly in the United States. However, in some cases the innovator company may achieve exclusivity beyond the expiry of the product patent through manufacturing trade secrets, later-expiring patents on methods of use or formulations, or data-based exclusivity that may be available under pharmaceutical regulatory laws. We own or exclusively license various trademarks and trade names which we believe are of significant benefit to our business. Backlog - Seasonality Backlog of orders is not considered material to our business prospects. Our business is not seasonal in nature. Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in an industry which involves a number of significant risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The risks discussed herein and other risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face as described below and elsewhere. See “Item 1. Business” Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. One of Our Major Products Now Faces Generic Competition and Others May Face Generic Competition in the Near Future Forest depends upon patents to provide exclusive marketing rights for products. As product patents expire, we face strong competition from lower priced generic drugs. Loss of patent protection for one of our products typically leads to a rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. In the case of products that contribute significantly to sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flow. For the 2012 fiscal year, sales of Lexapro accounted for 48% of our net sales. With the expiration of the patent for Lexapro in March 2012, Lexapro now faces generic competition which has eroded and will continue to significantly erode sales and we expect will result in the loss of substantially all U.S. sales of Lexapro within the first full year of generic competition. In addition, Namenda, which accounted for 32% of our net sales in fiscal 2012, is expected to lose patent exclusivity in fiscal 2015. 21 Table of Contents Our Business Depends on Intellectual Property Protection. Our ability to generate the revenue necessary to support our investment in acquiring and developing new product opportunities, as well as the commitment of resources to successfully market our products, greatly depends on effective intellectual property protection to ensure we can take advantage of lawful market exclusivity. Manufacturers of generic products have strong incentives to challenge the patents which cover our principal products. While we believe that our patent portfolio, together with market exclusivity periods granted by the Hatch-Waxman Act, offers adequate exclusivity protection for our current products, there can be no assurance that some of our patents will not be determined to be invalid or unenforceable, resulting in unanticipated early generic competition for the affected product. For example and as disclosed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below and in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have recently brought actions for infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,545,040 (the ‘040 patent) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware and the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against several companies who have notified us that they have filed ANDAs with the FDA seeking to obtain approval to market generic versions of Bystolic before the ‘040 patent expires on December 21, 2021. Further, Synergy Pharmaceuticals has recently filed a request for Inter Partes Reexamination with the United States Patent and Trademark Office directed to U.S. Patent 7,704,947 (the ‘947 Patent), which covers a group of peptides that includes linaclotide and related molecules. The Patent and Trademark Office has not yet decided whether to order reexamination of this patent. The ‘947 Patent is one of several issued patents and pending applications, including a linaclotide composition of matter and methods of use patent (U.S. Patent 7,304,036) as well as additional patents and applications covering processes for making linaclotide, formulations, and dosing regimens, which we have licensed from Ironwood. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is possible that these agreements will be breached or that they will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. It is also possible that our trade secrets will become known or independently developed by our competitors. Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing our sales of that product. Availability of generic substitutes for our drugs may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the United States and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or enforce our patents, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. Our Business Model Currently Depends on the Successful In-Licensing or Acquisition of New Product Opportunities. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and launch new pharmaceutical products. Our pipeline of new products is currently dependent on the licensing and acquisition of new product opportunities. To successfully accomplish these transactions, we commit substantial effort and expense to seeking out, evaluating and negotiating collaboration arrangements and acquisitions. The competition for attractive product opportunities may require us to devote substantial resources to an opportunity with no assurance that such efforts will result in a commercially successful product. Our Business Could be Negatively Affected by the Performance of Our Collaboration Partners. Our principal products, as well as certain of our principal product development opportunities, involve strategic alliances with other companies. Our alliance partners typically possess significant patents or other technology which are licensed to us and remain significantly involved in product research and development activities and in the exclusive manufacture and supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients upon which our products are based. While some of our collaboration partners are large well-established companies, others are smaller companies, often in the “start-up” stage. A failure or inability of our partners to perform their collaboration obligations could materially negatively affect our operations or business plans. In addition, while our relationships with our strategic partners have been good, differences of opinion on significant matters arise from time to time. Any such differences of opinion, as well as disputes or conflicting corporate priorities, could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefits of the alliance. 22 Table of Contents If We Are Unable to Successfully Develop or Commercialize New Products, Our Operating Results May Suffer. Our future results of operations will depend to a significant degree upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new products. New product development is subject to a great deal of uncertainty, risk and expense. Promising pharmaceutical candidates may fail at various stages of the research and development process, often after a great deal of financial and other resources have been invested in their exploration and development. Even where pharmaceutical development is successfully completed, a product may fail to reach the market or have limited commercial success because the safety and efficacy profile achieved during the course of development is not as favorable as originally anticipated or is viewed by the marketplace as less favorable in comparison to new and competing therapies which may become available during the lengthy period of drug development. In addition, decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. We cannot state with certainty when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched; whether we will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. We must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover our substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose patent protection or are displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short-term or long-term would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial position and prospects. Post-Approval Clinical Trials and Developments Could Adversely Affect the Sales of our Products. As a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the FDA may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. The results generated in these trials could result in loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product. The FDAAA gives the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with FDA-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The FDA’s exercise of its authority under the FDAAA could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with additional post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. Post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. Further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of our products. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. Furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of our products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. Such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of our products. A violation of the law may result in substantial civil and criminal monetary and other penalties. 23 Table of Contents Many of Our Principal Products and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients are Only Available From a Single Manufacturing Source. Many of the proprietary active ingredients in our principal products are available to us only pursuant to contractual supply arrangements with our collaboration partners. In addition, our manufacturing facilities in the Republic of Ireland are the exclusive qualified manufacturing facilities for finished dosage forms of our principal products, including Namenda, Bystolic and Savella. Difficulties or delays in the product supply chain, both within and outside of our control, or the inability to locate and qualify third party alternative sources, if necessary, in a timely manner, could lead to shortages or long-term product unavailability, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Regulatory Compliance Issues Could Materially Affect Our Financial Position and Results of Operations. The marketing and promotional practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with prescribers of pharmaceutical products and other healthcare decision makers, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities. Such regulation takes the form of explicit governmental regulation and guidance, as well as practices established by healthcare and industry codes of conduct. In addition, federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities actively seek to enforce such regulations and can assert both civil and criminal theories of enforcement not specifically prescribed by published regulations or standards and accordingly with little objective guidance to permit voluntary industry compliance. Such enforcement can include actions initially commenced by “whistleblowers” under the Federal False Claims Act which provides incentives to whistleblowers based upon penalties successfully imposed as a result of the investigation or related legal proceedings or settlements. There can be no assurance that the resolution of pending or future claims, as well as the resolution of private party (such as consumers or third-party payer) litigation which may be associated with any such claims or their resolution, will not entail material fines, penalties or settlement payments. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for information about pending government investigations and litigation concerning our marketing and promotional practices and certain third-party payer litigation pending against us. We are now operating under a CIA with the OIG-HHS that requires us to maintain our current compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. The CIA also provides for an independent third-party review organization to assess and report on our compliance program. While we expect to fully and timely comply with all of our obligations under the CIA, the failure to do so could result in substantial penalties and our being excluded from government healthcare programs. In addition, the manufacture, testing, storage and shipment of pharmaceutical products are highly regulated and the failure to comply with regulatory standards can lead to product withdrawals or seizures or to delays in FDA approval of products pending resolution of such issues. Moreover, even when a manufacturer has fully complied with applicable regulatory standards, products manufactured and distributed may ultimately fail to comply with applicable specifications, leading to product withdrawals or recalls. 24 Table of Contents Pharmaceutical Cost-Containment Initiatives May Negatively Affect Our Net Income. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 included a prescription drug benefit for Medicare participants. Companies that negotiate prices on behalf of Medicare drug plans will have a significant degree of purchasing power and we expect pricing pressure as a result. Our net income also continues to be impacted by cost-containment initiatives adopted by managed care organizations and pharmaceutical benefit managers which negotiate discounted prices from pharmaceutical manufacturers in order to secure placement on formularies adopted by such organizations or their health plan or employer customers. Failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization of our products. In addition, some states have implemented, and other states are considering, price controls or patient-access constraints under the Medicaid program and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid eligible. Healthcare Reform in the United States May Adversely Affect Our Revenues. The United States healthcare industry has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action. Recently, major United States healthcare reform has been adopted into law which, in addition to other measures, impacts rebates paid to public and private payers and affects patient access to pharmaceutical products. The reform measures call for, among other things, an increase in certain Medicare drug rebates paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers and an industry fee imposed on pharmaceutical manufacturers according to the individual manufacturer’s relative percentage of total industry sales to specified government programs. At this time no assurances can be given that these measures, or any other measures included in the reform acts, will not have an adverse effect on our revenues in the future. Our Business, and in Particular the Treatment of CNS Disorders, Presents Risk of Product Liability Claims. As more fully discussed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”, we are subject to approximately 93 legal actions asserting product liability claims relating to the use of Celexa or Lexapro. These cases include claims for wrongful death from suicide or injury from suicide attempts while using Celexa or Lexapro as well as claims that Celexa or Lexapro caused birth defects or persistent pulmonary hypertension in newborns (PPHN). Further, while we believe there is no merit to the cases which have been brought against us, litigation is inherently subject to uncertainties and there can be no assurance that we will not be required to expend substantial amounts in the defense or resolution of some of these matters. We Face Substantial Competition from Other Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Generic Product Distributors. Our industry is characterized by significant technological innovation and change. Many of our competitors are conducting research and development activities in therapeutic areas served by our products and our product-development candidates. The introduction of novel therapies as alternatives to our products may negatively impact our revenues or reduce the value of specific product development programs. In addition, generic alternatives to branded products, including alternatives to brands of other manufacturers in therapeutic categories where we market products, may be preferred by doctors, patients or third-party payers. 25 Table of Contents The Effective Rate of Taxation upon Our Results of Operations is Dependent on Multi-National Tax Considerations. A portion of our earnings is taxed at more favorable rates applicable to the activities undertaken by our subsidiaries based or incorporated in Europe. Changes in tax laws or in their application or interpretation, such as to the transfer pricing between Forest’s non-U.S. operations and the U.S., could increase our effective tax rate and negatively affect our results of operations. Our transfer pricing is the subject of an ongoing audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for fiscal years 2004, 2005 and 2006. This audit is in the early stages and no substantive transfer pricing discussions for the years under audit have occurred. If the IRS prevails in a position that increases the U.S. tax liability in excess of the established reserves, it is likely that the IRS could make similar claims for years subsequent to fiscal 2006 which could be material. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference herein. Our Consolidated Financial Statements May be Impacted in Future Periods Based on the Accuracy of Our Valuations of Our Acquired Businesses. Accounting for business combinations involves complex and subjective valuations of the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity, and in some instances contingent consideration, which is recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements pursuant to the standards applicable for business combinations in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Differences between the inputs and assumptions used in the valuations and actual results could have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements in future periods. We Have Significant Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Consequently, Potential Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangibles May Significantly Impact Our Profitability. As of March 31, 2012, goodwill and other intangibles represented approximately 38% of our total assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Additionally, goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are subject to an impairment test at least annually. Events giving rise to impairment are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical industry and cannot be predicted. As a result of the significance of goodwill and other intangible assets, our results of operations and financial position in a future period could be negatively impacted should an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets occur. We Could be Adversely Affected by Violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Similar Worldwide Anti-Bribery Laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits certain individuals and entities, including U.S. publicly traded companies, from promising, offering, or giving anything of value to foreign officials with the corrupt intent of influencing the foreign official for the purpose of helping the company obtain or retain business or gain any improper advantage. The FCPA also imposes specific recordkeeping and internal controls requirements on U.S. publicly traded companies. As noted above, our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with government officials, including officials of foreign governments. Additionally, in many countries outside the U.S., the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by the government and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our payments to these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the FCPA. Recently the SEC and DOJ have increased their FCPA enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 