ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are Substantially Dependent on Sales of Our Two Principal Products. For the 2007 fiscal year, sales of Lexapro and Namenda accounted for 66.2 % and 20.7%, respectively, of our net sales. Any unexpected negative development with respect to such products (for example, loss of market exclusivity or an unexpected safety or efficacy concern) would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In July 2006, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware determined that our patent covering escitalopram, the active ingredient in Lexapro, is valid and enforceable in connection with an infringement action brought by us and Lundbeck against Teva Pharmaceuticals. The decision in that case has been appealed by Teva to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. A decision is expected prior to the 2007 calendar year end. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings". Pharmaceutical Research is Expensive and Uncertain. New product development is subject to a great deal of uncertainty, risk and expense. Promising pharmaceutical candidates may fail at various stages of the research and development process, often after a great deal of financial and other resources have been invested in their exploration and development. Further, even where pharmaceutical development is successfully completed, a product may fail to reach the market or have limited commercial success because the safety and efficacy profile achieved during the course of development is not as favorable as originally anticipated or favorable in light of new and competing therapies which may become available during the lengthy period of drug development. Regulatory Compliance Issues Could Materially Affect Our Operations. The marketing and promotional practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with prescribers of pharmaceutical products and other healthcare decision makers, are subject to extensive regulation. Such regulation takes the form of explicit governmental regulation and guidance, as well as practices established by healthcare and industry codes of conduct. In addition, both Federal and state governmental authorities actively seek to enforce such regulations and can assert both civil and criminal theories of enforcement not specifically prescribed by published regulations or standards and accordingly with little objective guidance to permit voluntary industry compliance. Such enforcement can include actions initially commenced by "whistleblowers" under the Federal False Claims Act which provides incentives to whistleblowers based upon penalties successfully imposed as a result of the investigation or related legal proceedings or settlements. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" for information about pending government investigations of our marketing and promotional practices. There can be no assurance that the resolution of pending or future claims, as well as the resolution of shareholder or consumer litigation which may be associated with any such claims or their resolution, will not entail material fines, penalties or settlement payments. In addition, the manufacturing, testing, storage and shipment of pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and the failure to comply with regulatory standards can lead to product withdrawals or seizures or to delays in FDA approval of products pending resolution of such issues. Moreover, even when a manufacturer has fully complied with applicable regulatory standards, products manufactured and distributed may ultimately fail to comply with applicable specifications, leading to product withdrawals or recalls. Our Business Depends on Intellectual Property Protection. Our ability to generate the returns necessary to support our investment in acquiring and developing new product opportunities, as well as the commitment of resources to successfully market our products, greatly depends on effective intellectual property protection to ensure we can take advantage of lawful market exclusivity. Manufacturers of generic products have strong incentives to challenge the patents which cover our principal products. While we believe that our patent portfolio, together with market exclusivity periods granted by the Hatch-Waxman Act, offers adequate exclusivity protection for our current products, there can be no assurance that some of our patents may not be determined to be invalid or unenforceable, resulting in unanticipated early generic competition for the affected product. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" for a description of pending patent litigation involving Lexapro, our principal product. Our Business Model Currently Depends on the Successful In-Licensing or Acquisition of New Product Opportunities. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and launch new pharmaceutical products. Our pipeline of new products is currently dependent on the licensing and acquisition of new product opportunities. To successfully accomplish these transactions, we commit substantial effort and expense to seeking out, evaluating and negotiating collaboration arrangements and acquisitions. The competition for attractive product opportunities may require us to devote substantial resources to an opportunity with no assurance that such efforts will result in a commercially successful product. Pharmaceutical Cost-Containment Initiatives May Negatively Affect Our Net Income. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 included a prescription drug benefit for Medicare participants. Companies that negotiate prices on behalf of Medicare drug plans will have a significant degree of purchasing power and we expect pricing pressure as a result. In addition, our net income continues to be impacted by cost-containment initiatives adopted by managed care organizations and pharmaceutical benefit managers which negotiate discounted prices from pharmaceutical manufacturers in order to secure placement on formularies adopted by such organizations or their health-plan or employer customers. Failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization of our products. We face Substantial Competition from Other Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Generic Product Distributors. Our industry is characterized by significant technological innovation and change. Many of our competitors are conducting research and development activities in therapeutic areas served by our products and our product-development candidates. The introduction of novel therapies as alternatives to our products may negatively impact our revenues or reduce the value of specific product development programs. In addition, generic alternatives to branded products, including alternatives to brands of other manufacturers in therapeutic categories where we market products, may be preferred by doctors, patients or third-party payors. Our Business, and in Particular the Treatment of CNS Disorders, Presents Risk of Product Liability Claims. As more fully discussed in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings", we are subject to approximately 45 legal actions asserting product liability claims relating to the use of Celexa or Lexapro. These cases include claims for wrongful death or injury from suicide or suicide attempts while using Celexa or Lexapro. We believe that suicide and related events are inherent in the symptoms and consequences of major depressive disorder and therefore these types of occurrences are not unexpected from patients who are being treated for such condition, including patients who may be using our products. While we believe there is no merit to the cases which have been brought against us, litigation is inherently subject to uncertainties and there can be no assurance that we will not be required to expend substantial amounts in the defense or resolution of some of these matters. The Effective Rate of Taxation upon Our Results of Operations is Dependent on Multi-National Tax Considerations. A portion of our earnings is taxed at more favorable rates applicable to the activities undertaken by our subsidiaries based or incorporated in the Republic of Ireland. Changes in tax laws or in their application or interpretation, such as to the transfer pricing between Forest’s non-U.S. operations and the United States, could increase our effective tax rate and negatively affect our results of operations. Our Business Could be Negatively Affected By the Performance of Our Collaboration Partners. Our principal products, as well as certain of our principal product development opportunities, involve strategic alliances with other companies. Our alliance partners typically possess significant patents or other technology which are licensed to us and remain significantly involved in product research and development activities and in the exclusive manufacture and supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients upon which our products are based. While some of our collaboration partners are large well-established companies, others are smaller companies, often in the "start-up" stage. A failure or inability of our partners to perform their collaboration obligations could materially negatively affect our operations or business plans. In addition, while our relationships with our strategic partners have been good, differences of opinion upon significant matters arise from time to time. Any such differences of opinion, as well as disputes or conflicting corporate priorities, could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefits of the alliance. Many of our Principal Products and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients are Only Available From a Single Manufacturing Source As described immediately above, many of the proprietary active ingredients in our principal products are available to us only pursuant to contractual supply arrangements with our collaboration partners. In addition, our manufacturing facilities in the Republic of Ireland are the exclusive qualified manufacturing facilities for finished dosage forms of our principal products, including Lexapro and Namenda. While we continue to expand our manufacturing capabilities (see "Item 2. Properties"), difficulties or delays in product manufacture or the inability to locate and qualify third party alternative sources, if necessary, in a timely manner, could lead to shortages or long-term product unavailability, which would adversely affect our operations and results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 