Risk Factors - The carrying solutions business is highly competitive and does not pose significant barriers to entry.” Employees At September 30, 2011, we had 45 full-time employees, of whom two are employed in executive capacities, nine are employed in administrative and clerical capacities, thirteen are employed in sales and sales support, six are employed in design and product development capacities, and fifteen are employed in sourcing, quality control, and warehouse capacities. We consider our employee relations to be satisfactory. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Of these employees, fifteen have been hired in connection with our potential retail channel business. Since June 2003, we have employed our U.S. employees through a co-employment agreement with ADP Total Source, a Professional Employer Organization. The objective of this arrangement is for ADP Total Source to assume many of the legal and administrative responsibilities of human resources management, health benefits, workers' compensation, payroll, payroll tax compliance, 401(K) plan administration and unemployment insurance and to perform these functions at lesser expense than if we were to perform them directly. Regulation and Environmental Protection Our business is subject to various regulations in various jurisdictions, including the United States and member states of the European Community, that restrict the use or importation of products manufactured with compounds deemed to be hazardous. We work with our suppliers to ensure compliance with such regulations. In addition, from time to time one or more customers may require testing of our products to ensure compliance with applicable consumer safety rules and regulations or the customer’s safety or packaging protocols. Because we do not manufacture the products that we sell and distribute, compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, has not had, and is not anticipated to have, any direct material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. However, compliance with such laws and regulations on the part of our suppliers may result in increased costs of supply to us, particularly if domestic environmental regulation in China becomes more prevalent. We have not been engaged in any environmental litigation or incurred any material costs related to compliance with environmental or other regulations. From time to time we incur chemical and/or safety laboratory testing expense in order to address customer requests regarding our product materials or method of manufacture or regarding their packaging methods and standards. 9 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Please read the note regarding "Cautionary statement for purposes of the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" that appears on pages 17 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We previously announced our intention to diversify our business by means of merger, acquisition or other business combination. Our business strategy is to grow our OEM business, expand product offerings and technology solutions, and develop or acquire retail distribution capability. Consistent with this approach, in December 2010, we announced entry into a letter of intent to acquire Flash Ventures Inc., a distributor of consumer electronics peripherals and accessories (“Flash”). In April 2011 we elected to terminate such letter of intent and not make such acquisition. Without completing such a merger or acquisition to acquire a retail channel and product development capability, the time required to implement our growth strategy is likely to increase. This growth strategy represents a significant shift in the Company’s strategy, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to achieve our goals. Management continues to evaluate potential merger and acquisition targets, and given the right strategic opportunity pursuant to satisfactory terms and conditions, it will pursue a potential merger or acquisition if it is in the best interests of shareholders. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to make any acquisition, or that any business that we do acquire or invest in will be profitable or accretive. There can be no assurance as to the timing of a transaction, or that the market price of our common stock will not decline in response to any such transaction as may be effected or not effected. Our business strategy is to develop and grow our existing business and to expand into retail; to the extent that operating expenses continue to trend significantly higher before we realize higher revenues, our operating results may continue to be adversely and materially affected. We are pursuing a more marketing-driven and product development-driven business model to grow our existing business and expand product offerings. In executing this strategy, we have incurred, and are likely to continue to incur, increased selling, general, and administrative expense as we devote increased resources to expanding product sales and development and to establish a retail distribution channel, including resources to recruit and compensate experienced sales and marketing professionals. Such increased expenses are likely to continue to impact our income statement and reduce cash and equivalents before such efforts result in increased revenues and profit, if at all, which may continue to materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We have hired 15 employees in connection with the potential retail channel business and have invested significant resources in bringing new products to market, particularly in terms of funding product development. As of September 30, 2011, no new products were available for market and there had been no sales in connection with the potential retail business. Realization of higher revenues and resulting improvement in our results of operations will depend on management’s ability to execute successfully on its strategy and business plan, as to which there can be no assurance. The cash investment required to execute our growth strategy is likely to be substantial relative to our cash resources. We have recently invested and expect to continue to invest substantial incremental cash resources to execute our growth strategy to fund (i) operating losses reflecting the investment in our sales and distribution capabilities; (ii) investments in product development and other joint venture arrangements; and (iii) investments in working capital required to support new products and channels. While we believe that our existing cash resources are sufficient to support our growth strategy, there can be no assurances that our growth strategy will be successful or that we will earn a return on these investments. 10 In pursuing strategic partnerships, we may decide to advance funds to third parties for product development. We are aggressively pursuing business relationships with unrelated third parties (via potential joint sales, joint venture, licensing, or other arrangements) by which we are seeking to expand our sales base, access new customer markets, and/or develop new products to distribute and sell. In certain cases, from time to time, we may deem it in the Company’s best interests to participate in the funding of new product development by extending short-term loans for working capital, product development, or related uses. In general, a significant ancillary purpose of such loans might include enhancing the likelihood of our securing the business relationship with such third party that we deem advantageous to our business development efforts, as well as acceleration of the development timetable for the product. Such lending may not be on a secured basis. Our business experience does not encompass bank lending expertise in the assessment of the creditworthiness of borrowers, and such lending on our part does not represent a core element of our business expertise. There is a risk that the funds we loaned or advanced to third parties will not be repaid. On January 5, 2011, the Company entered into a loan agreement with Flash Ventures, Inc., an unrelated entity, to provide a credit facility of up to $1,000,000, due December 1, 2011. Pursuant to the agreement Flash executed an unsecured, unsubordinated term note in favor of the Company, bearing interest at 11% per annum on any unpaid principal, payable quarterly commencing March 31, 2011. On January 6, 2011 and January 19, 2011, Flash drew $600,000 and $400,000, respectively, in funds under the note, leaving no further funding available. Flash was late in making the interest payment due March 31, 2011, eventually making payment in full, and made timely payment thereafter. Effective December 1, 2011, the terms of the loan were amended to, among other things, extend the maturity date to April 1, 2012 and to provide for the loan to be secured. In connection with such amendment Flash made a principal payment of $250,000 on December 1, 2011. As of September 30, 2011, we had advanced $500,000, in funds to a prospective joint venture participant in consideration as a prepaid royalty. As with any debt obligation, there is a risk that the borrower will default and we as lender may not receive repayment in full of the funds loaned and interest thereon. This risk is increased by virtue of the fact that many of these loans were made on an unsecured basis. If this were to occur, it could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and reduce the amount of funds available to support our growth initiatives and other capital requirements. Our business remains highly concentrated in our OEM - Diabetic Products line, posing risks to our financial condition and results of operations compared to periods when revenue from customers from two principal product lines were more balanced. If our OEM - Diabetic Products line were to suffer the loss of a principal customer or a material decline in or loss of sales, our business would be materially and adversely affected. Sales of diabetic cases to OEM customers accounted for approximately 73% of net revenues in Fiscal 2011. While OEM sales of “other products” reflect new customer adds and improved revenues in recent years, our business remains characterized by high product line as well as customer concentration. In such circumstances, our financial condition and results of operations are subject to higher risk from the loss of a OEM diabetic case customer or from changes in the business practices of OEMs of blood glucose monitors, for example, a decision to reduce or eliminate inclusion of cases in box with the electronic device or a decision to focus on insulin pumps instead of insulin by injection. Our business is and has been characterized by a high degree of customer concentration. Our three largest customers accounted for approximately 70% and 73% of net sales in Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively; the loss of, or material reduction in orders from, any of these customers would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At present the predominant percentage of our sales revenues is concentrated in three large OEM customers for our diabetic blood glucose carry cases, including their affiliates and/or their contract manufacturers. The loss of any of these customers, whether as a result of its purchase of its carry solution requirements from another vendor, its decision to manufacture its own carrying cases, its decision to award its orders to one of our competitors, or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 11 If any one or more of our OEM customers elect to reduce or discontinue inclusion of cases “in-box”, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. The predominant percentage of our revenues is derived from sales of case accessories to our OEM customers who package our cases “in-box” with their electronics. With the global recession and weak recovery, OEMs have sought continuously to reduce expenses. If one or more of our OEM customers generally begin to reduce or discontinue the practice of including carry case accessories in-box, we would incur a significant decline in revenues and our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. At any time, a significant percentage of our accounts receivable risk may be concentrated in a small number of customers. Three customers accounted for approximately 71% of our accounts receivable at September 30, 2011, and three customers accounted for approximately 75% of our accounts receivable at September 30, 2010. The failure to receive or collect such amounts when and as due could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. We continue to encounter pressures from our largest OEM customers to maintain or even roll back prices or to supply lower priced carry solutions, and expect such pressure to persist. The effects of such price constraints on our business may be exacerbated by inflationary pressures that affect our costs of supply. During Fiscal 2011 and 2010, we experienced significant pricing pressure from our largest OEM customers to maintain or even reduce the prices we charge them. When we are unable to extract comparable concessions from our suppliers on prices they charge us, product sales margins erode. In addition to margin compression from customers, from time to time we may encounter increased prices from our Chinese suppliers who are reacting to inflationary increases in materials and labor costs incurred by them. We believe that Fiscal 2011 and the present represent a period of such inflationary pressures. In addition, prices that our Chinese vendors charge to us may reflect appreciation of the Chinese currency against the US dollar, which can be passed through to us in the form of higher US dollar prices. This in turn will tend to reduce gross profit percentage if we are unable to raise prices. We anticipate that constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices to our major customers will continue to exert downward pressure on our gross profit percentage in the fiscal year ending September 30, 2012. This is particularly the situation with respect to our large diabetic customers for existing as well as new programs. Our results of operations are subject to the risks of fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar. Our results of operations are expressed in U.S. Dollars. When the U.S. Dollar appreciates or depreciates in value against a currency in which all or a significant portion of revenues or other accounts receivable are denominated, such as the Euro, our results of operations can be adversely affected or benefited, respectively. For Fiscal 2011, there was not a significant depreciation of the Euro to affect our results of operations. The degree of impact is proportional to the amount of foreign currency expense or revenue, as the case may be, and the fluctuations in exchange rates over the period in which the effect is measured on our financial statements. Future revenues are difficult to predict and are likely to show significant variability as a consequence of customer concentration. Because our revenues are highly concentrated in a few large customers, and because the volumes of these customers' order flows to us can fluctuate markedly in a short period of time, our quarterly revenues, and consequently our results of operations, may be highly variable and subject to significant changes over a relatively short period of time. Our largest OEM customers may keep consumer products with which our carry solutions are packaged "in-box" in active promotion for many months, or for a very short period of time, depending on various factors, including sales trends for the product, product development cycles, new product introductions, and our customers' competitors' product offerings. As demand for the consumer product relating to the in-box program matures and decreases, we may be forced to accept significant price and/or volume reductions in customer orders for our carry solutions, which will adversely affect revenue. 12 These factors tend to lead to a high degree of variability in our quarterly revenue levels. Significant, rapid shifts in our operating results may occur if and when one or more of these customers increase or decrease the size(s) of, or eliminate, their orders from us by amounts that are material to our business. Our gross margins, and therefore our profitability, vary considerably by sales channel, customer and by product type, and if the revenue contribution from one or more OEM customers changes materially, relative to total revenues, our gross profit percentage may fluctuate or decline. Our gross profit margins on the products we sell can vary widely depending on the sales channel, product type, customer, order size, and market in which the customer's products are sold. Because of the broad variability in price ranges and product types, we anticipate that gross margins, and accordingly their impact on operating income or loss, may fluctuate depending on the relative revenue contribution from each customer or product. Product manufacture is often outsourced by our OEM customers to contract manufacturing firms in China and in these cases it is the contract manufacturer to which we must look for payment. Such firms are performing manufacturing, assembly, and product packaging functions, including the bundling of our product accessories with the OEM customer's product. As a consequence of this business practice, we often sell our carry solution products to the contract manufacturing firm. This is particularly significant in the case of diabetic product sales to certain customers. In these cases, we invoice the contract manufacturing firm and not the OEM customer. Therefore, it is the contract manufacturing firm's credit to which we must look for payment in such cases and not that of our OEM customer. This may alter the credit profile of our customer base and may involve significant purchase order volumes. In some, but not all cases, the manufacturing firm is itself a large, multinational entity with significant financial resources. Our dependence on foreign manufacturers creates quality control and other risks to our business. From time to time we may experience certain quality control, on-time delivery, cost, or other issues that may jeopardize customer relationships. Our reliance on foreign suppliers, manufacturers, and other contractors involves significant risks, including risk of product quality issues and reduced control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and costs, pricing, timely delivery schedules, the potential lack of adequate manufacturing capacity and availability of product, the lack of capital, and potential misappropriation of our designs. Our shipments of products via container may become subject to delays or cancellation due to work stoppages or slowdowns, piracy, damage to port facilities caused by weather or terrorism, and congestion due to inadequacy of port terminal equipment and other causes. To the extent that there are disruptions or delays in loading container cargo in ports of origin or off-loading cargo at ports of destination as a result of labor disputes, work-rules related slowdowns, tariff or World Trade Organization-related disputes, piracy, physical damage to port terminal facilities or equipment caused by severe weather or terrorist incidents, congestion in port terminal facilities, inadequate equipment to load, dock and offload container vessels or energy-related tie-ups or otherwise, or for other reasons, product shipments to our customers will be delayed. In any such case, our customer may cancel or change the terms of its purchase order, resulting in a cancellation or delay of payments to us. A closure or partial closure of port facilities or other causes of delays in the loading, importation, offloading or movement of our products to the shipping destination agreed with our customer could result in increased expenses, as we try to avoid such delays, delayed shipments or cancelled orders, or all of the above. Depending on the severity of such consequences, this may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The OEM carrying solutions business is highly competitive and does not pose significant barriers to entry. There are many competitors in the sale of carry solutions products to OEMs, and competition is intense. Since little or no significant proprietary technology is involved in the design, production, or distribution of the types of products we sell, others may enter the business with relative ease and compete against us. Such competition may result in the diminution of our market share or the loss of one or more major OEM customers, thereby adversely affecting our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition. Many of our competitors are larger, better capitalized, and more diversified than we are and may be better able to withstand a downturn in the general economy or in the product areas in which we specialize. These competitors may also have less sales concentration than we do and be better able to withstand the loss of a key customer or diminution in its orders. 13 Our business could suffer if the services of key sales personnel we rely on were lost to us. We are highly dependent on the efforts and services of certain key sales representatives who have account responsibility for, and have longstanding relationships with one or more of our largest customers. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we lost the services of any such individual. If we lost the services of a key sales representative, we might experience a material reduction in orders from his customers, resulting in a loss of revenues, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We do not pay dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since 1987. The payment in the future of cash dividends by us, if any, will depend upon our results of operations, short-term and long-term cash availability, working capital, working capital needs, and other factors, as determined by our Board of Directors. We do not anticipate that cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. The absence of dividend payments on a common stock might make such stock susceptible to greater market price swings. We have in place anti-takeover measures and charter provisions that may prevent a hostile or unwanted effort to acquire Forward. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 4,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue such preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the relative rights and preferences thereof including their redemption, dividend and conversion rights. Our ability to issue the authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock could be used to impede takeovers of our company. Under certain circumstances, the issuance of the preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of Forward, discourage bids for the common stock at a premium, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the shares outstanding to approve a business combination such as a merger or sale of all or substantially all assets. Such provision and blank check preferred stock may discourage attempts to acquire Forward. Applicable laws that impose restrictions on, or regulate the manner of, a takeover attempt may also have the effect of deterring any such transaction. We are not aware of any attempt to acquire Forward. We maintain cash balances in our bank accounts that exceed the FDIC insurance limitation. We maintain our cash assets at commercial banks in the U.S. in amounts in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit of $250,000 and in Europe in amounts that may exceed any applicable deposit insurance limits. In the event of a failure at a commercial bank where we maintain our deposits or uninsured losses on money market or other cash equivalents in which we maintain cash balances, we may incur a loss to the extent such loss exceeds the insurance limitation, which could have a material adverse effect upon our financial conditions and our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 