ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Please read the note regarding "Cautionary statement for purposes of the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" that appears on pages 16-17 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business remains highly concentrated in our Diabetic Products line, posing risks to our financial condition and results of operations compared to periods when revenue from customers from two principal product lines were more balanced. If our Diabetic Products line were to suffer the loss of a principal customer or a material decline in or loss of sales, our business would be materially and adversely affected. As a consequence of the steep decline in revenues from sales of cell phone accessories over the past several years, revenues from sales of diabetic cases to OEM customers now accounts for approximately 74% of net revenues. While sales of “other products” reflect new customer adds and improved revenues in Fiscal 2010, our business remains characterized by high product line as well as customer concentration. In such circumstances, our financial condition and results of operations are subject to higher risk from the loss of a diabetic case customer or from changes in the business practices of OEMs of blood glucose monitors, for example, a decision to reduce or eliminate inclusion of cases in box with the electronic device or a decision to focus on insulin pumps instead of insulin by injection. Our business is and has been characterized by a high degree of customer concentration. Our three largest customers accounted for approximately 73% and 66% of net sales in Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively; the loss of, or material reduction in orders from, any of these customers would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At present the predominant percentage of our sales revenues is concentrated in three large OEM customers for our diabetic blood glucose carry cases, including their affiliates and/or their contract manufacturers. The loss of any of these customers, whether as a result of its purchase of its carry solution requirements from another vendor, its decision to manufacture its own carrying cases, its decision to award its orders to one of our competitors, or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We have previously announced our intention to diversify our business by means of acquisition or other business combination. The difficult business conditions of the last several years led our large OEM customers to embark on cost cutting and expense reduction strategies that have reduced our revenue and adversely affected our gross margin and net profit. This led prior management to announce an acquisition strategy to diversify away from and/or balance the OEM-centered business. In August 2010, when our new management team was installed, it outlined a business strategy to grow the OEM business and expand into new product channels and technology solutions. In general, our management believes that an acquisition within the technology accessories business might, in the right circumstances, be complementary with the strategy it has identified. If an acquisition is undertaken, there can be no assurance as to the cost in cash or securities of such an acquisition or other combination, the potential dilution to existing shareholders if our securities are issued as part of transaction consideration, or the business risks that accompany any such transaction. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to make an acquisition or that any business that we do acquire or invest in will be profitable. There can be no assurance as to the timing of a transaction, or that the market price of our common stock will not decline in response to any such transaction as may be effected. If any one or more of our OEM customers elect to reduce or discontinue inclusion of cases “in-box”, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. The predominant percentage of our revenues is derived from sales of case accessories to our OEM customers who package our cases “in-box” with their electronics. With the global recession and weak recovery, OEMs have sought continuously to reduce expenses. If one or more of our OEM customers generally begin to reduce or discontinue the practice of including carry case accessories in-box, we would incur a significant decline in revenues and our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 10 Forward Industries, Inc. Our business strategy is to develop and grow our existing business; to the extent that operating expenses trend significantly higher before we realize higher revenues, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected. Our new management team intends to pursue a more marketing- and product development-driven business model to grow our existing business and expand product offerings, compared to the prior management team that was focused on maintaining the liquidity of the balance sheet as it assessed potential acquisitions. In executing this strategy, we are likely to incur increased selling, general, and administrative expense as we devote increased resources to product sales and development. Such increased expenses are likely to impact our income statement and reduce cash and equivalents before such efforts result in higher revenues, if at all, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Realization of this strategy and improvement in our results of operations will depend on management’s ability to execute successfully on its strategy and business plan. At any time, a significant percentage of our accounts receivable risk may be concentrated in a small number of customers. Three customers accounted for approximately 75% of our accounts receivable at September 30, 2010, and two customers accounted for approximately 63% of our accounts receivable at September 30, 2009. The failure to receive or collect such amounts when and as due could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. In a price constrained global economy we continue to encounter pressures from our largest OEM customers to maintain or even roll back prices or to supply lower priced carry solutions. The effects of such price constraints on our business may be exacerbated by inflationary pressures that affect our costs of supply. During Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, we experienced significant pricing pressure from our largest OEM customers to maintain or even reduce the prices we charge them. When we are unable to extract comparable concessions from our suppliers on prices they charge us, product sales margins erode. In addition to margin compression from customers, from time to time we may encounter increased prices from our Chinese suppliers who are reacting to inflationary increases in materials and labor costs incurred by them. We believe that Fiscal 2010 and the current fiscal year represent a period of such inflationary pressures. In addition, prices that our Chinese vendors charge to us may reflect appreciation of the Chinese currency against the US dollar, which can be passed through to us in the form of higher US dollar prices. This in turn will tend to reduce gross profit percentage if we are unable to raise prices. We anticipate that constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices to our major customers will continue to exert downward pressure on our gross profit percentage in the fiscal year ending September 30, 2011. This is particularly the situation with respect to our large diabetic customers for existing as well as new programs. Our results of operations are subject to the risks of fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar; for example, if the factors tending to support appreciation of the Chinese renminbi, in which a significant portion of our suppliers’ costs are denominated, and depreciation of the US Dollar, in which most of our revenues are denominated, continue, our gross margins will be subject to pressure. 11 Forward Industries, Inc. Our results of operations are expressed in U.S. Dollars. When the U.S. Dollar appreciates or depreciates in value against a currency in which all or a significant portion of our costs of goods sold are denominated, such as the Chinese renminbi, our results will be benefited or adversely affected, respectively, assuming no change in prices we charge to our customers. If, for example, China were to permit the renminbi to float to a free market rate of exchange, it is widely anticipated that the U.S. Dollar would depreciate in value relative to the renminbi, which would have the effect of increasing the prices we pay to our suppliers (our costs of goods sold) in U.S. dollar terms and adversely affecting our gross margins if we could not pass those increases along to our customers or enter into financial arrangements that hedged or otherwise mitigated this foreign exchange risk. During Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 currency markets pushed the renminbi up and the U.S. Dollar down, having the effect described above. The opposite relationship would apply to U.S. Dollar fluctuations with respect to a currency in which sales revenues or other accounts receivable are denominated, such as the Euro. When the U.S. Dollar appreciates or depreciates in value against the Euro, our results of operations can be adversely affected or benefited, respectively. The significant appreciation of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar, as occurred during most of calendar 2009, had the effect of increasing, in U.S. dollar terms, our sales revenues that were denominated in Euros. The reversal of this trend in 2010 adversely affected our results of operations. The degree of impact is proportional to the amount of foreign currency expense or revenue, as the case may be, and the fluctuations in exchange rates over the period in which the effect is measured on our financial statements. Payments to us by or on behalf of our customers of accounts receivable originated in China may become subject to local regulations or moratorium that restrict the right to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or U.S. dollars into foreign currencies, or that prevent, delay, or restrict the ability to remit U.S. dollars to the United States. In the event that any foreign government were to impose regulatory restrictions on the ability to effect conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars, repatriation of U.S. dollars or other currencies to the United States, or payment in any form to foreign business entities, or were to impose or enforce tighter restrictions on foreign exchange license holders, our receipt or recognition of U.S. dollars in payment, directly or indirectly, of invoices for sales of our products could be delayed or otherwise affected. If this were to affect receipt or recognition of material amounts of revenues, our liquidity or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Future revenues are difficult to predict and are likely to show significant variability as a consequence of customer concentration. Because our sales revenues are highly concentrated in a few large customers, and because the volumes of these customers' order flows to us can fluctuate markedly in a short period of time, our quarterly revenues, and consequently our results of operations, may be highly variable and subject to significant changes over a relatively short period of time. Our largest OEM customers may keep consumer products with which our carry solutions are packaged "in-box" in active promotion for many months, or for a very short period of time, depending on various factors, including sales trends for the product, product development cycles, new product introductions, and our customers' competitors' product offerings. As demand for the consumer product relating to the in-box program matures and decreases, we may be forced to accept significant price and/or volume reductions in customer orders for our carry solutions, which will adversely affect revenue. These factors tend to lead to a high degree of variability in our quarterly revenue levels. Significant, rapid shifts in our operating results may occur if and when one or more of these customers increase or decrease the size(s) of, or eliminate, their orders from us by amounts that are material to our business. Our gross margins, and therefore our profitability, vary considerably by customer and by product type, and if the revenue contribution from one or more OEM customers changes materially, relative to total revenues, our gross profit percentage may fluctuate or decline. Our gross profit margins on the products we sell can vary widely depending on the product type, customer, order size, and market in which the customer's products are sold. For example, selling prices and profit margins both within our soft-sided carrying cases product line and between such line and other carry solutions such as straps, clips, cleaning cloths, and cases for larger “other” products can vary widely. Because of the broad variability in price ranges and product types, we anticipate that gross margins, and accordingly their impact on operating income or loss, may fluctuate depending on the relative revenue contribution by customer of carrying cases for blood glucose monitors compared to carry solutions for “other products”, as well as our OEM customers' order patterns and preferences for more or less expensive cases and or other accessories to be included as accessories "in box". Such fluctuations may have the effect of masking the impact of fluctuations in unit volume sale trends. Product manufacture is often outsourced by our OEM customers to contract manufacturing firms in China and in these cases it is the contract manufacturer to which we must look for payment. 12 Forward Industries, Inc. Such firms are performing manufacturing, assembly, and product packaging functions, including the bundling of our product accessories with the OEM customer's product. As a consequence of this business practice, we often sell our carry solution products to the contract manufacturing firm. This is particularly significant in the case of diabetic product sales to certain customers. In these cases, we invoice the contract manufacturing firm and not the OEM customer. Therefore, it is the contract manufacturing firm's credit to which we must look for payment in such cases and not that of our OEM customer. This may alter the credit profile of our customer base and may involve significant purchase order volumes. In some, but not all cases, the manufacturing firm is itself a large, multinational entity with significant financial resources. Our dependence on foreign manufacturers creates quality control and other risks to our business. From time to time we may experience certain quality control, on-time delivery, cost, or other issues that may jeopardize customer relationships. Substantially, all of our products are manufactured by Chinese manufacturers in China. Our reliance on foreign suppliers, manufacturers, and other contractors involves significant risks, including risk of product quality issues and reduced control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and costs, pricing, timely delivery schedules, the potential lack of adequate manufacturing capacity and availability of product, the lack of capital, and potential misappropriation of our designs. Our shipments of products via container freight to customers in the United States and Europe may become subject to delays or cancellation due to work stoppages or slowdowns, piracy, damage to port facilities caused by weather or terrorism, and congestion due to inadequacy of port terminal equipment and other causes. Substantially all of our products are sourced from China. To the extent that there are disruptions or delays in loading container cargo in Chinese ports or off-loading cargo at ports of destination as a result of labor disputes, work-rules related slowdowns, tariff or World Trade Organization-related disputes, piracy, physical damage to port terminal facilities or equipment caused by severe weather or terrorist incidents, congestion in port terminal facilities, inadequate equipment to load, dock and offload container vessels or energy-related tie-ups or otherwise, or for other reasons, product shipments to our customers will be delayed. In any such case, our customer may cancel or change the terms of its purchase order, resulting in a cancellation or delay of payments to us. A closure or partial closure of Hong Kong, Chinese, United States or European port facilities or other causes of delays in the loading, importation, offloading or movement of our products to the shipping destination agreed with our customer could result in increased expenses, as we try to avoid such delays, delayed shipments or cancelled orders, or all of the above. Depending on the severity of such consequences, this may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The carrying solutions business is highly competitive and does not pose significant barriers to entry. There are many competitors in the sale of carry solutions products to OEMs, and competition is intense. Since little or no significant proprietary technology is involved in the design, production, or distribution of the types of products we sell, others may enter the business with relative ease and compete against us. Such competition may result in the diminution of our market share or the loss of one or more major OEM customers, thereby adversely affecting our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition. Many of our competitors are larger, better capitalized, and more diversified than we are and may be better able to withstand a downturn in the general economy or in the product areas in which we specialize. These competitors may also have less sales concentration than we do and be better able to withstand the loss of a key customer or diminution in its orders. Our business could suffer if the services of key sales personnel we rely on were lost to us. We are highly dependent on the efforts and services of certain key sales representatives who have account responsibility for, and have longstanding relationships with one or more of our largest customers. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we lost the services of any such individual. If we lost the services of a key sales representative, we might experience a material reduction in orders from his customers, resulting in a loss of revenues, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Forward Industries, Inc. We do not pay dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since 1987. The payment in the future of cash dividends by us, if any, will depend upon our results of operations, short-term and long-term cash availability, working capital, working capital needs, and other factors, as determined by our Board of Directors. Applicable laws may also restrict the ability of a corporation to pay dividends, for example when such payment would render the corporation insolvent. We do not anticipate that cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. The absence of dividend payments on a common stock might make such stock susceptible to greater market price swings. We have in place anti-takeover measures and charter provisions that may prevent a hostile or unwanted effort to acquire Forward. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 4,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue such preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the relative rights and preferences thereof including their redemption, dividend and conversion rights. Our ability to issue the authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock could be used to impede takeovers of our company. Under certain circumstance, the issuance of the preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of Forward, discourage bids for the common stock at a premium, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the shares outstanding to approve a business combination such as a merger or sale of all or substantially all assets. Such provision and blank check preferred stock may discourage attempts to acquire Forward. Applicable laws that impose restrictions on, or regulate the manner of, a takeover attempt may also have the effect of deterring any such transaction. We are not aware of any attempt to acquire Forward. We maintain cash balances in our bank accounts that exceed the FDIC insurance limitation. We maintain our cash assets at commercial banks in the U.S. in amounts in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit of $250,000 and in Europe in amounts that may exceed any applicable deposit insurance limits. In the event of a failure at a commercial bank where we maintain our deposits or uninsured losses on money market or other cash equivalents in which we maintain cash balances, we may incur a loss to the extent such loss exceeds the insurance limitation, which could have a material adverse effect upon our financial conditions and our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 