Item 1A, Risk Factors: “We may not realize the benefits that we anticipated under the new license agreement .” In Fiscal 2007 and prior years, aftermarket product sales predominantly consisted of sales to third parties of licensed products under the Motorola agreement. These sales accounted for approximately 1% and 9% of our net sales in Fiscal 2008 (in the first quarter thereof under the expired license) and Fiscal 2007, respectively. We look to diversify aftermarket channels in the near future by development of our own line of products for sale to distributors and retailers or other initiatives. Sales Force During Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 approximately 100% of net sales were made directly by our employees, which are assigned key accounts and to defined geographic sales territories. . See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A. of this Annual Report - “Our business could suffer if the services of any of the key personnel we rely on were lost to us.” Motorola License Following the expiration of the prior license agreement on December 31, 2007, in May 2008, we entered into a new, non-exclusive license agreement with Motorola, Inc. (“Motorola”) that grants us the right to distribute certain Motorola trademarked carry solution accessory products to wholesale and retail customers in the United States, Canada, and Europe through March 31, 2009, subject to renewal by mutual agreement. The license agreement is effective retroactive to January 1, 2008. The grant under the expired license was limited to the EMEA Region and pertained to traditional Motorola branded handsets; the grant under the new license expands the licensed territory and covers a broader range of cell phone handsets, including Motorola’s “IDEN®” brand . In consideration of the grant, we agreed to pay to Motorola a royalty based upon a percentage of actual net sales of branded accessory products, subject to payment of minimum royalties (irrespective of actual net sales) in the amount of $650,000 over the 15-month term. In December 2008 Motorola and we reached an agreement under which Motorola waives payment of all minimum royalties due under the license and reduces the royalty rate in respect of the term which expires March 31, 2009. Both parties expect to memorialize this agreement by amending the license agreement in the very near term. To date, no material sales of licensed products have been recognized, and there can be no assurance that any will be. See Note 14 to the audited, consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 in Part II of this Annual Report. In addition to other customary terms and conditions typical of agreements of this kind, we may be required to indemnify Motorola in respect of damage to its intellectual property, to cause our designated manufacturers to comply with certain terms of the manufacturing agreement to which they are a party pursuant to the license, or to incur costs and expenses in other respects. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors - Under our license agreement with Motorola we may become liable for certain indemnification or other liabilities and become exposed to certain risks” of this Annual Report for a discussion of indemnification obligations, manufacturing compliance and certain other risks under the license agreement. 9 Forward Industries, Inc. OEM Distribution Hubs During Fiscal 2008 and 2007 we operated under distribution hub agreements with three of our OEM customers. These agreements obligate us to supply carrying case accessory products to the customer’s distribution hubs (often at multiple locations) where its products are manufactured, and/or warehoused pending sale and where our products are packaged with the OEM customer’s electronics products. The product volumes we are required to supply to each distribution hub is based on our OEM customer’s forecasts. Because product supply lead times with our suppliers may exceed those agreed upon with our OEM customers, we sometimes have to purchase product and stock inventory that ultimately exceeds our OEM customers’ forecasted demand for which they are obligated to us. In particular, this may occur if the customer’s forecast is revised downward during the period we are purchasing and stocking product for the hub. As a result, our inventory levels, liquidity, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We ship product to the hub but do not recognize revenue until we have been advised by our customer that product has been withdrawn from the distribution hub to be placed “in box”. By historical standards in our business, these arrangements have had the general effect of financing our customers’ inventory by extending the time between placement of our orders to our suppliers in order to supply the hubs and the time that revenue is recognized. The corollary effect is an increase in our inventory levels. Credit Risk We generally sell our products on 30- to 60-day credit terms customary in the industry. We have extended customary credit terms for certain major OEM customers, upon their request, up to 90-days. Historically, we have not had significant credit problems with our customers. Our significant OEM customers are large, multi-national companies with good credit histories. None of these customers is or has been in default to us, and payments are generally received from them on a timely basis. Two customers, including their international affiliates or their contract manufacturers, accounted for approximately 74% and 75% of the Company's accounts receivable at September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As part of what has become established industry practice, certain of our OEM customers request that we ship product to their designated contract manufacturer and invoice such manufacturers (and not the OEM customer) for the products to be included “in box” with the cellular handsets or blood glucose monitors that are manufactured, assembled and packaged by such contract manufacturers. In these cases, even though our order flows originate with and depend on our relationship with the OEM, our accounts receivable credit risk lies with the contract manufacturer. Our OEM customer does not guarantee the credit of the contract manufacturer to whom the OEM requests us to ship our carrying case products, and such orders may be significant in volume from time to time. In most cases, these contract manufacturers are themselves major multinational enterprises with good credit histories. Any failure of any such customer or its contract manufacturer to pay part or all the sums owed to us when due could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, business prospects, and results of operations. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors — Product manufacture is increasingly being outsourced by our OEM customers to contract manufacturing firms in China and in Southeast Asia” of this Annual Report. Foreign Exchange Risk Certain of our OEM customers have established sales and manufacturing operations in China. In addition, as noted above, certain of these or other OEM customers may outsource manufacturing and packaging of the products with which our carrying case solutions are packaged “in box” to contract manufacturers that are located in China or in Southeast Asia. Accordingly, our payment and remittance arrangements with such customers may subject these arrangements to Chinese or other local currency regulations. In the event that any foreign government were to impose regulatory restrictions on the ability to effect conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars, repatriation of U.S. dollars or other currencies to the United States, or payment in any form to foreign business entities, or were to impose or enforce tighter restrictions on foreign exchange license holders, our receipt or recognition of U.S. dollars in payment, directly or indirectly, of invoices for sales of our products could be delayed or otherwise affected. If this were to affect receipt or recognition of material amounts of revenues, our liquidity or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors—Payments to us by or on behalf of our customers of accounts receivable originated in China or other Asian nations may be subject to local regulations or moratorium that restrict the right to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or U.S. dollars into foreign currencies,, or that prevent, delay, or restrict the ability to remit U.S. dollars to the United States” of this Annual Report. 10 Forward Industries, Inc. Product Supply Manufacturing The manufacture of custom carrying cases and other carry solution products generally consists of die cutting fabrics, principally vinyl, nylon, and leather; and heat sealing, gluing, sewing and decorating (affixing logos) by means of silk screening, hot-stamping, embroidering or embossing. The principal materials used in the manufacture of our products are vinyl, nylon, leather, metal and plastic parts (such as clips, buckles, loops, and hinges and other hardware), foam padding and cardboard, all of which are obtained according to our specifications from Chinese suppliers. We do not believe that any of the component materials or parts used by our suppliers in the manufacture of our products is supply constrained. We believe that there are adequate available alternative sources of supply for all of the materials used to manufacture, package, and ship our products. Suppliers We procure all our supply of carrying solutions products from independent suppliers, each of which is a Chinese business entity located in China. Depending on the product, we may require several different suppliers to furnish component parts or pieces. We purchased approximately 95% and 69% of our products from seven such suppliers in Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, respectively. One supplier accounted for approximately 43% and 20% of our product purchases in Fiscal 2008 and 2007. See Note 1 (under the caption “Supplier Rebates”) to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report. We place orders with one or more suppliers at the time we receive firm orders from our OEM customers for a particular product. Accordingly, we do not have minimum supply requirement agreements with these or other suppliers to guarantee us supply of finished product, nor have we made purchase commitments to purchase minimum amounts from any of these suppliers. However, from time to time, we may order products from our suppliers in anticipation of receiving a customer order to meet required delivery times. If our customer cancels the order or we fail to receive the customer order, we may still be required to pay for the supply order, which could result in a loss to us as these are generally custom manufactured products unfit for sale to other customers. With respect to aftermarket products, we estimate the product sell through rates of our distributor and retail customers in order to gauge the timing and size of inventory stocking orders to our suppliers. We believe that other suppliers could provide us similar products on comparable terms. However, a switch to a different supplier could delay shipment of product resulting in a loss of sales that could affect our operating results and adversely influence our relationship with the affected customer. In addition, under our license agreement with Motorola our selection of a new supplier to manufacture licensed products is subject to Motorola’s approval. Product Sampling and Quality Control Upon award of an OEM order, our design and production staff works closely with our customer to finalize product designs and specifications and with our suppliers to coordinate production schedules, conformity to design specifications, and quality control. Depending on the customer’s requirements, the product involved, and time from sampling to commercial order, our production staff, working in conjunction with our marketing department, may submit samples and refinements thereof to the customer several times per product before approval for production is granted. Once the sampling process is completed for a specific product, which may range from weeks to many months, commercial orders may be received and accepted. To ensure that product manufacturing by our foreign suppliers meets our quality assurance standards, products we sell and distribute are either inspected by our employees in our Hong Kong shipping and quality assurance center or by contracted third-parties in China that are overseen by Koszegi Asia employees. 11 Forward Industries, Inc. Quality assurance and sourcing related expenses are reflected in cost of goods sold in our results of operations. In March 2007, our Hong Kong inspection facility renewed its ISO 9001:2000 quality certification. Once our products are approved for shipment by Koszegi Asia’s inspection and quality control procedures, the products are typically shipped on container carrier vessels. In certain cases, at the customer’s request, we will ship by air freight or transfer products to a customer’s location in China or Hong Kong. Most ocean-going shipments bound for the Untied States are off-loaded at the port of Los Angeles or San Francisco, but certain customers arrange for shipments to East coast ports, such as Miami or Philadelphia. European shipments generally are routed via Rotterdam, Frankfurt, or London. Disruptions or delays in off-loading cargo at any of these domestic or foreign ports as a result of labor disputes, physical damage to port facilities or otherwise, or other delays may delay shipments to our customers and cause re-routing of containers to ports with open facilities or shipment via air freight. Depending on the cause of delay and trade terms with our customer, we may be required in certain cases to bear the additional expense of such alternate routing or reliance on air freight. See “Item 1A.”Risk Factors—Our shipments of products via container freight to customers in the United States and Europe are subject to delays or cancellation at port facilities due to work stoppages or slowdowns, damage caused by weather or terrorism and congestion due to inadequacy of equipment and other causes” of this Annual Report. We ship our products to our customers by common carrier. Insurance We maintain commercial loss and liability, business interruption, and general claims and other insurance customary for our business. We do not maintain credit insurance for our trade accounts receivable. Competition The business in which we engage is highly competitive in terms of product pricing, design, delivery terms, and customer service. In the production of carrying cases and related carry solutions for OEM products, we compete with numerous United States and foreign producers and distributors. Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have greater financial and other resources. We believe that we sustain our competitive position through maintenance of an effective product design capability, rapid response time to customer requests for proposals and product shipment, competitive pricing, reliable product delivery, and product quality. We believe that our ability to compete based on product quality assurance considerations is enhanced by the local presence of our Hong Kong and outsourced Chinese quality control and shipment facilities. See Item 1A. in this Annual Report: “Risk Factors - The carrying solutions business is highly competitive and does not pose significant barriers to entry.” Employees At September 30, 2008, we had 53 full-time employees, of whom two are employed in executive capacities, 5 are employed in administrative and clerical capacities, 19 are employed in sales and sales support and design capacities, and 27 are employed in sourcing, quality control, and warehouse capacities. We consider our employee relations to be satisfactory. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Since June 2003, we have employed our U.S. employees through a co-employment agreement with ADP Total Source, a Professional Employer Organization. The objective of this arrangement is for ADP Total Source to assume many of the legal and administrative responsibilities of human resources management, health benefits, workers' compensation, payroll, payroll tax compliance, 401(K) plan administration and unemployment insurance. Regulation and Environmental Protection Our business is subject to various regulations in various jurisdictions, including the United States and member states of the European Community, that restrict the use or importation of products manufactured with compounds deemed to be hazardous. We work with our suppliers to ensure compliance with such regulations. In addition, from time to time one or more customers may require testing of our products to ensure compliance with applicable consumer safety rules and regulations or the customer’s safety or packaging protocols. Because we do not engage in the manufacture of products that we sell and distribute, compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, has not had, and is not anticipated to have, any direct material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. However, compliance with such laws and regulations on the part of our suppliers may result in increased costs of supply to us, particularly if domestic environmental regulation in China becomes more prevalent. In addition, under our license agreement with Motorola, we may be responsible for ensuring our Chinese suppliers’ compliance with applicable regulations, including, among others, those relating to worker safety, child labor laws, and environmental protection. This may require us to incur administrative and/or legal expense in working with our suppliers to achieve such compliance. We have not been engaged in any environmental litigation or incurred any material costs related to compliance with environmental or other regulations. From time to time we incur chemical and/or safety laboratory testing expense in order to address customer requests regarding our product materials or method of manufacture or regarding their packaging methods and standards. 12 Forward Industries, Inc. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Please read the note regarding "Cautionary statement for purposes of the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" that appears on pages 21-22 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In our efforts to address and reverse the steep falloff in OEM and licensed cell phone case sales, we have adopted a strategy involving the dedication of significant resources to re-build and develop our sales and marketing capability in our cell phone product line and product sales generally. If this strategy does not succeed in generating a significant increase in sales revenues in the near to mid-term, our operating results may deteriorate from current levels.. In order to maximize our potential return of investment under the license and to expand our selling capability to the aftermarket generally, we have hired product development, marketing, selling, and administrative personnel to exploit the license opportunity and to develop our sales capability generally outside the license. With these resources our objective is to rebuild and strengthen our marketing and product development capabilities and to establish new sales channels in North America and the parts of Europe we did not access under the old license. Accordingly, we anticipate that selling, general, and administrative expenses will increase significantly as our efforts in this regard continue. However, there can be no assurance that this strategy will result in a sufficient increase in revenues to achieve a return on our investments in personnel and royalty commitments. If we do not begin to recognize significant revenues from these efforts during the next two quarters to offset the increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses, our operating results may further weaken from present levels. With the steep decline in cell phone revenue in Fiscal 2008, our business has become more highly concentrated in our blood glucose kit carry product line, thus increasing the risks to our financial condition and results of operations compared to periods when revenue from customers from our two principal product lines were more balanced. If our blood glucose kit carry product line were to suffer a decline in or loss of sales, our business would be materially and adversely affected. In recent years, revenue from OEM customers in each of the two product lines fluctuated without one being consistently predominant. As a consequence of the steep decline in revenues from sales of accessories for cellular handsets over the past two fiscal years, revenues from sales of carry solutions for diabetic monitoring cases from OEM customers accounted for approximately 76% of net revenues in Fiscal 2008. Our business is now characterized by increased product line as well as customer concentration. In such circumstances, our financial condition and results of operations are subject to higher risk from changes in the business practices of OEMs of blood glucose monitors, for example, a decision to reduce or eliminate inclusion of cases in box with the electronic device. Our business could suffer if the services of any of the key personnel we rely on were lost to us. We are highly dependent on the efforts and services of certain key sales representatives. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we lost the services of such individuals. If we lost the services of these key sales representatives, we might experience a reduction in or significant loss of orders from their respective customers, resulting in a loss of revenues, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Forward Industries, Inc. We believe that Motorola’s announcement in March 2008 that it intends to spin off its Mobile Devices business and the market developments leading up to that announcement may have contributed to the steep decline in cell phone product sales and increases the risk to our ongoing relationship with Motorola. In March 2008 Motorola announced its intention to spin off its Mobile Devices business, which has been our OEM customer for over 10 years. During much of that 10-year period, Motorola was our largest customer by revenue, and the successes of its cell phone handset business anchored our revenue and earnings base. (More recently, Motorola has announced in its press releases that the disposal strategy might be reassessed.). The steady and deep decline in our OEM and licensed sales revenues from Motorola, and thus in our cell phone product business, since September 2006 is, we believe, reflective of the risks and challenges inherent in the highly competitive cell phone handset business generally. We cannot predict when, if at all, our cell phone carry case business with this customer will begin to improve. We cannot predict the further effects that a spin-off or other re-structuring of the Mobile Devices business might have upon our business. However, we do believe that any proposed restructuring of the Mobile Devices business increases the risks and uncertainties attendant to continuation of our long-standing relationship as a reliable, valuable supplier of carry solution accessories. At the very least, the proposed spin-off or other re-structuring of the Mobile Devices business increases the likelihood that a significant recovery in levels of revenue from Motorola may require more time and be subject to greater uncertainty than a recovery of such revenues would be in the absence of strategic changes affecting the Mobile Devices unit. On the other hand, if new management of the Mobile Devices business undertakes a sweeping reassessment of all business relationships and methods, which circumstances are beyond our control, the future scope and economics of “in-box” accessories and suppliers thereof, including the Company, may be at longer term and more significant risk. If our relationship with the Mobile Devices unit were weakened as a result of a spin-off, sale or other re-structuring, our business prospects, financial condition, and results of operations may continue to be materially and adversely affected, including the possible continuation of operating and net losses. We may not realize the benefits that we anticipated under the new license agreement . Sales of cell phone products under the Motorola license have tended, generally, to have higher margins than OEM sales of cell phone products. The absence of any contribution from sales of products under the license since the expiration of the prior license in December 2007 has contributed to the decline in gross profit percentage. For that reason, we determined that entry into the new license in May 2008 would positively affect our revenues and profitability. Entry into the license presented us with clear mutual objectives and challenges: to establish new distribution channels in the North American market and to re-establish distribution channels in Europe after expiration of the prior license, intending to in both cases to leverage the network of distributors and retailers of Motorola branded products; to submit new carry case accessories for an updated Motorola cell phone handset product line; and to establish ties with a new license team. On our part we determined to expend resources to fortify our selling and administrative resources to exploit the aftermarket opportunity. To date these objectives have not been achieved to our satisfaction in the anticipated time frame, and we have realized a nominal amount of sales of licensed products under the new license. We believe that this result is due to the lack of execution as anticipated of approvals of new product samples for sale as well as the inability to implement sales initiatives with potential customers in the licensed territories. At this time, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our objectives under the new license by the end of the first quarter of Fiscal 2009, or thereafter, or that the benefits to the parties under the license will be realized as we had envisioned. Failure to achieve our objectives under the license could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is and has been characterized by a high degree of customer concentration. Our three largest customers accounted for approximately 75% and 72% of net sales in Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, respectively; the loss of, or material reduction in orders from, any of these customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 14 Forward Industries, Inc. The predominant percentage of our sales revenues is concentrated in three large OEM customers (including their international affiliates and/or their contract manufacturers). The loss of any of these key customers (whether as a result of such customers purchasing their carry solution requirements from another vendor, deciding to manufacture their own carrying cases, or eliminating the inclusion of our carrying cases with their products or otherwise) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. At any time, a significant percentage of our accounts receivable risk may be concentrated in a small number of customers. Two customers accounted for approximately 74% and 75% of our accounts receivable at September 30, 2008 and September 30, 2007, respectively. The failure to receive or collect such amounts when, and as, due could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. If any one or more of our OEM customers elect to reduce or discontinue inclusion of cases “in-box”, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. The predominant percentage of our revenues is derived from sales of case accessories to our OEM customers who package our cases “in-box” with their electronics. If OEMs generally begin to reduce or discontinue this practice, we would incur a significant decline in revenues and our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our inventory levels have settled at elevated levels since September 2006 and may remain at historically high levels in future periods, primarily as a result of the support of hub agreements recently entered into with two large OEM customers. During Fiscal 2006 we entered into hub agreements with two of our principal OEM customers, and during Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2008 entered into additional hub agreements covering additional distribution hubs with these customers. These arrangements require us to supply product to their distribution hubs based on our OEM customer's forecasts. Because product supply and stocking lead times may exceed those agreed upon with our OEM customers, during which time the customer’s forecasted demand for the period may be reduced, we may purchase and stock inventory that exceeds our OEM customers’ forecasted demand. It is only their forecast demand for which they are obligated to us. As a result, our inventory levels, liquidity, and results of operations may be adversely affected by such excess purchases. In addition, certain of these hub arrangements include terms of payment by the customer to compensate us in the event inventory stocks are not drawn down from a hub by the customer. The terms of payment vary and there can be no assurance that these arrangements will not result in a material increase in our inventory allowance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We experienced severe erosion in our OEM product sales margins during Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2008, and it is not clear when these margins will begin to improve. We continue to encounter pressures from certain OEM customers to constrain or even roll back prices. This price constraint factor has been exacerbated by inflationary pressures that affect our costs of supply. During Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2008, we have experienced significant pricing pressure from our OEM customers. We have been unable to extract comparable pricing concessions from our product suppliers across all product lines, and this has resulted in the erosion of product sales margins. We anticipate that pressures on our ability to maintain or increase prices as well as shifts in our product mix will continue to exert downward pressure on our gross profit percentage in the fiscal year ending September 30, 2009. During Fiscal 2008 and well into the first quarter of Fiscal 2009, we have faced more persistent increases in costs of goods sold, due to inflationary pressures affecting materials and labor costs incurred by our Chinese vendors and inflationary pressures generally on costs of energy and commodities. In addition, prices these vendors charge to us are reflecting the appreciation of Chinese currency against the US dollar, which are passed through to us in the form of higher US dollar prices. Other components of cost of goods sold, such as our Hong Kong/China inspection costs, which traditionally have been relatively fixed, are showing signs of wage-price inflation. During this period we also faced higher energy costs passed through to us in freight charges. When calculated on the basis of reduced sales volumes, these pressures are also contributing to reduced gross profit percentage. We cannot predict when, if at all, our overall product sales margins will begin to improve. 15 Forward Industries, Inc. Our results of operations are subject to the risks of fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar; for example, if the recent trend of appreciation of the Chinese renminbi, in which a significant portion of our suppliers’ costs are denominated, and depreciation of the US Dollar, in which most of our revenues are denominated, continues, our gross margins will be subject to further pressure. Our results of operations are expressed in U.S. Dollars. When the U.S. Dollar appreciates or depreciates in value against a currency, such as the Chinese renminbi, our results will be benefited or adversely affected, respectively. If, for example, China were to permit the renminbi to float to a free market rate of exchange, it is widely anticipated that the U.S. Dollar would depreciate in value relative to the renminbi, which could materially increase our costs of goods sold (in U.S. dollar terms) and adversely affect our results of operations if we cannot pass those costs along to our customers or if we cannot enter into financial arrangements that hedge or otherwise mitigate this risk. During Fiscal 2008 currency markets pushed the renminbi up and the U.S. Dollar down, having the effect described above. The opposite relationship would apply to sales revenues or other accounts receivable denominated in a foreign currency. When the U.S. Dollar appreciates or depreciates in value against a currency, such as the Euro, in which a significant part of our revenues is denominated, our results of operations can be adversely affected or benefited, respectively. The significant appreciation of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar since the beginning of 2003 has had the effect of increasing, in U.S. dollar terms, U.S. Dollar denominated sales on our statement of income in proportion to Euro-denominated sales revenues. A reversal of this trend could adversely affect our results of operations. Future revenues are difficult to predict and are likely to show significant variability as a consequence of customer concentration. Because our sales revenues are highly concentrated in a few large customers, and because the volumes of these customers' order flows to us are highly variable, and can fluctuate markedly in a short period of time, our quarterly revenues, and consequently our results of operations, are highly variable and subject to significant changes over a relatively short period of time. Each of these customers launches many different products and may purchase products accessories, such as carrying cases, from many different competing vendors. When we are selected to supply a carry solution for a specific product and launch, we may not be in a position to know the frequency or volumes of our customers' orders, the duration of such orders (which will depend on the product's life cycle), or the pricing of such orders, all of which depend on our customers' ongoing assessments of the product's relative contribution to their businesses, as well as other factors. Our OEM customers may keep consumer electronic products for which our carry solutions have been selected to be packaged "in-box" in active promotion for many months, or for a very short period of time, depending on the popularity of the product, product development cycles, new product introductions, and our customers' competitors' product offerings. As any consumer electronic product life (i.e., its continuing or waning popularity) and the related "in box" program mature, we may be forced to accept significant price reductions for our carry solutions, which will affect the level of our revenue. Short product life cycles are particularly characteristic of the cellular handset market, where new functionality is constantly introduced, competition between vendors is high, and industry technical standards are subject to continuing change. All of this makes our quarterly revenue levels susceptible to a high degree of variability and difficult to predict more than a quarter into the future. Significant, rapid shifts in our operating results may occur if and when one or more of these customers increase or decrease the size(s) of, or eliminate, their orders from us by amounts that are material to our business. Our gross margins, and therefore our profitability, vary considerably by customer and therefore across our product lines, and if the relative revenue contribution from one or more OEM customers changes materially, relative to total revenues, our gross profit percentage may decline. Our gross profit margins vary widely depending on the customer, order size, market in which the customer's products are sold and the types of carrying cases and related accessories sold. In addition, there is a broad range of selling prices within our soft-sided carrying cases product line, and there is also a broad range of selling prices between, for example, soft-sided carrying cases and other carry solutions such as straps, clips, and camera attachment cases. Because of the broad variability in price ranges and product types, we anticipate that gross margins, and accordingly net income, will continue to fluctuate depending on the relative revenue contribution by customer of carrying cases for cellular handsets and those for blood glucose monitors, as well as our OEM customers' order patterns and preferences for more or less expensive cases and or other accessories to be included as accessories "in box". Such fluctuations may have the effect of masking the impact of fluctuations in unit volume sale trends. 16 Forward Industries, Inc. Product manufacture is often outsourced by our OEM customers to contract manufacturing firms in China and in Southeast Asia Such firms are performing manufacturing, assembly and product packaging functions, including the bundling of product accessories such as ours with the OEM customer's product. As a consequence of this business practice, we often sell our carry solution products to the contract manufacturing firm. In these cases, we invoice the contract manufacturing firm and not the OEM customer. Therefore, it is the contract manufacturing firm's credit to which we must look for payment in such cases and not that of our OEM customer. This may alter the credit profile of our customer base and may involve significant purchase order volumes. In some, but not all cases, the manufacturing firm is itself a large, multinational entity with significant financial resources. Under our license agreement with Motorola we may become liable for certain indemnification or other liabilities and become exposed to certain risks. Each manufacturer selected by us to manufacture products for sale pursuant to our license agreement with Motorola is subject to Motorola's approval, and we are responsible for ensuring such manufacturer's compliance with the terms of the Manufacturer's Agreement (as defined in the License Agreement), in particular the proper use of the Motorola trademarks and compliance with applicable laws in the jurisdiction where the manufacturer is located. Failure of the manufacturer to comply with its obligations under such manufacturing agreement could result in termination of the license agreement, Motorola's demand that we enforce the terms of the Manufacturing Agreement against the manufacturer, at our cost and expense, or a claim for damages by Motorola against us, or a combination of the foregoing. The License Agreement expires on March 31, 2009, but both parties have certain rights of termination customary for such agreements prior to such date, including, for example, in the case of violation of the agreement, insolvency or bankruptcy of one party, or breach of representations or covenants. If we elect to give notice to terminate the license agreement under certain conditions, as specified in the agreement, before its expiration on March 31, 2009, we will be required to pay minimum royalties for the two calendar quarters commencing after the date of notice plus the remainder of the minimum royalty, if any, for the quarter in which the notice was given. In addition, Motorola and we have agreed to certain cross-indemnification provisions, which, as applicable to us, obligate us to indemnify Motorola in respect of all third party suits, actions, claims, damages and liabilities and expense against, or incurred by, Motorola arising out of or connected with the licensed products, their method of manufacture, sale or distribution, the promotional or packaging of the products, or any breach by us of the License Agreement. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events, claims, obligations, or demands could subject us to make payments or incur expense, which could be material and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Payments to us by or on behalf of our customers of accounts receivable originated in China or other Asian nations may be subject to local regulations or moratorium that restrict the right to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, or that prevent, delay, or restrict the ability to remit U.S. dollars to the United States. 17 Forward Industries, Inc. Our payment and remittance arrangements with certain customers may subject these arrangements to Chinese or other local currency regulations. In the event that any foreign government were to impose regulatory restrictions on the ability to effect conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or remittance of U.S. dollars to the United States, our receipt or recognition of U.S. dollars in payment, directly or indirectly, of invoices for sales of our products could be delayed or otherwise affected, including, for example, by a reduction in the effective exchange rate to our detriment, imposition of fees or expenses, a discounting of the amount of the account receivable, or a deferral of such accounts receivable into a future reporting period, or an outright cancellation of the payment. If this were to affect receipt or recognition of material amounts of revenues, our liquidity or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our dependence on foreign manufacturers creates quality control, product cost, pricing, availability, and delivery risks. As a result, from time to time we experience certain quality control, on-time delivery, cost, or other issues that may threaten customer relationships. All of our products are manufactured by Chinese manufacturers in China. Our reliance on foreign suppliers, manufacturers, and other contractors involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and costs, delivery schedules, the potential lack of adequate capacity, the lack of capital, and potential misappropriation of our designs. In Fiscal 2006, we transitioned the responsibility for quality assurance inspection of products from our Koszegi Asia facility to a third-party quality assurance provider. In the course of this transition we experienced a high level of turnover of Koszegi Asia quality control employees who oversee the activities of our quality assurance provider. In connection with these developments, certain quality control and delivery problems surfaced in Fiscal 2007 and other quality control issues have continued in Fiscal 2008. While we have dedicated additional management oversight to the quality control function and made it a higher priority, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts, and our failure to do so could result in the loss of a key customer, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our business reputation. Our shipments of products via container freight to customers in the United States and Europe are subject to delays or cancellation due to work stoppages or slowdowns, piracy, damage to port facilities caused by weather or terrorism, and congestion due to inadequacy of port terminal equipment and other causes. Since all of our carrying solutions products are sourced from China, the carrying cases and other products we distribute and sell must be brought to our customers' markets. To the extent that there are disruptions or delays in loading cargo in Hong Kong or Chinese ports or off-loading cargo at ports of destination as a result of labor disputes, work-rules related slowdowns, tariff or World Trade Organization-related disputes, piracy, physical damage to port terminal facilities or equipment caused by severe weather or terrorist incidents, congestion in port terminal facilities, inadequate equipment to load, dock and offload container vessels or energy-related tie-ups or otherwise, or for other reasons, product shipments to our customers will be delayed. In any such case, our customer may cancel or change the terms of its purchase order, resulting in a cancellation or delay of payments to us. A closure or partial closure of Hong Kong, Chinese, United States or European port facilities or other causes of delays in the loading, importation, offloading or movement of our products could result in increased expenses, as we try to avoid such delays, delayed shipments or cancelled orders, or all of the above. Depending on the severity of such consequences, this may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The carrying solutions business is highly competitive and does not pose significant barriers to entry. There is intense competition in the sale of carry solutions products to original equipment manufacturers. Since little or no significant proprietary technology is involved in the design, production, or distribution of products similar to our products, others may enter the business with relative ease and compete against us. Such competition may result in the diminution of our market share, the loss of one or more major OEM customers, and adversely affect our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition. Many of our competitors are larger, better capitalized, and more diversified than we are and may be better able to withstand a downturn in the general economy or in the product areas in which we specialize. These competitors may also have less sales concentration than we do and be better able to withstand the loss of a key customer or diminution of a large customer's orders. We do not pay dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since 1987. The payment in the future of cash dividends by us, if any, will depend upon our results of operations, short-term and long-term cash availability, working capital, working capital needs, and other factors, as determined by our Board of Directors. Applicable laws may also restrict the ability of a corporation to pay dividends, for example when such payment would render the corporation insolvent. We do not anticipate that cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. The absence of dividend payments on a common stock might make such stock susceptible to greater market price swings. 18 Forward Industries, Inc. We have in place anti-takeover measures and charter provisions that may prevent a hostile or unwanted effort to acquire Forward. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 4,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue such preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the relative rights and preferences thereof including their redemption, dividend and conversion rights. Our ability to issue the authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock could be used to impede takeovers of our company. Under certain circumstance, the issuance of the preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of Forward, discourage bids for the common stock at a premium, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the shares outstanding to approve a business combination such as a merger or sale of all or substantially all assets. Such provision and blank check preferred stock may discourage attempts to acquire Forward. Applicable laws that impose restrictions on, or regulate the manner of, a takeover attempt may also have the effect of deterring any such transaction. We are not aware of any attempt to acquire Forward. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 