Risk Factors - The carrying solutions business is highly competitive and does not pose significant barriers to entry.” Employees At September 30, 2007, we had 49 full-time employees, of whom 3 are employed in executive capacities, 5 are employed in administrative and clerical capacities, 19 are employed in sales and sales support capacities, and 22 are employed in sourcing, quality control, and warehouse capacities. We consider our employee relations to be satisfactory. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Since June 2003, we have employed our U.S. employees through a co-employment agreement with ADP Total Source, a Professional Employer Organization. The objective of this arrangement is for ADP Total Source to assume many of the legal and administrative responsibilities of human resources management, health benefits, workers' compensation, payroll, payroll tax compliance, 401(K) plan administration and unemployment insurance. Regulation and Environmental Protection Our business is subject to various regulations in various jurisdictions, including the United States and member states of the European Community, that restrict the use or importation of products manufactured with compounds deemed to be hazardous. We work with our suppliers to ensure compliance with such regulations. In addition, from time to time one or more customers may require testing of our products to ensure compliance with applicable consumer safety rules and regulations. Because we do not engage in the manufacture of products that we sell and distribute, compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, has not had, and is not anticipated to have, any direct material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. However, compliance with such laws and regulations on the part of our suppliers may result in increased costs of supply to us, particularly if domestic environmental regulation in China becomes more prevalent and effective. In addition, under our license agreement with Motorola, we may be responsible for ensuring our Chinese suppliers’ compliance with applicable regulations, including, among others, those relating to worker safety, child labor laws, and environmental protection. This may require us to incur administrative and/or legal expense in working with our suppliers to achieve such compliance. We have not been engaged in any environmental litigation or incurred any material costs related to compliance with environmental or other regulations. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Please read the note regarding "Cautionary statement for purposes of the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" that appears on page 22 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have to date been unable to conclude a new license agreement with Motorola; we are unable to predict if or when a new or extended agreement will be offered on terms acceptable to us; the absence of a renewal or extended license could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Forward Industries, Inc. Our license agreement with Motorola, Inc. expires on December 31, 2007. We have sought to initiate discussions with Motorola relating to the renewal or extension of the license on terms acceptable to us. To date, we have received no constructive response upon which to base negotiations for such renewal or extension. Motorola is our second largest customer, as detailed in the risk factor set forth immediately below. We continue to anticipate that Motorola and we will enter into discussions relating to an extension or new agreement; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to conclude a new or extended agreement on terms that we find acceptable, if at all. If we cannot conclude an extension or a new license agreement upon or after the expiration of the current license on December 31, 2007, our rights to sell certain cell phone carry solution cases and accessories bearing the Motorola trademark will expire at that time, except for limited sell-through rights with respect to existing inventory then on hand. The expiration of the license agreement with Motorola without an extension or renewal could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to the reduction of revenues as a consequence of losing aftermarket sales to cell phone retailers and distributors, our profit margins could suffer materially, as currently margins on certain sales of licensed products exceed those in respect of sales of many OEM cell phone sales. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Trends in Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Annual Report. Further, we are unable to predict the impact, if any, that a failure to extend or renew the license agreement would have on our OEM customer relationship with Motorola, but any such impact could be adverse and material simply because Motorola is and has been a very significant customer for us. Moreover, if the trend in declining OEM revenues from this customer and declining licensed sales under license with this customer continues or further accelerates, as it did in Fiscal 2007, the effect on our results of operations and financial condition could be material. Our business is and has been characterized by a high degree of customer concentration. Our three largest customers accounted for approximately 72% , 65% and 79% of net sales in Fiscal 2007, Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005, respectively; the loss of, or material reduction in orders from, any of these customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The predominant percentage of our sales revenues is concentrated in three large OEM customers (including their international affiliates and/or their contract manufacturers). The loss of any of these three key customers (whether as a result of such customers purchasing their carry solution requirements from another vendor, deciding to manufacture their own carrying cases, or eliminating the inclusion of our carrying cases with their products or otherwise) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Dollars in millions Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2005 Customer: Net Sales Percentage of Net Sales Net Sales Percentage of Net Sales Net Sales Percentage of Net Sales Lifescan $ 7.1 32% $ 5.3 17% $ 6.0 12% Motorola * 6.0 27% 11.3 37% 29.0 56% Abbott 2.9 13% 3.3 11% ** ** Nokia ** ** ** ** 5.7 11% Totals $16.0 72% $19.9 65% $40.7 79% * Amounts exclude approximately 9%, 11% and 3% of our net sales, or $2.0 million, $3.2 million and $1.5 million of products under our license agreement with Motorola for Fiscal 2007, Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005, respectively. ** Amount not disclosed because the percentage of net sales was less than 10%. At any time, a significant percentage of our accounts receivable risk may be concentrated in a small number of customers. Two customers accounted for approximately 75% of our accounts receivable at September 30, 2007 and September 30, 2006, respectively. The failure to receive or collect such amounts when, and as, due could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. Our inventory levels increased during Fiscal 2006 and may remain at historically high levels in future periods, primarily as a result of the support of hub agreements recently entered into with two large OEM customers. 13 Forward Industries, Inc. In Fiscal 2006 we entered into hub agreements with two of our principal OEM customers, and during Fiscal 2007 entered into additional hub agreements covering additional distribution hubs with these customers. These arrangements require us to supply product to their distribution hubs based on our OEM customer's forecasts. Because product supply and stocking lead times may exceed those agreed upon with our OEM customers, during which time the customer’s forecasted demand for the period may be reduced, we may purchase and stock inventory that exceeds our OEM customers’ forecasted demand for which they are obligated to us. As a result, our inventory levels, liquidity, and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, certain of these arrangements include terms of payment by the customer to compensate us in the event inventory stocks are not drawn down from a hub by the customer. The terms of payment vary and there can be no assurance that these arrangements will not result in a material increase in our inventory allowance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We experienced severe erosion in our OEM product sales margins during Fiscal 2006 and this has continued in Fiscal 2007, and it is not clear when these margins will begin to improve. We continue to encounter pressures from certain OEM customers to constrain or even roll back prices. During Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2007, we experienced significant pricing pressure from our OEM customers in both cell phone product sales and blood glucose monitor carrying case sales. We have been unable to extract comparable pricing concessions from our product suppliers across all product lines, which has resulted in the erosion of product sales margins. We anticipate that pressures on our pricing power and shifts in our product mix will continue to exert downward pressure on our gross profit percentage in the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008. Other components of cost of goods sold, such as our Hong Kong/China inspection costs, which traditionally have been relatively fixed, are showing signs of wage-price inflation. We also face higher energy costs passed through to us in freight charges. When calculated on the basis of reduced sales volumes, these pressures are also contributing to reduced gross profit percentage. We cannot predict when, if at all, our overall product sales margins will begin to improve. If we are unable to renew the license agreement with Motorola on terms acceptable to us, as detailed in the risk factor above, our product sales margins could be subject to further compression, as margins on licensed aftermarket sales are frequently more advantageous to us than on OEM sales. Our business could suffer if the services of any of the key personnel we rely on were lost to us. We are highly dependent on the efforts and services of certain key sales representatives. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we lost the services of such individuals. If we lost the services of a key sales representative upon whom our relationships with two major OEM customers is dependent, we might experience a reduction in or significant loss of orders from such customers, resulting in a loss of revenues, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition Our results of operations are subject to the risks of fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar; for example, if the recent trend of appreciation of the Chinese renminbi, in which a significant portion of our suppliers’ costs are denominated, and depreciation of the US Dollar, in which most of our revenues are denominated, continues, our gross margins will be subject to further pressure. Our results of operations are expressed in U.S. Dollars. When the U.S. Dollar appreciates or depreciates in value against a currency, such as the Chinese renminbi, our results will be benefited or adversely affected, respectively. If, for example, China were to permit the renminbi to float to a free market rate of exchange, it is widely anticipated that the U.S. Dollar would depreciate further in value relative to the renminbi, which could materially increase our costs of goods sold (in U.S. dollar terms) and adversely affect our results of operations if we cannot pass those costs along to our customers or if we cannot enter into financial arrangements that hedge or otherwise mitigate this risk. In recent months currency markets have pushed the renminbi up and the U.S. Dollar down, having the effect described above. The opposite relationship would apply to sales revenues or other accounts receivable denominated in a foreign currency. When the U.S. Dollar appreciates or depreciates in value against a currency, such as the Euro, in which a significant part of our revenues is denominated, our results of operations can be adversely affected or benefited, respectively. The significant appreciation of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar since the beginning of 2003 has had the effect of increasing, in U.S. dollar terms, U.S. Dollar denominated sales on our statement of income in proportion to Euro-denominated sales revenues. A reversal of this trend could adversely affect our results of operations. Future revenues are difficult to predict and are likely to show significant variability as a consequence of customer concentration. Because our sales revenues are highly concentrated in a few large customers, and because the volumes of these customers' order flows to us are highly variable, and can fluctuate markedly in a short period of time, our quarterly revenues, and consequently our results of operations, are highly variable and subject to significant changes over a relatively short period of time. 14 Forward Industries, Inc. Each of these customers launches many different products and may purchase products accessories, such as carrying cases, from many different competing vendors. When we are selected to supply a carry solution for a specific product and launch, we may not be in a position to know the frequency or volumes of our customers' orders, the duration of such orders (which will depend on the product's life cycle), or the pricing of such orders, all of which depend on our customers' ongoing assessments of the product's relative contribution to their businesses, as well as other factors. Our OEM customers may keep products for which our carry solutions have been selected to be packaged "in-box" in active promotion for many months, or for a very short period of time, depending on the popularity of the product, product development cycles, new product introductions, and our customers' competitors' product offerings. As the customer's product life and the related "in box" program mature, we may be forced to accept significant price reductions for our carry solutions, which will affect the level of our revenue. Short product life cycles are particularly characteristic of the cellular handset market, where new functionality is constantly introduced, competition between vendors is high, and industry technical standards are subject to continuing change. All of this makes our quarterly revenue levels susceptible to a high degree of variability and difficult to predict more than a quarter into the future. Significant, rapid shifts in our operating results may occur if and when one or more of these customers increase or decrease the size(s) of, or eliminate, their orders from us by amounts that are material to our business. Our gross margins, and therefore our profitability, vary considerably by customer and therefore across our product lines, and if the relative revenue contribution from one or more OEM customers changes materially, relative to total revenues, our gross profit percentage may decline. Our gross profit margins vary widely depending on the customer, order size, market in which the customer's products are sold and the types of carrying cases sold. In addition, there is a broad range of selling prices within our soft-sided carrying cases product line, and there is also a broad range of selling prices between, for example, soft-sided carrying cases and other carry solutions such as straps, clips, and camera attachment cases. Because of the broad variability in price ranges and product types, we anticipate that gross margins, and accordingly net income, will continue to fluctuate depending on the relative revenue contribution by customer of carrying cases for cellular handsets and those for blood glucose monitors, as well as our OEM customers' order patterns and preferences for more or less expensive cases to be included as accessories "in box". Such fluctuations may have the effect of masking the impact of fluctuations in unit volume sale trends. Product manufacture is increasingly being outsourced by our OEM customers to contract manufacturing firms in China and in Southeast Asia Such firms are performing manufacturing, assembly and product packaging functions, including the bundling of product accessories such as ours with the OEM customer's product. As a consequence of this trend, we are increasingly selling our carry solution products to the contract manufacturing firm. In these cases, we invoice the contract manufacturing firm and not the OEM customer. Therefore, it is the contract manufacturing firm's credit to which we must look for payment in such cases and not that of our OEM customer. This may alter the credit profile of our customer base and may involve significant purchase order volumes. In some, but not all cases, the manufacturing firm is itself a large, multinational entity with significant financial resources. Under our license agreement with Motorola we may become liable for certain indemnification or other liabilities and become exposed to certain risks. Each manufacturer selected by us to manufacture products for sale pursuant to our license agreement with Motorola is subject to Motorola's approval, and we are responsible for ensuring such manufacturer's compliance with the terms of the Manufacturer's Agreement (as defined in the License Agreement), in particular the proper use of the Motorola trademarks and compliance with applicable laws in the jurisdiction where the manufacturer is located. Failure of the manufacturer to comply with its obligations under such manufacturing agreement could result in termination of the license agreement, Motorola's demand that we enforce the terms of the Manufacturing Agreement against the manufacturer, at our cost and expense, or a claim for damages by Motorola against us, or a combination of the foregoing. 15 Forward Industries, Inc. The License Agreement expires on December 31, 2007, but both parties have certain rights of termination customary for such agreements prior to such date, including, for example, in the case of violation of the agreement, insolvency or bankruptcy of one party, or breach of representations or covenants. We are required to pay a penalty of an amount equal to up to one year's minimum guaranteed royalty if we terminate the License Agreement under certain conditions as specified in the agreement. In addition, Motorola and we have agreed to certain cross-indemnification provisions, which, as applicable to us, obligate us to indemnify Motorola in respect of all third party suits, actions, claims, damages and liabilities and expense against, or incurred by, Motorola arising out of or connected with the licensed products, their method of manufacture, sale or distribution, the promotional or packaging of the products, or any breach by us of the License Agreement. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events, claims, obligations, or demands could subject us to make payment or incur expense, which could be material and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Payment by or on behalf of our customers of accounts receivable originated in China or other Asian nations may be subject to local regulations or moratorium that restrict the right to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, that prevent, delay, or restrict the ability to repatriate U.S. dollars to the United States. Our payment and remittance arrangements with certain customers may subject these arrangements to Chinese or other local currency regulations. In the event that any foreign government were to impose regulatory restrictions on the ability to effect conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or repatriation of U.S. dollars to the United States, our receipt or recognition of U.S. dollars in payment, directly or indirectly, of invoices for sales of our products could be delayed or otherwise affected, including, for example, by a reduction in effective exchange rate to our detriment, imposition of fees or expenses, a discounting of the amount of the account receivable, or a deferral of such accounts receivable into a future reporting period. If this were to affect receipt or recognition of material amounts of revenues, our liquidity or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our dependence on foreign manufacturers creates product cost, pricing, availability, quality control, and delivery risks. All of our products are manufactured by Chinese manufacturers in China. We do not have any written agreements with any such supplier to guarantee supply to us of finished product, nor do we have any arrangements for minimum purchase requirements with any such supplier. Our supply arrangements with these manufacturers are subject to various commercial, economic, foreign exchange, political, and other risks and uncertainties. Among other risks, our supply arrangements with these manufacturers are subject to the risks of cost increases; restrictions on transfer of funds; export duties, quotas, and embargoes; domestic and international customs and tariffs; foreign exchange risk; changing taxation policies; foreign exchange restrictions; and political instability, domestic political considerations, and governmental regulations. Our reliance on foreign suppliers, manufacturers, and other contractors involves significant risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, and costs, the potential lack of adequate capacity, and potential misappropriation of our designs. In the course of transitioning responsibility for quality assurance inspection of products from our Koszegi Asia facility to a third-party quality assurance provider and reengineering our quality assurance processes, certain problems in quality control consistency and standards have from time to time surfaced during Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2007. We are working to improve the quality and frequency of the oversight by Koszegi Asia employees of the quality control activities of this quality assurance provider in order to bring quality assurance operations to our standards on a consistent basis, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will be effective in order to improve to a consistently high standard the work of this logistics firm. Failures on the part thereof, or on the part of Koszegi Asia to improve the standards of this work, may adversely affect customer relationships and could result in the loss of a key customer, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our business reputation. Our shipments of products via container freight to customers in the United States and Europe are subject to delays or cancellation due to work stoppages or slowdowns, damage to port facilities caused by weather or terrorism, and congestion due to inadequacy of port terminal equipment and other causes. 16 Forward Industries, Inc. Since all of our carrying solutions products are sourced from China, the carrying cases and other products we distribute and sell must be brought to our customers' markets. To the extent that there are disruptions or delays in loading cargo in Hong Kong or Chinese ports or off-loading cargo at ports of destination as a result of labor disputes, work-rules related slowdowns, tariff or World Trade Organization-related disputes, physical damage to port terminal facilities or equipment caused by severe weather or terrorist incidents, congestion in port terminal facilities, inadequate equipment to load, dock and offload container vessels or energy-related tie-ups or otherwise, or for other reasons, product shipments to our customers will be delayed. In any such case, our customer may cancel or change the terms of its purchase order, resulting in a cancellation or delay of payments to us. A closure or partial closure of Hong Kong, Chinese, United States or European port facilities or other causes of delays in the loading, importation, offloading or movement of our products could result in increased expenses, as we try to avoid such delays, delayed shipments or cancelled orders, or all of the above. Depending on the severity of such consequences, this may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The carrying solutions business is highly competitive and does not pose significant barriers to entry. There is intense competition in the sale of carry solutions products to original equipment manufacturers. Since little or no significant proprietary technology is involved in the design, production, or distribution of products similar to our products, others may enter the business with relative ease and compete against us. Such competition may result in the diminution of our market share, the loss of one or more major OEM customers, and adversely affect our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition. Many of our competitors are larger, better capitalized, and more diversified than we are and may be better able to withstand a downturn in the general economy or in the product areas in which we specialize. These competitors may also have less sales concentration than we do and be better able to withstand the loss of a key customer or diminution of a large customer's orders. We do not pay dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since 1987. The payment in the future of cash dividends by us, if any, will depend upon our results of operations, short-term and long-term cash availability, working capital, working capital needs, and other factors, as determined by our Board of Directors. Applicable laws may also restrict the ability of a corporation to pay dividends, for example when such payment would render the corporation insolvent. We do not anticipate that cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. The absence of dividend payments on a common stock might make such stock susceptible to greater market price swings. Because of the control by insiders of 11% of our common stock, your ability to influence actions taken by us may be limited. As of November 15, 2007, our executive officers and members of our Board of Directors, directly or indirectly, beneficially owned 916,627 shares of common stock, including 232,000 shares of common stock subject to currently exercisable stock options, aggregating approximately 11% of our issued and outstanding common stock on such date. By virtue of their ownership of such common stock and their positions as executive officers, such executive officers and directors or their affiliates may, collectively, be deemed to control Forward Industries through the exercise of sufficient voting power to effectively control (or, at least, exercise a significant influence upon) the election of our Board, direct the appointment of our officers and, in general, significantly influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and to prevent or cause a change in the control of Forward. 17 Forward Industries, Inc. We have in place anti-takeover measures that may prevent a hostile or unwanted effort to acquire Forward. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 4,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue such preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the relative rights and preferences thereof including their redemption, dividend and conversion rights. Our ability to issue the authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock could be used to impede takeovers of our company. Under certain circumstance, the issuance of the preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of Forward, discourage bids for the common stock at a premium, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Such provisions may discourage attempts to acquire Forward. Applicable laws that impose restrictions on, or regulate the manner of, a takeover attempt may also have the effect of deterring any such transaction. We are not aware of any attempt to acquire Forward. If the license agreement with Motorola is renewed, we may be obligated to pay substantial minimum royalties without a guarantee of minimum sales. Currently, under the terms of our license agreement with Motorola, we have committed to pay Motorola minimum royalties for the sale of Motorola trademarked products. Motorola has not guaranteed to us a minimum amount of sales or revenues from the sale of those trademarked products. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient revenues to recoup the minimum royalty payments that we are obligated to pay to Motorola. We may incur similar obligations without guarantee of minimum revenues if a new agreement is concluded, as to which there can be no assurance. If our common stock were to be de-listed from the NASDAQ SmallCap Market, the existing market prices for and liquidity of our common stock may decline. The National Association of Securities Dealers' listing requirements require, among other things, that all issuers of securities listed on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market maintain a continued minimum bid price per share of such securities of $1.00. In October 2002, NASDAQ advised us that our common stock did not meet the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules and that our common stock would be de-listed for failing to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4). After a hearing in December 2002 requested by us to review NASDAQ's determination, NASDAQ reversed its delisting determination, and we maintained our NASDAQ listing without interruption. As of November 26, 2007, we believe that the Company complies with the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules in all material respects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 