Item 1A. Risk Factors. Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the "Safe Harbor" Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to historical information, this report contains statements relating to future events or our future results. These statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by statute. Generally words such as "may", "will", "should", "could", "would", "anticipate", "expect", "intend", "estimate", "plan", "continue" and "believe" or the negative of or other variation on these and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements with respect to potential liabilities relating to litigation currently pending against us, our ability to meet covenants in our loan documents, changes in market conditions, anticipated delivery of homes in backlog, expected warranty costs, future land acquisitions and the availability of sufficient capital for us to meet our operating needs, are made only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties and our future results could differ significantly from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. 12 Many factors, including those listed below, could cause our actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements: The homebuilding industry is experiencing a severe and extended downturn that may continue for an indefinite period and may continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations and stockholders' equity. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained downturn characterized by decreased demand for new homes, an oversupply of both new and resale home inventories, including foreclosed homes; aggressive price competition among homebuilders, including increased incentives for home sales and; a more restrictive mortgage lending environment. Economic conditions in the United States have also weakened recently, which puts continued pressure on consumer confidence for residential real estate. These industry and economic trends have resulted in downward pressure on our home prices, fewer home sales and increased cancellation rates. As a result, we have experienced a significant reduction in revenues and margins. These challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and, in the near term, these conditions may further deteriorate. We expect that continued weakness in the homebuilding industry could further adversely affect our business, results of operations and stockholders' equity. Deterioration in economic conditions in general could further reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition. Changes in national and local economic conditions could have a negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence and income, interest rates and population growth may further reduce demand, depress prices for our homes and cause homebuyers to cancel their agreements to purchase our homes, thereby possibly reducing earnings and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Recent changes in these economic variables have had an adverse affect on consumer demand for, and the pricing of, our homes, causing our revenues to decline and future deterioration in economic conditions could have further adverse effects. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry may reduce the demand for our homes and the availability of home mortgage financing, among other things. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company, its ability to borrow money to finance its operations from its existing lenders under its Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement or otherwise, and could also adversely impact the availability of financing to our customers. Home prices and sales activities in our Pennsylvania, New Jersey, North Carolina, and Virginia markets have a significant impact on our sales and earnings because we conduct a significant portion of our business in these markets. We presently conduct a significant portion of our business in our Pennsylvania, New Jersey, North Carolina, and Virginia markets. Demand for new homes and home prices have recently been declining in these markets. There can be no assurance that our earnings and financial position will not be further impacted if the challenging conditions in these markets continue or worsen. Continued high cancellation rates may negatively impact our business. Our backlog reflects the number and value of sold but undelivered homes. Our sales contracts typically require purchasers to make a cash deposit. Generally, under our contracts, we have the right 13 to compel the customer to complete the purchase; however, our only effective remedy may be the retention of the deposit. In some cases, a customer may receive full or partial return of the deposit. If the current industry downturn continues, economic conditions continue to deteriorate or if mortgage financing becomes less accessible, more homebuyers may find it advantageous to cancel their contracts with us and risk forfeiting their deposit, either in full or in part, rather than complete the purchase. Significant cancellations have had, and could have in the future, a negative impact on our business and results of operations. We currently have a significant amount of debt. To service our indebtedness and continue our operations, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. We currently have a significant amount of debt. As of June 30, 2008, our total consolidated indebtedness was $501,851, which includes mortgage and other note obligations, subordinated notes and other notes payable. In addition, subject to the restrictions in our revolving credit facility and our trust preferred securities, we may incur significant additional indebtedness. The amount of additional debt that we can incur under these restrictions varies over time based on a number of factors, including borrowing base availability under the senior secured revolving credit facility at such time. We may also need additional funding for our operations. There is no guarantee that additional borrowings will be available to us. In the event that we are able to make additional borrowings and such borrowings materially alter our debt to capitalization ratio, it may be more difficult and expensive for us to obtain additional capital, specifically debt. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our indebtedness and to acquire land will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, capital markets, competitive, legislative, financial services industry conditions, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We can make no assurances that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. Furthermore, challenging conditions in the capital markets and financial services industry has resulted in difficulty in obtaining debt financing. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof or incur additional debt. Our senior secured credit facility matures on December 20, 2009. We can make no assurances that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including, but not limited to, our senior secured revolving credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing to fund our operations or expansion, it could adversely affect our results of operations and future growth. Our significant level of debt and challenging industry conditions for financial institutions could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional debt financing in the future. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all. If the market continues to deteriorate, we may default under the financial covenants in our senior secured revolving credit facility and, if we default on such financial covenants, we may be unable to obtain amendments to, or waivers under, our senior secured revolving credit facility. If we raise additional funds by incurring additional debt, we will incur increased debt service costs and may become subject to more restrictive financial and other covenants which could limit our ability to operate our business as we desire. In addition, increases in interest rates can make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain the funds we need to operate our business. The financing agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could lead to acceleration of debt. Our senior secured revolving credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants and requirements that limit our ability to engage in certain activities. For example, under our senior secured 14 revolving credit facility we are subject to covenants requiring us to maintain a minimum consolidated tangible net worth; minimum liquidity; minimum cash flow from operations ratios; minimum unrestricted cash held for more than five business days; and limitations on certain land acquisition and joint venture investment; and a prohibition on dividends. In addition, there are various financial covenants with respect to the value of land in certain stages of development that we may own. The agreements and instruments governing our other debt, such as our trust preferred securities, also contain other covenants and requirements. Failure to comply with any of the covenants or requirements in our existing or future financing agreements or instruments could result in an event of default under those agreements or instruments. Our senior secured revolving credit facility also contains a cross-default provision so that a default under the agreements or instruments governing our other debt could cause a default under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Further, a default under our senior secured revolving credit facility could prevent us from making payments required by our trust preferred securities. If not cured, a payment default or other event of default could result in the acceleration of all or most of our debt and permit lenders to foreclose upon any collateral securing that debt. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they made to supply us with further funds. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. The limitations imposed by our financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. Our second amended and restated secured revolving credit facility also generally requires that all real property sales by Borrowers and Guarantor be conducted through a title company with the proceeds of sale going directly to the agent under the credit facility to immediately reduce advances under the facility. As this process will generally preclude us from having direct access to revenues generated from our operations, we will be required to make frequent draws under our credit facility. If there is any interruption in our ability to make draws under our credit facility, even if temporary or only partial and notwithstanding our intention to hold significant cash working capital reserves to the extent our credit facility permits such amounts and subject to borrowing base availability, our ability to operate our business could be materially and adversely impacted. In the past two fiscal years, we have amended our senior secured revolving credit facility several times and have also received a waiver and an extension of such waiver prior to the completion of the most recent amendment. Were it not for these amendments and the waiver, we would not have been able to comply with the covenants contained in the senior secured revolving credit facility. We can make no assurances that we will be able to comply with our covenants in the future or will be able to obtain future amendments or waivers of the covenants in our financing agreements and instruments, if necessary, upon acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, future amendments or waivers are likely to place future restrictions on our ability to engage in certain activities, as well as increase the cost of our financing. The anticipated reappraisal of a material amount of assets in our borrowing base could decrease our liquidity and materially and adversely impact our operations. Under our second amended and restated credit agreement, we agreed to allow the lenders to conduct future appraisals on a fair market value basis on all projects with a GAAP cost of at least $4,000 to be phased in generally over the next three fiscal quarters, but excluding the projects already recently appraised. In the event that the reappraisals result in a determination that a material amount of the assets in our borrowing base have a value lower than the cost and the existing appraised values, the net availability under the credit facility could be materially reduced from existing or anticipated levels. Such a reduction in net availability could require us to repay a portion of the amounts outstanding under our credit facility or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our continuing operations, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 15 Increases in interest rates, tightening of lending standards and decreases, limitations or restrictions in the availability of mortgage financing and other economic factors outside our control, such as consumer confidence and declines in employment levels could lead to fewer home sales, which could adversely affect our total earned revenues and earnings. The large majority of our customers finance their purchases through mortgage financing obtained through us or other sources and our business and earnings, therefore, depend on the ability of our customers to obtain mortgages for their home purchases. The United States residential mortgage market is experiencing significant disruption. Mortgage interest rates have recently experienced significant volatility and contributed to the challenging market conditions faced by us and the housing industry. In addition, as a result of increased default rates and other factors, the willingness of many lenders to make home mortgage loans has decreased and lenders have tightened their lending standards. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other nonconforming loans has caused lenders to eliminate such loans. The volatility in interest rates, the decrease in the willingness of lenders to make home mortgage loans, the tightening of lending standards and the availability of fewer loan products have made it more difficult for some potential buyers to finance the purchase of our homes. Potential buyers may not be able to obtain acceptable financing to purchase our homes, leading to further declines in the market for our homes. In particular, because the availability of mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing many of our homes, any limitations or restrictions on the availability of mortgage financing or increases in mortgage interest rates could reduce our home sales, the lending volume at our mortgage brokerage subsidiary and our total earned revenues, earnings and future backlog. Even if our potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their existing homes to potential buyers who need financing. Any limitations or restrictions on the availability of mortgage financing, further interest rate increases or limits on the deductibility of home mortgages could adversely affect our sales, which would reduce our revenues. The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 includes a provision that eliminates, effective October 1, 2008, seller-financed down payment assistance programs for Federal Housing Administration loans. Although not material to the Company on a direct basis, seller-financed down payment assistance programs were important to some of our competitors in certain markets. The elimination of such seller financed down payment assistance programs could lead to increased cancellations and lower orders for our competitors. Such actions could result in further national discounting by our competitors, which could result in lower demand for our homes and put competitive pressure on us to further reduce our home prices thereby affecting our revenues and margins. We also believe that the availability of mortgage financing provided by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the Federal Housing Administration or the Veteran's Administration is an important factor in marketing many of our homes. Any limitations or restrictions on the availability of those types of financing could reduce our sales. We are subject to substantial risks with respect to the land and home inventories we maintain and fluctuations in market conditions may affect our ability to sell our land and home inventories at expected prices, if at all, which could reduce our total earned revenues and earnings. As a homebuilder, we must constantly locate and acquire new tracts of land for development and developed homesites to support our homebuilding operations. There is a lag between the time we acquire land for development or developed homesites and the time that we can bring the communities built on the acquired land to market and deliver homes. As a result, we face the risk that demand for housing may decline during this period (as has occurred in the industry since 2006) and that we will not be able to dispose of developed properties or undeveloped land or homesites acquired for development at expected prices or within anticipated time frames or at all. The market value of home inventories, undeveloped land and developed homesites can fluctuate significantly because of changing market 16 conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs (including interest on funds used to acquire land or build homes) can be significant and can adversely affect our performance. Because of these factors, we may be forced to sell homes, land or lots at a loss or for prices that generate lower profit than we anticipate. As we did during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2007, we may also be required to make material write-downs of the book value of our real estate assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Deterioration of market conditions in the homebuilding industry and customer demand could adversely affect our land inventory and property market values. During the year ended June 30, 2008, we decided not to pursue development of certain parcels of land on which we had option agreements and the acquisition of certain lots on which we had options resulting in write-offs of land deposits and pre-acquisition costs. In addition, we recorded significant impairments to residential properties completed or under construction and land held for development or sale and improvements. The impairments were primarily due to a slower than anticipated pace of new orders and increases in sales incentives required to generate new home orders, as well as certain land sales completed primarily in December 2007. These write-offs and impairments adversely affected our results of operations during the year ended June 30, 2008. If market conditions in the homebuilding industry or customer demand continue to deteriorate or do not improve in future periods, we may decide not to pursue development of additional parcels of land or the acquisition of additional lots on which we have option agreements, and the value of existing land holdings and residential properties may continue to decline. This would lead to further write-offs of deposits and pre-acquisition costs and impairments to residential properties and land held for development or sale and improvements. In addition, over the past year we have sold many land assets of the Company, resulting in the exit of the Company from Palm Bay and Palm Coast, Florida and Arizona markets and reduced positions in the Orlando, Florida and Chicago, Illinois markets. If the market conditions in the homebuilding industry continue to deteriorate or do not improve in future periods, we may need to sell additional land assets in these or other markets, depleting the number of home lots available to us, which could adversely affect an ability to build new homes, thus affecting our sales and reducing our future revenues from the sale of homes. The market value of our inventory could drop significantly, which may require further write-downs to the carrying value of our real estate held for development and sale to its estimated fair value, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The Company acquires land for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets, as well as expansion into new markets. Prevailing market conditions may significantly influence the market value of our land held for development or sale and improvements and our residential properties completed or under construction. If the market conditions continue to deteriorate, we may be required to further write-down the carrying value of our real estate held for development and sale to its estimated fair value. Such write-downs would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry could increase our costs, reduce our total earned revenues and earnings and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations or limit our growth. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete in each of our markets with a number of national, regional and local builders for customers, undeveloped land and homesites, raw materials and labor. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, more established market positions and better opportunities for land and homesite acquisitions than we do 17 and have lower costs of capital, labor and material than we do. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry could, among other things: •cause us to increase incentives to potential homebuyers which could reduce our profit margins; •make it difficult for us to acquire suitable land or homesites at acceptable prices and terms which could adversely affect our ability to build homes; •require us to increase incentives and selling commissions which could reduce our profit margins; •result in delays in construction if we experience a delay in procuring materials or hiring trades people or laborers; •result in lower sales volume and total earned revenues; and •increase our costs and reduce our earnings. We also compete with resales of existing homes (including the growing number of foreclosed homes offered at substantially reduced prices), available rental housing and, to a lesser extent, condominium resales. An oversupply of competitively priced resale or rental homes in the markets in which we operate could adversely affect our ability to sell homes profitably. Due to our significant debt levels, challenging conditions in the capital markets and financial services industry, we may not have the capital resources in the near term to acquire land that opportunistically becomes available from financial institutions through foreclosures or from troubled homebuilders. Some of our competitors may be in better position to take advantage of such favorable acquisition opportunities that should likely become available in the future. We may be unable to obtain suitable bonding for the development of our communities. We provide bonds to governmental authorities and others to ensure the completion of our projects. If we are unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could be adversely affected. As a result of the recent deterioration in market conditions, the availability of surety bonds has significantly decreased. In addition, surety bond providers could refuse to provide surety bonds in the future or they could require credit enhancements in order to maintain existing bonds or to issue new bonds. As a result, we may be unable to maintain existing surety bonds or obtain new surety bonds on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain required bonds in the future, or are required to provide credit enhancements with respect to our current or future bonds, our liquidity could be negatively impacted. We may not be able to acquire suitable land at reasonable prices, which could result in cost increases we are unable to recover and reduce our total earned revenues and earnings. Our ability to continue our homebuilding activities over the long-term depends upon our ability to locate and acquire suitable parcels of land or developed homesites to support our homebuilding operations. The cost of acquiring suitable land may rise and the availability of suitable parcels at acceptable prices may decline. In addition, due to our significant debt levels, other homebuilders with more readily available capital resources may be in a better position to take advantage of favorable acquisition opportunities that could arrive in the future. If we are unable to acquire suitable land or developed homesites at reasonable prices, it could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs that we may not be able to pass through to our customers. Consequently, this competition could reduce the number of homes we sell or our profit margins and lead to a decrease in our total earned revenues and earnings. 18 We are subject to construction defect, product liability and warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business that could adversely affect our results of operations. As a homebuilder, we are subject in the ordinary course of our business to construction defect, product liability and home warranty claims. We generally provide our homebuyers with a one to two year limited warranty covering workmanship and materials and a ten year limited warranty covering major structural defects. Claims arising under these warranties and construction defect and general product liability claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. Although we maintain construction defect and product liability insurance, the coverage offered by, and availability of, this insurance is currently limited and, where coverage is available, it may be costly. As a result of increasing insurance costs and an analysis of our claims history, we self-insure the first $2,000 of each construction defect and product liability claim. Our product liability insurance and homebuilder protective policies contain limitations with respect to coverage, and these insurance rights may not be adequate to cover all construction defect, product liability and warranty claims for which we may be liable. In the future, coverage could be further restricted and become more costly. In addition, although we generally seek to require our subcontractors and design professionals to indemnify us for liabilities arising from their work, we may be unable to enforce any such contractual indemnities. Uninsured and unindemnified construction defect, product liability and warranty claims, as well as the cost of product liability insurance and our homebuilder protective policy, could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. We may be subject to mold litigation and mold claims arising in the ordinary course of business for which we have no insurance that could adversely affect our results of operations. Lawsuits have been filed against homebuilders, including us, and insurers asserting claims of property damage and personal injury caused by the presence of mold in homes. Some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements against homebuilders and their insurers. Our insurance carriers have excluded coverage for claims arising from the presence of mold and we have not set aside any funds to pay for potential damages relating to mold claims. Uninsured mold liability and claims against us could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. We may be subject to environmental liabilities that could adversely affect our results of operations or the value of our properties. Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations including those relating to discharges to air and water, storage and disposal of waste, disturbance of wetlands and clean up of contaminated soil or groundwater. In addition, development and sale of real property creates a potential for environmental liability on our part as owner and developer, for our own acts as well as the acts of prior owners or operators. If we fail to comply with environmental requirements or regulated materials are discovered on, under or emanating from any of our current or former properties, we may be held liable for costs and liabilities relating to those materials. In addition, environmental hazards on parcels of land adjacent to any of our properties could also negatively impact the value of our properties or result in liabilities. Should a substantial environmental hazard be found on any of our properties or adjacent properties, our results of operations and the value of the contaminated property could be adversely affected. New requirements or more stringent enforcement of existing laws or regulations could also result in increased costs. We depend upon the continued services of certain members of our senior management team and the loss of their services could harm our business. Our future success and ability to implement our current business plan depends, in part, on the continuing services of our senior management team, led by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey P. Orleans. Members of our senior management team possess industry, sales, marketing, 19 financial and managerial knowledge, experience and skills that are critical to the operation of our business and may be difficult to replace. If we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the services of one or more members of our senior management team, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. In November 2007, the Company announced that its President and Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Michael T. Vesey, had taken a leave of absence related to an existing medical condition. Mr. Vesey resumed his responsibilities as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in February 2008, though his medical condition persists. While the Company believes that Mr. Vesey's responsibilities were carried out effectively by existing management during his absence, in the event of an extended interruption of Mr. Vesey's services in the future, or in the event of an extended interruption in the services of any other member of our senior management team, no assurance can be given that the Company's senior management would be able to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the absent executive without an adverse affect on future operations. Furthermore, the market for qualified individuals is also highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace members of our senior management team if needed. Shortages of materials and increases in the price of materials can harm our business by delaying construction, increasing costs, or both. We and the homebuilding industry from time to time have experienced significant difficulties with respect to: •shortages of materials; •increases in the cost of certain materials, such as asphalt, siding, roofing, lumber, drywall and cement, which are significant components of home construction costs; and •shortages of qualified trades people and other labor. These difficulties have in the past and likely will in the future cause unexpected short-term increases in construction costs and cause construction delays for us. We will not be able to recover unexpected increases in construction costs by raising our home prices because, typically, the price of each home is established at the time a customer executes a home sale contract. Furthermore, sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our profit margins. We have historically been able to offset sustained increases in construction costs with increases in the prices of our homes and through operating efficiencies. However, the current homebuilding industry market conditions require that we reduce the prices of our homes. As a result, the effect of construction cost increases and reductions in home prices have been to significantly reduce the margins on the homes we sell. This makes it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land and construction costs, and has contributed to the significant reductions in the value of our inventory. Continued increased pricing competition may further restrict our ability to pass on any additional potential cost increases, and we may not be able to achieve sufficient operating efficiencies to maintain our current profit margins. We depend on the continued availability and satisfactory performance of our subcontractors which, if unavailable, could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to build and deliver homes. We conduct our construction operations only as a general contractor. Virtually all construction work is performed by unaffiliated third-party subcontractors. As a consequence, we depend on the continued availability of and satisfactory performance by these subcontractors for the construction of our homes. If these unaffiliated third-party subcontractors do not continue to be available and perform satisfactorily, our ability to build and deliver homes could be limited. This could lead to a reduction in our total earned revenues and earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business. 20 Our business is subject to governmental regulations that may delay, increase the cost of, prohibit or severely restrict our development and homebuilding projects and reduce our total earned revenues and growth. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal, affordable housing and use of open spaces. In addition, our subcontractors and we are subject to laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety. We also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. In some of the markets in which we operate, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy saving construction materials and give commitments to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We must also obtain permits and approvals from local authorities to complete residential development or home construction. The laws and regulations under which our subcontractors and we operate, and their and our obligations to comply with them, may result in delays in construction and development, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other increased costs, and prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in areas in which we operate. If we are unable to continue to develop communities and build and deliver homes as a result of these restrictions or if our compliance costs increase substantially, our total earned revenues and earnings may be reduced. States, cities and counties in which we operate have adopted, or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives which would reduce our ability to build and sell homes in these areas and could adversely affect our total earned revenues and earnings. Several states, cities and counties in which we operate have approved, and others in which we operate may approve, various "slow growth" or "no growth" initiatives and other ballot measures that could reduce the amount of land and building opportunities within those localities. This could lead us to sell fewer homes and reduce our earnings. Approval of slow or no growth measures would reduce our ability to acquire land and to build and sell homes in the affected markets and create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our total earned revenues and earnings. Expansion of regulation in the housing industry has increased the time required to obtain the necessary approvals to begin construction and has prolonged the time between the initial acquisition of land or land options and the commencement and completion of construction. These delays can increase our costs, decrease our profitability and increase the risks associated with the land inventories we maintain. Municipalities may restrict or place moratoriums on the availability of utilities, such as water and sewer taps. In some areas, municipalities may enact growth initiatives that would restrict the number of building permits available in a given year. If municipalities in which we operate take actions like these, it could have an adverse effect on our business by causing delays, increasing our costs or limiting our ability to build in those municipalities. This, in turn, could reduce the number of homes we sell and decrease our total earned revenues. Increases in taxes or governmental fees could increase our costs and adverse changes in tax laws could reduce customer demand for our homes, either of which could reduce our total earned revenues or profitability. Increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees, such as fees imposed on developers to fund schools, open space, road improvements or low and moderate income housing, could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, increases in local real estate taxes could adversely affect our potential customers who may consider those costs in determining whether to make a new home purchase and decide, as a result, not to purchase one of our homes. In addition, any changes in the income tax laws that would reduce or eliminate tax incentives to homeowners could make housing less affordable or otherwise reduce the demand for housing, which in turn could reduce our total earned revenues and earnings. 21 We may not be successful in our effort to identify, complete or integrate acquisitions or to enter new markets through start-up operations, which could disrupt the activities of our current business, adversely affect our results of operations and future growth or cause losses. A principal component of our business strategy is to continue to grow profitably, including, when appropriate, by acquiring other homebuilders. We may not be successful in implementing our acquisition strategy, and growth may not continue at historical levels or at all. When acquiring another company, we may have difficulty assimilating the operations of acquired businesses, incur unanticipated liabilities or expenses, and our management's attention may be diverted from our current business. The acquisition of other companies may also result in our entering markets in which we have limited or no experience. The failure to identify or complete business acquisitions, or successfully integrate the businesses we acquire, could adversely affect our results of operations and future growth. In addition, our acquisitions may not be as profitable as we anticipate or could even produce losses. Furthermore, we may choose to enter new markets or expand operations in existing markets by starting new operations, rather than by acquiring an existing homebuilding company. If we choose to expand through start-up operations, we will not have the advantage of the experience and brand recognition of an established homebuilding company. As a result, we may incur substantial start-up costs in establishing our operations in new markets, and we may not be successful in taking operations from the start-up phase to profitability. If we are not successful in making start-up operations profitable, we may not be able to recover our investment and may incur losses. Jeffrey P. Orleans, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our majority shareholder, can cause us to take certain actions or preclude use from taking actions without the approval of the other shareholders and may have interests that could conflict with other shareholders. Jeffrey P. Orleans, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as of June 30, 2008, beneficially owned approximately 60% of the voting power of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Orleans has the ability to control the outcome of virtually all corporate actions, including the election of all directors, the approval of any merger, the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings and other significant corporate actions. His interest in exercising control over our business may conflict with the interests of other shareholders. This voting power might also discourage someone from acquiring us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we need the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. Our business, total earned revenues and earnings may be adversely affected by adverse weather conditions or natural disasters. Adverse weather conditions, such as extended periods of rain, snow or cold temperatures and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and fires, can delay completion and sale of homes, damage partially complete or other unsold homes in our inventory and negatively impact the demand for homes or increase the cost of building homes. To the extent that adverse weather conditions occur for extended periods or natural disasters occur, our business and quarterly results may be adversely affected. To the extent our insurance is not adequate to cover business interruption losses or repair costs resulting from these events, our total earned revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. Acts of war or terrorism may seriously harm our business. Acts of war, any outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, including the armed conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, or acts of terrorism, may cause disruption to the economy, our company, our employees and our customers, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely impact our total earned revenues and earnings. 22 We may not be able to utilize all of our deferred tax assets. During the year ended June 30, 2008, we established a deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $53,642. Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of inventory valuation adjustments, net operating loss carryforwards, goodwill impairments, and reserves and accruals that are not currently deductible for tax purposes offset in part by capitalized interest. Some or all of these deferred tax assets could expire unused if we are unable to generate taxable income in the future sufficient to utilize them or we enter into transactions that limit our right to use them. If a material portion of our deferred tax assets expire unused, it could have a material negative impact on our financial position or results of operations, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no matters required to be reported hereunder. 