ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following describes the principal risks affecting the Company and its business. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to the Company or currently deemed material, could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations or financial condition in the future. The Company must successfully implement its new marketing and operating strategies. From 2004 through 2006, the Company implemented significant new marketing and operating strategies as follows: - During 2004, the Company began selling its Water Systems products directly to wholesale specialty Water Systems distributors, as well as original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of pumps. Previously, the Company sold its Water Systems products primarily to pump OEMs (i.e., the Company was primarily a supplier of submersible motors and controls to the OEMs) who then re-sold the Water Systems products, usually combined with pumps and related products, to the wholesale specialty Water Systems distributors. As a result of this change, the Company became a competitor, as well as a supplier to many of the pump OEMs. - Also in 2004, the Company purchased a pump manufacturer. The acquisition of certain assets of JBD, Inc. (formerly the Jacuzzi brand pump manufacturer) was completed in the fourth quarter of 2004. - During 2006, the Company acquired Little Giant Pump Company, a manufacturer of sump, sewage, effluent, condensate and industrial submersible pumps, further expanding its pump product offerings and further increasing its competition with pump OEMs. - Also in 2006, the Company announced a new general sales policy, effective January 1, 2007. The new general sales policy, effective for the Water Systems Industry in North America, will be to sell all of its products, including 2HP and smaller submersible electric motors and associated products, only on a direct basis to wholesale Water Systems distributors. Exceptions will be made only where the Company determines, on a case-by-case basis, that sales to a particular pump OEM will add significant customer value to the distribution of its products. The Company believes that these strategic changes will result in increased sales and earnings; however, actual results may vary. The Company’s acquisition strategy entails expense, integration risks, and other risks. One of the Company’s continued strategies is to increase revenues and expand market share through acquisitions that will provide complementary Water and Fueling Systems products. The Company will spend significant time and effort expanding existing businesses through identifying, pursuing, completing, and integrating acquisitions. Competition for acquisition candidates may limit the number of opportunities and may result in higher acquisition prices. There is uncertainty related to successfully acquiring and profitably managing additional companies and integrating additional companies without substantial costs, delays or other problems. There can also be no assurances that acquired companies will achieve revenues, profitability or cash flows that justify the investment in them. The Company believes that these strategic acquisitions will result in increased sales and earnings; however, actual results may vary. The Company’s sales have historically been dependent on a limited number of customers. As of the end of fiscal year 2004, approximately 42 percent of the Company’s consolidated sales were attributable to two customers, both of which were pump OEMs. With the Company’s changes in marketing and operating strategies, the Company reduced its dependency on the pump OEMs, which lowered the potential sales loss if one of these customers reduced its purchases from the Company. At the end of fiscal year 2006, these two pump OEM customers accounted for approximately 23 percent of the Company’s consolidated sales. The Company believes that the strategic initiatives announced in 2004 through 2006 will continue to reduce the potential sales risk associated with customer concentration; however, actual results may vary. - 6 - The Company faces increased competition due to industry consolidation and new entrants into the Company’s existing markets. The Company is a global leader in the production and marketing of groundwater and fuel pumping systems. The industry in which the Company operates has experienced significant consolidation in recent years, primarily in the pump OEM companies but increasingly at the distributor level, as well as the addition of submersible motor manufacturing by pump OEMs. Some of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial resources than the Company. The Company believes that consistency of product quality, timeliness of delivery, service, continued product innovation, as well as price, are the principal factors considered by customers in selecting suppliers. The Company further believes that successful implementation of the strategic initiatives, previously mentioned, will enhance its competitive position; however, actual results may vary. Competitive pressures may lead to declines in sales or in the prices of submersible electric motor products. Pump OEMs have acquired the ability to produce submersible electric motors and have purchased significant quantities of the Company submersible electric motors during 2006, possibly in excess of 2006 requirements. Their ability to produce these motors and the potential excess inventory supply of motors as of the beginning of 2007 may result in a decline in motor unit sales or motor unit prices during 2007. The Company cannot assure that these or other competitive pressures will not adversely affect profitability or performance, which could in turn have materially adverse effects on the results of operations and financial condition. A decline in housing starts could lead to reduced demand for the Company’s products, thereby reducing revenues and earnings. Demand for certain Company products is affected by housing starts. Many economic and other factors outside the Company’s control, including housing starts, could impact operating results. A decline in housing starts or general slowdown in the United States or other economies in the international markets the Company serves could reduce demand and adversely impact gross margins and operating results. Increases in the prices of raw materials, components, finished goods and other commodities could adversely affect operations. The Company purchases most of the raw materials for its products on the open market and relies on third parties for the sourcing of certain finished goods. Accordingly the cost of its products may be affected by changes in the market price of raw materials, sourced components, or finished goods. Natural gas and electricity prices have historically been volatile. The Company does not generally engage in commodity hedging for raw materials. Significant increases in the prices of commodities, sourced components, finished goods, or other commodities could cause product prices to increase, which may reduce demand for products or make the Company more susceptible to competition. Furthermore, in the event the Company is unable to pass along increases in operating costs to its customers, margins and profitability may be adversely affected. The Company is exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. The Company has significant operations outside the United States, including Europe, Mexico and China. Further, the Company obtains raw materials and finished goods from foreign suppliers. Accordingly, the Company’s business is subject to political, economic, and other risks that are inherent in operating a multinational business. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: · Difficulty in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems · Trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements · Imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions · Difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations · Compliance with foreign laws and regulations · Changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where the Company operates Business success depends in part on the ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks. The Company cannot assure that these and other factors will not have a material adverse impact on its international operations or on the business as a whole. - 7 - Delays in introducing new products or the inability to achieve or maintain market acceptance with existing or new products may cause the Company’s revenues to decrease. The industries to which the Company belongs are characterized by intense competition, changes in end-user requirements, and evolving product offerings and introductions. The Company believes future success will depend, in part, on the ability to anticipate and adapt to these factors and offer on a timely basis, products that meet customer demands. Failure to develop new and innovative products or to enhance existing products could result in the loss of existing customers to competitors or the inability to attract new business, either of which may adversely affect the Company’s revenues. The Company believes that the successful introduction of new products will enhance competitive position; however, actual results may vary. Additional Risks to the Company The Company is subject to various risks in the normal course of business. Exhibit 99.1 sets forth a list of risks, including those identified above, that may adversely affect the Company and is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 