ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following describes the principal risks affecting the Company and its business. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to the Company or currently deemed material, could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations or financial condition in the future. - 6 - - The Company’s acquisition strategy entails expense, integration risks, and other risks. One of the Company’s continuing strategies is to increase revenues and expand market share through acquisitions that will provide complementary Water and Fueling Systems products. The Company spends significant time and effort expanding existing businesses through identifying, pursuing, completing, and integrating acquisitions. Competition for acquisition candidates may limit the number of opportunities and may result in higher acquisition prices. There is uncertainty related to successfully acquiring, integrating and profitably managing additional businesses without substantial costs, delays or other problems. There can also be no assurance that acquired companies will achieve revenues, profitability or cash flows that justify the investment in them. Failure to manage or mitigate these risks could adversely affect the Company’s earnings and financial condition. The Company’s products are sold in highly competitive markets, by numerous competitors whose actions could negatively impact sales volume, pricing and profitability. The Company is a global leader in the production and marketing of groundwater and fuel pumping systems. End user demand, distribution relationships, industry consolidation, new product capabilities of the Company’s competitors or new competitors, and many other factors contribute to a highly competitive environment. Additionally, some of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial resources than the Company. Although the Company believes that consistency of product quality, timeliness of delivery, service, and continued product innovation, as well as price, are principal factors considered by customers in selecting suppliers, competitive factors described above may lead to declines in sales or in the prices of all the Company’s products which could have an adverse impact on profitability and financial condition. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by the current economic environment. The recent worldwide financial and credit market disruptions and uncertainty have reduced the availability of credit generally necessary to fund a continuation and expansion of global economic activity. The shortage of credit combined with recent substantial declines in equity markets and other economic developments could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession. A general slowdown in economic activity caused by a recession could adversely affect our business in several ways. A continuation or worsening of the current difficult financial and economic conditions could reduce sales and adversely affect our customers’ ability to meet the terms of sale and our suppliers’ ability to fully perform their commitments to us. Given this uncertainty, the Company cannot predict what additional credit may be available in the future. If additional credit is not available, it may have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to complete acquisitions, develop new products or restructure existing operations as well as other negative effects. The cost of new credit in the future may also be higher than the existing credit arrangements the Company currently has in place. In addition, the financial disruption may have an effect on the Plan assets of the Defined Benefit Plans. The amount of contributions necessary or desirable to be made to the Plan by the Company during the Company’s fiscal year 2009 is estimated at $15.7 million. A continuation of the volatility of interest rates and negative equity returns under current market conditions may result in greater contributions to the Plans in the future. A decline in housing starts could lead to reduced demand for the Company’s products, thereby reducing revenues and earnings. Demand for certain Company products is affected by housing starts. A decline in housing starts or general slowdown in the United States or other economies in the international markets the Company serves, such as those presently occurring in the United States and many other markets, could reduce demand and adversely impact gross margins and operating results. Increases in the prices of raw materials, components, finished goods and other commodities could adversely affect operations. The Company purchases most of the raw materials for its products on the open market and relies on third parties for the sourcing of certain finished goods. Accordingly, the cost of its products may be affected by changes in the market price of raw materials, sourced components, or finished goods. Natural gas and electricity prices have historically been volatile. The Company does not generally engage in commodity hedging for raw materials. Significant increases in the prices of commodities, sourced components, finished goods, or other commodities could cause product prices to increase, which may reduce demand for products or make the Company more susceptible to competition. Furthermore, in the event the Company is unable to pass along increases in operating costs to its customers, margins and profitability may be adversely affected. - 7 - - The Company is exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. The Company has significant operations outside the United States, including Europe, South Africa, Brazil, Mexico and China. Further, the Company obtains raw materials and finished goods from foreign suppliers. Accordingly, the Company’s business is subject to political, economic, and other risks that are inherent in operating a multinational business. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: · Difficulty in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems · Trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements · Imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions · Difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations · Compliance with foreign laws and regulations · Changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where the Company operates Additionally, the Company’s operations outside the United States could be negatively impacted by changes in treaties, agreements, policies and laws implemented by the United States. If the Company does not anticipate and effectively manage these risks, these factors may have a material adverse impact on its international operations or on the business as a whole. Transferring operations of the Company to low cost regions may not result in the intended cost benefits. The Company is continuing its rationalization of manufacturing capacity between all existing manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing complexes in low cost regions such as Mexico, the Czech Republic and China. To implement this strategy, the Company must complete the transfer of assets and intellectual property between operations. Each of these transfers involves the risk of disruption to our manufacturing capability, supply chain and, ultimately, to our ability to service customers and generate revenues and profits. The Company has significant investments in foreign entities and has significant sales and purchases in foreign denominated currencies creating exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company has significant investments outside the United States, including Europe, South Africa, Brazil, Mexico and China. Further, the Company has sales and makes purchases of raw materials and finished goods in foreign denominated currencies. Accordingly, the Company has exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the US dollar. Foreign currency exchange rate risk is reduced through several means: maintenance of local production facilities in the markets served, invoicing of customers in the same currency as the source of the products, prompt settlement of inter-company balances utilizing a global netting system and limited use of foreign currency denominated debt. To the extent that these mitigating strategies are not successful, foreign currency rate fluctuations can have a material adverse impact on its international operations or on the business as a whole. Delays in introducing new products or the inability to achieve or maintain market acceptance with existing or new products may cause the Company’s revenues to decrease. The industries to which the Company belongs are characterized by intense competition, changes in end-user requirements, and evolving product offerings and introductions. The Company believes future success will depend, in part, on the ability to anticipate and adapt to these factors and offer, on a timely basis, products that meet customer demands. Failure to develop new and innovative products or to enhance existing products could result in the loss of existing customers to competitors or the inability to attract new business, either of which may adversely affect the Company’s revenues. - 8 - - Certain Company products are subject to regulation and government performance requirements in addition to the warranties provided by the Company. The Company’s product lines have expanded significantly and certain products are subject to government regulations and standards for manufacture, assembly, and performance in addition to the warranties provided by the Company. The Company’s failure to meet all such standards or perform in accordance with warranties could result in significant warranty or repair costs, lost sales and profits, damage to the Company’s reputation, and fines or penalties from Governmental organizations. Changes to these standards may require the Company to modify its business objectives and incur additional costs to comply. The growth of municipal water systems and increased government restrictions on groundwater pumping could reduce demand for private water wells and the Company’s products, thereby reducing revenues and earnings. Demand for certain Company products is affected by rural communities shifting from private and individual water well systems to city or municipal water systems. Many economic and other factors outside the Company’s control, including Federal and State regulations on water quality, tax credits and incentives, could impact the demand for private and individual water wells. A decline in private and individual water well systems in the United States or other economies in the international markets the Company serves could reduce demand for the Company’s products and adversely impact sales, gross margins and operating results. Demand for Fueling Systems products is impacted by environmental legislation which may cause significant increases in product demand and may be followed by significantly reduced demand after meeting compliance requirements. Environmental legislation related to air quality and fueling containment may create demand for certain Fueling Systems products which must be supplied in a relatively short time frame to meet the governmental mandate, as is currently occurring in California with respect to vapor control and monitoring systems. During this period of increased demand the Company’s revenues and profitability could increase significantly. The Company is at risk of not having capacity to meet demand or cost overruns due to inefficiencies during ramp up to the higher production levels. After the Company’s customers have met the compliance requirements, the Company’s revenues and profitability may decrease significantly as the demand for certain products declines substantially. The Company is at risk of not reducing production costs in relation to the decreased demand as well as reduced revenues adversely impacting gross margins and operating results. Additional Risks to the Company The Company is subject to various risks in the normal course of business. Exhibit 99.1 sets forth risks and other factors that may affect future results, including those identified above, and is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 