ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following describes the principle risks affecting the Company and its business. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to the Company or currently deemed material, could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations or financial condition in the future. The Company must successfully implement its new marketing and operating strategies. The Company announced in the third quarter of 2004 that its Water Systems products would be sold directly to specialty water systems distributors. Prior to the announcement, the Company sold its Water Systems products primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of pumps (i.e., the Company was primarily a supplier of submersible motors and controls to the OEMs) who then re-sold the Water Systems products, usually combined with pumps and related products, to the specialty water systems distributors. The Company also announced in the third quarter of 2004 the purchase of a pump manufacturer. The acquisition of certain assets of JBD, Inc. (formerly the Jacuzzi brand pump manufacturer) was completed in the fourth quarter of 2004. With the announcements of these two changes in our marketing and operating strategies, the Company became a competitor to many of the pump OEMs, as well as a supplier. The Company believes that these strategic changes will result in increased sales and earnings; however, actual results may vary. The Company’s sales have historically been dependent on a limited number of customers. As of the end of fiscal year 2004, approximately 40 percent of the Company’s consolidated sales were attributable to two customers, both of which were pump OEMs. With the announcements of the Company’s changes in marketing and operating strategies discussed above, the Company reduced its dependency on the pump OEMs, which lowered the potential sales loss if one of these customers reduced its purchases from the Company. At the end of fiscal year 2005, these two pump OEM customers accounted for approximately 28 percent of the Company’s consolidated sales. The Company believes that the strategic initiatives announced in 2004 will continue to reduce the potential sales risk; however, actual results may vary. The Company has increased competition due to industry consolidation and new entrants into the Company’s existing markets. The Company is a global leader in the production and marketing of groundwater and fuel pumping systems. The industry in which the Company operates has experienced significant consolidation in recent years, primarily in the pump OEM companies, and has realized new entrants. Some of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial resources than the Company. The Company believes that consistency of product quality, timeliness of delivery, service, continued product innovation, as well as price, are the principal factors considered by customers in selecting suppliers. The Company further believes that successful implementation of the strategic initiatives (discussed above) and execution of the principal factors will enhance the Company’s competitive position; however, actual results may vary. Additional Risks to the Company The Company is subject to various risks occurring in the normal course of business. Exhibit 99.1 sets forth a list of risks, including those identified above, that may adversely affect the Company and is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 6 - ITEM 