Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and current results reported herein are not guarantees of future performance or results and there can be no assurance that actual developments and economic performance will be as anticipated by us. Actual developments and/or results may differ significantly and adversely from expected results as a result of significant risks, uncertainties and factors. These listed risk factors are not intended to be exhaustive and the order in which the risk appear is not intended as an indication of their relative weight or importance. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report or elsewhere. A. BUSINESS RISKS Business risks are risks associated with general business conditions, the economy, and the operations of Signature. Business risks are not risks associated with specific transactions we may be involved in nor are they risks associated with an offering of, or investment in, our common stock. The business risks associated with the business conducted by Fremont until the Effective Date is not presented herein because Signature is not engaged in those businesses. Signature’s financial condition and results of operations will depend on its ability to manage and deploy capital effectively. Our ability to achieve our business and strategic objectives will depend on our ability to effectively manage and deploy our capital, which will depend, in turn, on SCA, as our management company, to identify, evaluate, structure and negotiate transactions, and monitor companies that are consistent with our strategy and business objectives. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our business and strategic objectives. Accomplishing our business objectives on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of SCA’s handling of its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services, its access to transactions offering acceptable terms, and its ability to consummate those transactions. In addition to monitoring the performance of our assets, members of SCA’s management team and its professionals may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our subsidiary companies in which we hold debt, equity interests or otherwise operate businesses that we acquire through our business lines. These additional demands on the SCA management team may distract management from focusing on our other company assets or operations and slow the rate of our capital deployment. The results of our operations will depend on many factors, including the availability of opportunities, accessible funding alternatives, and economic conditions. There is no assurance that one or all of these factors will be favorable to us or our business in order to deploy our capital effectively. In addition, changes in the business practices of commercial and investment banks, public and private funds, commercial finance companies, private equity funds, hedge funds, high net worth individuals and governmental agencies in terms of providing debt and equity financing in the middle market or selling loan portfolios and other financial assets may negatively impact our ability to source attractive opportunities to deploy capital. If we cannot successfully operate our business or implement our strategies as described in this Annual Report, it could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to grow and build our operations, any failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Signature’s business model depends to a significant extent upon its manager’s referral relationships, and its ability to maintain or develop these relationships in the future. We expect that the management team and members of Signature’s manager, SCA, will maintain their relationships with financial institutions, private equity and other non-bank investors, investment bankers, commercial bankers, attorneys, accountants and consultants, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential opportunities in which to provide capital. If the management team and members of our manager fail to maintain their existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of transaction opportunities, we will not be able to achieve our business and strategic objectives. In addition, individuals or firms with whom the management team and members of our manager have relationships are not obligated to provide us with transaction opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate business opportunities for us. 13 Table of Contents Signature has a new management team, Board of Directors and business strategy with limited operating history. Signature emerged from bankruptcy proceedings in June 2010 with a new management team and Board of Directors, as well as a new business plan and strategy. As a result, Signature is subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our business objectives. Additionally, prior to the Effective Date, certain members of Signature’s management team had not worked together. While the members of Signature’s management team have similar professional backgrounds and investment philosophies, there are no assurances that we will have a consensus on every business decision or a common philosophy. Finally, the members of our Board of Directors have not worked together in the past, which we believe to be valuable on one hand, as it provides a broader perspective for the business strategy and initiatives we may be required to evaluate, but this limited history also represents a potential risk in that the Board of Directors may not come to consensus on every business decision or may require additional time to deliberate among potential options for any particular matter, which could result in possible lost business opportunities. In addition, we may have future turnover in the members of our Board of Directors as we have experienced in 2011. Signature depends on key personnel of SCA to achieve its business and strategic objectives. We depend on the members of the senior management team of our management company, SCA, particularly Craig Noell, Kenneth Grossman, Kyle Ross, Thomas Donatelli, and David Collett to function as Signature’s management team and to execute our business plan and strategy and to manage our business and day-to-day operations, including identifying, structuring, closing and monitoring the deployment of our capital. These members of the senior management team of SCA have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely upon to implement our business plan. If we lose the services of one or more of these individuals or the services of SCA, we may not be able to operate our business or identify and manage our business as we planned, and our ability to compete could be harmed, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Signature’s Interim Management Agreement with SCA is not a long term arrangement and the economic terms are likely to change in the future. Pursuant to the Interim Management Agreement, Signature contracted with SCA to provide general business management for its operations through December 31, 2010 with annual renewals if a revised Management Agreement had not yet been entered into between the parties. The Agreement has been renewed by the Board of Directors through December 31, 2011, unless sooner terminated in accordance with its terms. The Interim Management Agreement has certain beneficial terms for Signature; in particular, a pass-through-of-expenses management fee structure and a salary limitation on the SCA Executives. If we enter into a more permanent management agreement or an alternative compensation arrangement with our executives, we expect it will have a substantially different economic structure, which would likely include compensation structures that may result in increased cost to Signature. Signature is subject to considerable pending legal proceedings which relate to the prior businesses of Fremont and/or FIL. We are subject to a number of lawsuits seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief which relate to Fremont and/or FIL’s business. For a summary of our material legal proceedings, see “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this Annual Report. Additional litigation may be filed against us or disputes may arise in the future concerning matters involving the prior business of Fremont and/or FIL’s business or the business which Signature is now beginning to engage. We have been and intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves in all legal proceedings we are involved in, including the lawsuits described in Item 3, however, the outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain and could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Signature has received repurchase claims relating to certain residential mortgage loan originations sold by FIL and may receive additional claims in the future that, unless withdrawn or settled within the limits of a reserve we have established, could harm our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, Signature had approximately $100.0 million in outstanding repurchase claims associated with the representations and warranties related to the residential real estate mortgages sold by FIL. Signature maintains a loan repurchase reserve for the estimated losses associated with such loan repurchase demand claims, both known and unknown. While management believes that Signature’s $8.9 million loan repurchase reserve liability was sufficient as of December 31, 2010, no assurance can be made that changing facts and circumstances could not cause us to increase such repurchase reserve in future periods or for the Company to experience losses in excess of its repurchase reserve liability. Any material increase in repurchase claim activity, our repurchase reserve or changes in the nature of repurchase claims or changes in our ability to object to, defend, or settle such claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Adverse changes in the residential mortgage markets or the regulatory environment governing such markets may affect the value of Signature’s residential mortgage loans held for sale or its ability to sell such assets for acceptable prices. As of December 31, 2010, Signature held $106.6 million of unpaid principal balance (“UPB”) of residential mortgage loans which were classified as held for sale and carried at a value of $38.9 million, or 36.5% of UPB. The value of residential mortgage loans held for sale depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, interest rates, the value of the underlying collateral and legislative and regulatory actions. Adverse changes in the residential mortgage markets, such as those experienced since mid 2007, or legislative and regulatory actions may affect our ability to collect payments from borrowers, foreclose on the underlying collateral, or sell the remaining residential mortgage loans held for sale for acceptable prices. These adverse changes in the residential mortgage markets may have a material adverse effect upon the value of our residential mortgage loans, our financial condition and results of operations. Signature did not pay approximately $17.2 million in claims filed with the Bankruptcy Court on the Effective Date, which it must resolve before a final decree will be issued. On the Effective Date, Signature did not pay approximately $17.2 million in claims as the claims and/or amounts were in dispute. Subsequent to the Effective Date, Signature resolved $2.9 million in claims related to voluntary withdrawal and paid approximately $3.0 million to certain other claimholders during the third quarter of 2010. As for the remaining claims which Signature does not believe it is liable for, Signature is actively seeking their voluntary withdrawal, plans to object to them in the Bankruptcy Court, or plans to continue to litigate them in the appropriate venues. If Signature is unsuccessful in such objections, such litigation, or is unable to negotiate substantially reduced settlements with the claimholders of the remaining claims, and Signature is obligated to pay these amounts, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Signature’s $24.8 million tax refund related to its 2008 carryback NOL is subject to review of the Joint Committee. Following completion of the IRS examination of Fremont’s consolidated tax returns, the Company received a tax refund in the amount of $24.4 million, net of other potential tax liabilities of $0.4 million, related to the carryback 2008 NOL applicable to prior taxable year periods 2003, 2004 and 2005. In February 2011, the IRS notified the Company that the tax refund was subject to review by the Joint Committee, and a request was made for certain information from the Company in connection with its review of the tax refund. Although the Company does not have any reason to believe that the Joint Committee will not approve the full amount of the tax refund, there is no assurance that such approval will given by the Joint Committee and an adverse finding could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Signature’s inability to control its expenses may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Since emerging from bankruptcy, Signature’s sources of revenue have been limited. We continue to have significant operating and non-interest expenses, including compensation and related expense, legal, professional and other outside services, occupancy expense, interest expense, and information technology expense. We also expect that we may have increased expense if we enter into a more permanent management agreement with SCA or an alternative compensation structure with our executives. Although we have significantly reduced our expenses, our inability to further reduce our operating and non-interest expenses may have an adverse affect our financial condition and results of operations. Signature’s ability to utilize its NOLs or recognize tax benefits on future domestic U.S. Tax losses may be limited. Signature’s ability to fully utilize its existing federal and state NOLs could be limited or eliminated should Signature (i) undergo an “ownership change” as described under Section 382 of the Tax Code; (ii) be found by the IRS not to be able to avail itself of Section 382(l)(5) of the Tax Code; or (iii) not return to profitability or be only marginally profitable. Although no assurances can be given that the IRS agrees with our position, as of the Effective Date, we believe the Company met the criteria under Section 382(l)(5) of the Tax Code to be able to utilize the NOLs to offset future income generated by the Company, if any. Such usage, however, is predicated upon the Company not experiencing a future “ownership change.” An ownership change is generally defined as greater than 50% change in equity ownership by value over a three-year period. We may experience an “ownership change” in the future as a result of changes in our stock ownership, which would result in a limitation on our ability to utilize our NOLs. Furthermore, since we are relying on Section 382(l)(5) of the Tax Code, if we were to experience an ownership change during a two year period beginning on the Effective Date, we would lose our entire ability to utilize the NOLs. In addition, any changes to tax rules or the interpretation of tax rules could negatively impact our ability to recognize benefits from our NOLs. As of the Effective Date, we have amended our Amended and Restated Bylaws to provide for restriction on certain transfers of Signature common stock in order to preserve our NOLs. Unless approved by the Board, any attempted transfer of Signature common stock is prohibited and void to the extent that, as a result of such transfer (or any series of transfers) (i) any person or group of persons shall become a “five-percent holder” of Signature (as defined in the Treasury Regulations) or (ii) the ownership interests of any five-percent shareholder shall be increased or decreased. Persons wishing to become a 5% shareholder (or existing 5% shareholders wishing to increase or decrease their percentage share ownership) may request a waiver of the restriction from Signature, and the Board of Directors may grant a waiver in its discretion. On October 23, 2007, Fremont and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as rights agent, entered into a Rights Agreement (the “Rights Agreement”), which also operates to preserve our NOLs. The Rights Agreement provides for a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right (a “Right”) for each outstanding share of Company common stock. So long as the Rights Agreement is effective and the Rights are attached to the Company common stock, one additional Right, as such number may be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of the Rights Agreement, shall be deemed to be delivered for each share of Company common stock issued or transferred by the Company in the future. Subject to the exceptions and limitations contained in the Rights Agreement, the Rights generally are exercisable only if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of the Company’s common stock or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation of which such person or group would beneficially own 5% or more of the Company’s common stock, and the Company’s Board of Directors affirmatively determines a Distribution Date (as defined in the Rights Agreement) shall occur. 15 Table of Contents Finally, our NOLs only have value to the extent we generate profits. If we are unable to generate profits prior to the expiration of the NOLs, or if we are only marginally profitable during such period, we will be limited in our ability to utilize the tax benefits related to our NOLs. Signature’s use of its NOLs in the future may be challenged by the IRS under anti-abuse rules associated with tax avoidance. While Signature believes it is eligible to utilize the full amount of the NOLs under Section 382(l)(5), the IRS can at anytime challenge the use of NOLs in the future under an argument that a transaction or transactions were concluded with the substantial intent of sheltering future tax liabilities. In any situation where the IRS is successful in such a challenge, Signature’s ability to utilize its NOLs may be limited, which may have a material adverse impact on Signature’s financial condition and results of operations. Signature’s intention to not become an investment company subject the Investment Company Act of 1940 as amended may impose constraints on our operations. We intend to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which we refer to as the Investment Company Act. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines as an investment company any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40.0% of the value of the issuer's total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Excluded from the term "investment securities" are, among other things, securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. We may be compelled to take or refrain from taking actions, to acquire additional income or loss generating assets or to forego opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us in order to ensure that we (or one of our subsidiaries) may continue to rely on the applicable exceptions or exemptions under the Investment Company Act. These limitations on our freedom of action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an exemption, exception or other exclusion from registration as an investment company, we could, among other things, be required to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations either to avoid being required to register as an investment company or to register as an investment company. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to, among other things, our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in our failure to accurately and timely report our financial results. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Our management has concluded that as of December 31, 2010, we did not maintain an effective overall control environment, which is the foundation for effective internal control over financial reporting. As a result of the sale of substantially all of Fremont’s business operations from 2007 to 2008 and the significant reduction in certain other business operations as a result of the bankruptcy proceedings, Fremont experienced considerable turnover of staffing within its accounting operations. Additionally, during the period in which Fremont was in bankruptcy proceedings with limited resources, the Company did not maintain a sufficient number of financial and accounting staff personnel with the appropriate level of accounting knowledge and experience in order to timely provide accurate and reliable financial statements that were prepared and reviewed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. See “Controls and Procedures—Changes In Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” in Item 9A of this Annual Report for further information about the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and the effect of this material weakness, including the impact on our accounting functions and policies, as well as our financial reporting. 16 Table of Contents While we have taken efforts to improve the number and expertise of staff in our accounting and finance function since emerging from bankruptcy proceedings on the Effective Date, if we fail to further enhance these functions or otherwise fail to identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, remediate any deficiencies, or identify material weaknesses in the future, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately and on a timely basis. Additional material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal controls may be discovered in the future. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting also could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the market value of our equity securities. Even if we are able to report our financial statements accurately and timely, if we do not make all the necessary improvements to address the material weakness, continued disclosure of our material weakness will be required in future filings with the Commission. In addition, our new business strategy contemplates the acquisition of businesses and the operation of subsidiaries whose financial results will be consolidated into our financial statements and reporting. As a result of these business activities and our future growth, the scope of our internal control over financial reporting will have to expand, which may subject us to increased internal control risks. These subsidiaries and their operations will need to be managed with effective internal control over financial reporting in order for us to produce accurate and timely financial reports. Failure to do so would result in our inability to report our financial results accurately and on a timely basis, which would likely have a negative effect on the market value of our equity securities. Changes in, and compliance with, laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause it to alter our business strategy. We and the companies in which we provide capital to or acquire will be subject to regulation at the local, state and federal level. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, any of which could harm us and our shareholders, potentially with retroactive effect. In particular, any changes in domestic and foreign government regulations that affect our ability to collect amounts on our residential real estate loan portfolio assets, or increased costs to service and monitor such assets, or changes to bankruptcy or collection laws could negatively impact our operating results. Additionally, any changes to the laws and regulations may cause us to alter our business strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this Annual Report and may result in our business focus shifting from the areas of expertise of our management team to other types of opportunities in which our management team may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our inability to comply with the federal, state and local statutes and regulations in the business segments, geographic regions and jurisdictions in which we operate could harm us and our shareholders. Signature’s results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. The results of operations are and will be affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in national or local economies. Signature’s success will depend on SCA’s ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in a competitive environment. Signature expects SCA will experience competition in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly investment professionals, and Signature may be unable to maintain or grow its business if SCA cannot attract and retain such personnel. SCA’s ability to attract and retain personnel with the requisite credentials, experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, SCA’s ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. Many of the entities, including investment funds (such as private equity funds and mezzanine funds) and traditional financial services companies, with which SCA competes for experienced personnel have greater resources than it has. The competitive environment for qualified personnel may require Signature and SCA to take certain measures to ensure that SCA is able to attract and retain experienced personnel. Such measures may include increasing the attractiveness of the overall compensation packages, altering the structure of compensation packages through the use of additional forms of compensation, or other steps. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 Table of Contents Signature operates in a highly competitive market for the transactions it seeks to engage in. A large number of entities compete to source, structure and effectuate the types of transactions that we plan to be involved with in companies operating in the middle market. We compete for opportunities with traditional financial services companies such as commercial and investment banks, business development companies, investment funds (including private equity funds and mezzanine funds) and other sources of funding. Moreover, alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, also provide capital to lower middle market companies. As a result, competition for opportunities in middle market companies is intense. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. Furthermore, as Signature is a new market participant in such business lines, we believe most of our competitors have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to Signature. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of opportunities, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we are able to do. We may lose out on transactions if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. Or, if we are forced to match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our capital or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. Notwithstanding the competitive nature of our business, we believe the market opportunity of providing capital in middle market companies is still underserved, but a significant increase in the number and/or the size of capital providers or other competitors in this target market could force us to accept less attractive terms. Signature’s results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies, including changes in the accounting regulations to be applied. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. Additionally, when we acquire businesses or engage in other transactions as outlined in our business strategy, we will utilize various methods, estimates, and judgments to account for such transactions. Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Likewise, our results of operations may be impacted due to changes in the accounting rules to be applied, such as the increased use of fair value measurement rules, estimate liabilities for repurchase and litigation reserves, and the potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. B. RISKS RELATED TO OUR TRANSACTIONS Strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, or Signature’s entry into new business areas, may result in additional risks and uncertainties in its business. Signature expects to grow its business through internal expansion of commercial lending operations as well through strategic acquisitions or joint ventures. When we make strategic acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, we expect to face numerous risks and uncertainties in combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems including, potentially, the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers and business partners. Our participation in any other ventures that we may enter into may subject us to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject us to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. Conflicts or disagreements between us and the other members of a venture may negatively impact our businesses. Finally, expansions, acquisitions or joint ventures may require significant managerial attention which may be diverted from our other operations. These capital, equity and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses and as a result negatively impact our financial condition and/or operating results. Providing capital to middle market companies involves a high degree of risk. Companies operating in the middle market, which we generally describe as those with revenues between $25 million and $500 million, generally have (i) less access to capital to fund their business, (ii) high dependence on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons, (iii) narrower product lines, smaller market shares, or/or larger customer relationships, and (iv) less publicly available information about their business, operations and financial condition compared to larger companies. These companies would also generally be considered to have ratings that are below investment grade. We are dependent on the ability of SCA’s management team and professional staff to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from providing capital to these companies and to manage our assets accordingly in light of such risks. If they are unable to uncover all material information about these middle market companies that we may transact with, they may not make a fully informed decision, and we may lose all or part of the capital we provide, or be subject to the impact of operating losses associated with such businesses. The lack of liquidity for the types of transactions we are pursuing may adversely affect our business. We plan to provide capital to companies whose securities are not publicly traded, and whose securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. Given these circumstances, while we do not expect to be able to achieve liquidity in our portfolio over a short-term period, the illiquidity of these capital infusions may make it difficult for us to get our capital back when projected or desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our assets quickly, we may realize significantly less than the values shown on our financial statements, which would cause us to suffer losses and potentially adversely affect our business. 18 Table of Contents Until we are able to diversify our asset base, we will face concentration risk whereby a loss on one or more of our transactions could have a materially adverse effect on our company. Since the Effective Date, we have provided capital in a limited number of situations in furtherance of our business strategy. Until we have increased the amount of capital deployed in our new business strategy to create a diversified portfolio, a loss on one or more situations would affect us more adversely than such loss would affect a company with a larger and more diverse portfolio. The companies we provide capital to may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the capital we provide to such companies. The companies we provide capital to may have, or may be permitted to incur, debt or other capital that ranks equally with, or senior to, the capital we provide them. By their terms, such securities may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest, principal, dividends or other forms of capital on or before the dates on which we would be entitled to receive payments with respect to the capital we may provide. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a company we have provided capital to, holders of securities senior to our capital in such company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such senior capital, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of other capital ranking equally with the capital we may provide, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other similarly situated capital providers in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. Businesses, specialized assets, or loan assets acquired by us may not perform as expected and we may not be able to achieve adequate consideration for dispositions. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of other companies, specialized assets, or loan assets. Such acquisitions may involve numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating the operations, services, products and personnel of the acquired company or specialized asset; the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; entering markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; or the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. Acquired businesses, specialized assets and loan assets may have credit related risks arising from substantially different underwriting standards associated with those businesses or assets. Furthermore, these acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of additional debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we may from time to time decide to sell companies or assets. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing these transactions. If these transactions are completed, they may reduce the size of our business. There is also no assurance that we will receive adequate consideration for any company or asset dispositions. As a result, our future disposition of businesses or assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and result of operations. There may be circumstances where our debt capital could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though we may have structured certain of the capital we provide as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances and based upon principles of equitable subordination as defined by existing case law, a bankruptcy court could subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors and transfer any lien securing such subordinated claim to the bankruptcy estate. The principles of equitable subordination defined by case law have generally indicated that a claim may be subordinated only if its holder is guilty of misconduct or where the senior loan is re-characterized as an equity investment and the senior lender has actually provided significant managerial assistance to the bankrupt debtor. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance or actions to compel and collect payments from the borrower outside the ordinary course of business. Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that we make to companies generally will be subject to the actions of, and potentially control of, senior creditors with first priority liens whereby the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us. Certain loans that we may make will be secured by a second priority security interest in the same collateral pledged by a company to secure senior debt owed by a company to commercial banks or other traditional lenders. Often the senior lender has procured covenants from the company prohibiting the incurrence of additional secured debt without the senior lender’s consent. Prior to and as a condition of permitting the portfolio company to borrow money from us secured by the same collateral pledged to the senior lender, the senior lender will require assurances that it will control the disposition of any collateral in the event of bankruptcy or other default. In many such cases, the senior lender will require us to enter into an “intercreditor agreement” prior to permitting the portfolio company to borrow from us. Typically the intercreditor agreements we are requested to execute expressly subordinate our debt instruments to those held by the senior lender and further provide that the senior lender shall control: (1) the commencement of foreclosure or other proceedings to liquidate and collect on the collateral; (2) the nature, timing and conduct of foreclosure or other collection proceedings; (3) the amendment of any collateral document; (4) the release of the security interests in respect of any collateral; and (5) the waiver of defaults under any security agreement. Because of the control we may cede to senior lenders under intercreditor agreements we may enter, we may be unable to realize the proceeds of any collateral securing some of our loans. 19 Table of Contents The value of the collateral securing our loan and debt instruments depends on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of the collateral securing our loan and debt instruments will be sufficient to satisfy the obligations of our borrowers. There is also a risk that such collateral securing our debt may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the borrower and market conditions. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under our loan obligations, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the Company’s remaining assets, if any, which may result in the incurrence of losses. We generally will not control the companies obligated to repay our loans and other debt instruments. We do not expect to control the companies obligated to repay the loans we may make or purchase, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a company in which we provide capital may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt holders. Due to the lack of liquidity associated with capital provided to non publicly-traded companies, we may not be able to dispose of our loans in such companies as readily as we would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, a borrower may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. We may not realize gains from equity securities associated with the loans we provide or the business acquisitions we make. Certain loans that we make or purchase may include warrants or other equity securities and the businesses we acquire will result in Signature obtaining significant equity interests. Equity interests involve a number of significant risks, including the risk of further dilution as a result of additional issuances, inability to access additional capital and failure to pay current distributions. Investments in preferred securities involve special risks, such as the risk of deferred distributions, credit risk, illiquidity and limited voting rights. In addition, we may from time to time make non-control, equity co-investments in companies in conjunction with other investors. Our goal is ultimately to realize gains upon our disposition of such equity interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a company we provide capital to does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. We expect to seek puts or similar rights to give us the right to sell our equity interests back to the issuer, but we may be unable to exercise these puts rights for the consideration provided or our estimates if the issuer is in financial distress. Signature may issue shares of common stock as consideration in its acquisition and joint venture transactions, which would result in dilution of our shareholders. In addition to other forms of consideration, we may issue shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions or joint venture transactions that we may enter into. The issuance of shares of our common stock in such transactions may result in dilute our then existing shareholders following any such issuance. C. RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK Investors will not have access to current business, financial and operating information about Signature in order to make an informed investment decision in Signature common stock until all of our prior periodic reports have been filed with the Commission. We have not filed with the Commission our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. We expect to file this Form 10-Q with the Commission during the third quarter of 2011. Until the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 is filed with the Commission, investors will not have the most recent business, financial and operating information about our company, which will make it difficult for investors to make an informed investment decision to purchase or sell our securities. Signature does not expect to be able to access the public U.S. capital markets until all of its periodic reporting with the Commission is up to date. Signature will be unable to register any new common stock with the Commission to access the U.S. public securities markets until it has filed its prior periodic reports and financial statements with the Commission. This precludes Signature from raising debt or equity financing in registered transactions in the U.S. public capital markets to support growth in its business plan. 20 Table of Contents Our common stock is quoted on the OTC “pink sheets” market which does not provide investors with a meaningful degree of liquidity. Bid quotations for our common stock are available on the OTC “pink sheets,” an electronic quotation service for securities traded over-the-counter. Bid quotations on the pink sheets can be sporadic and the pink sheets do not provide any meaningful liquidity to investors. An investor may find it difficult to dispose of shares or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the common stock. There can be no assurance that our plans to seek listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Stock Market, the NYSE or another securities exchange once we become current in our filing obligations with the Commission will be successful or that we will be able to satisfy the listing standards of an exchange when we do, and, we cannot provide any assurance as to when we will have filed all of our past periodic reports with the Commission. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: · changes in earnings or variations in operating results; · changes in the value of our portfolio of assets; · any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; · changes in accounting principles or changes in interpretations of existing principles, which could affect our financial results; · changes in legislation or regulatory policies, practices, or actions; · the commencement or outcome of material litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; · changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; · actual or expected sales of our common stock by our shareholders; · departure of our management adviser’s key personnel; and · general economic trends and other external factors. Certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions to protect the value of our NOLs. See “Tax Attribute Preservation Provision” in Item 5 of this Annual Report. Such provisions may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us, which may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock. Our Rights Agreement could discourage, delay or prevent takeover attempts. Attempts to acquire control of the Company may be discouraged, delayed or prevented by the Rights Agreement, which was adopted by Fremont on October 23, 2007 and continues to remain in effect. The Rights Agreement provides for a dividend distribution of a Right for each outstanding share of Company common stock. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company a Unit of Preferred Stock at a price of $12.00 per one one-thousandth of a share, subject to adjustment as provided in the Rights Agreement. Subject to the exceptions and limitations contained in the Rights Agreement, the Rights generally are exercisable if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of the Company’s common stock or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation of which such person or group would beneficially own 5% or more of the Company’s common stock, provided the Company’s Board of Directors affirmatively determines a Distribution Date (as defined in the Rights Agreement) shall occur. In addition the Rights Agreement also provides that, in the event that (i) the Company engages in a merger or other business combination transaction in which the Company is not the surviving corporation, (ii) the Company engages in a merger or other business combination transaction in which the Company is the surviving corporation and the Company’s common stock is changed or exchanged, or (iii) 50% or more of the Company’s assets, cash flow or earning power is sold or transferred, each holder of a Right (except Rights which have previously been voided because they were held by the acquiring person or entity) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company as set forth in the Rights Agreement. The existence of the Rights Agreement may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from effecting a change of control or takeover of our company that our management and board of directors oppose. Our pending legal proceedings and other contingent liabilities may limit our ability to use our common stock as currency in potential future transactions. We are subject to a number of lawsuits seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief and have potential other contingent liabilities, including repurchase claims, which relate to the prior businesses and operations of Fremont and FIL. See Item 3 of this Annual Report for more information. The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, which may limit our ability to utilize our common stock as consideration for potential future acquisition and other transactions in which we may engage. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 