Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face and the order in which the risks appear is not intended as an indication of their relative weight or importance. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. A. Business Risks Signature’s financial condition and results of operations will depend on its ability to acquire and integrate businesses that perform and meet expectations after closing. A key element of our business strategy involves the acquisition and integration of profitable operating businesses. We may experience challenges identifying, 8 Table of Contents financing, consummating and integrating such acquisitions. While we have reviewed various acquisition opportunities, competition exists in the market for profitable operating companies, and we were not able to complete any acquisitions during the last fiscal year. We may not be able to find other suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, as the current price of our common stock may make it more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions, and suitable financing arrangements may not be available on acceptable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. Even if we are successful in completing additional acquisitions, acquisitions often require significant capital infusions, could result in unanticipated costs and expenses, and may divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business. We may also encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies and retaining key personnel. Acquisitions could disrupt our relationships with our existing customers, suppliers and strategic partners and may create other contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. The acquisition of another company or business may also require us to enter into a business or geographic market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our operating costs. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, acquisitions can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. We may also incur significant goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these events could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any future acquisitions or that we will realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions. Even if we are able to grow and build our operations, any failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operations may not perform as expected. Based on any number of factors, we may from time to time decide to sell companies or assets. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing these transactions. If these transactions are completed, they may reduce the size of our business. There is also no assurance that we will receive adequate consideration for any company or asset dispositions. As a result, our future disposition of businesses or assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and result of operations. We may need to raise additional capital to fund future opportunities or repay our indebtedness, which funding may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We currently have a limited capital base and have generated net losses of $7.5 million and $12.8 million in the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We have experienced volatility in our cash flows from operations ranging from positive cash flows from operations of $2.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2012, to negative cash flows from operations of $15.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2011. In order to make future acquisitions of businesses or assets, acquire debt instruments, or fund new loans, we may need to raise capital through debt or equity financing at the Company level, sell the stock or assets of our subsidiary businesses, offer debt or equity to the sellers of target businesses, or by undertaking a combination of any of the above. To avoid limiting the use of our NOLs, we may choose to fund some or all of those acquisitions with new debt or existing cash. In addition, acquisitions may also require us to make significant capital infusions into the acquired companies. Since the timing and size of prospective transactions cannot be readily predicted, we may need to be able to obtain funding on short notice to fully benefit from attractive opportunities. Such funding may not be available on acceptable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, the level of our indebtedness may impact our ability to borrow further at the Company level. Another source of capital for us may be the sale of equity securities or convertible debt securities, which securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our existing shareholders and could result in 9 Table of Contents further dilution to our shareholders. Our ability to raise equity capital in this manner is also subject to market conditions and investor demand for the shares at prices that we consider to be in the interests of our shareholders. These challenges may materially adversely affect our ability to pursue our business strategy successfully and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our operations as planned, pursue acquisitions, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Signature’s ability to utilize its NOLs or recognize tax benefits on future domestic taxable income may be limited. Signature’s ability to fully utilize its existing federal and state NOLs could be limited or eliminated should Signature (i) undergo an “ownership change” as described under Section 382 of the Tax Code; (ii) be found by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) not to be able to avail itself of Section 382(l)(5) of the Tax Code; (iii) not return to profitability or be only marginally profitable; or (iv) due to changes in federal or state tax laws and regulations. Although we cannot assure you that the IRS will agree with our position, we believe the Company met the criteria under Section 382(l)(5) of the Tax Code, as of the Effective Date, to be able to utilize the NOLs to offset future income generated by the Company, if any. Such usage, however, is predicated upon the Company not experiencing a future “ownership change.” An ownership change is generally defined as greater than a 50% change in equity ownership by value over a three-year period. We may experience an “ownership change” in the future as a result of changes in our common stock ownership, which would result in a limitation on our ability to utilize our NOLs. In addition, any changes to tax rules or the interpretation of tax rules could negatively impact our ability to recognize benefits from our NOLs. Our NOLs only have value to the extent we generate taxable income. If we are unable to generate taxable income prior to the expiration of the NOLs, or if we are only marginally profitable during such period, we will be limited in our ability to utilize the tax benefits related to our NOLs. Finally, the use of federal and state NOLs is subject to various tax laws and regulations and the changes in such or the interpretations thereof. In California, for example, during 2011, we were unable to utilize any of our state NOLs due to a state moratorium on the usage of NOLs. While the moratorium expired on December 31, 2011, and has not yet been extended, no assurance can be made that we will be able to use our California state NOL in the future. Signature’s use of its NOLs in the future may be challenged by the IRS under anti-abuse rules associated with tax avoidance. While Signature believes it is eligible to utilize the full amount of the NOLs under Section 382(l)(5), the IRS can, at any time, challenge the use of NOLs in the future under an argument that a transaction or transactions were consummated with the substantial intent of sheltering future tax liabilities. In any situation where the IRS is successful in such a challenge, Signature’s ability to utilize its NOLs may be limited, which may have a material adverse impact on Signature’s acquisition strategy, financial condition and results of operations. Signature is subject to a considerable number of pending legal proceedings that virtually all relate to the discontinued operations of the Company. We are subject to a number of lawsuits seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief that relate to discontinued operations. For a summary of our material legal proceedings, see “Legal Proceedings” in Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report. Additional litigation may be filed against us or disputes may arise in the future concerning matters involving the discontinued operations. We have been and intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves in all legal proceedings in which we are involved, however, the outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain and could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the costs to defend the Company in these matters may be significant. 10 Table of Contents Signature has received repurchase claims relating to certain residential mortgage loans originated prior to March 31, 2007 and sold by the discontinued operations of the Company. We may receive additional claims in the future that, unless withdrawn or settled within the limits of a repurchase reserve we have established, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, Signature had $101.7 million of outstanding repurchase claims associated with breaches of certain representations and warranties related to the residential real estate mortgages sold by FIL. Signature maintains a loan repurchase reserve for the estimated losses we may experience from repurchase claims, both known and unknown, based on the representations and warranties FIL provided to counterparties that purchased the residential real estate loans, largely from 2002 through 2007. While management believes that Signature’s $7.5 million loan repurchase reserve liability was sufficient as of December 31, 2012, such reserve is subjective and is based on management’s current expectations based on facts currently known to management. Changing or new facts and circumstances could cause us to increase such repurchase reserve in future periods or may cause the Company to experience losses in excess of its repurchase reserve liability. Any material increase in, or change in the nature of, our repurchase claim activity and payout amounts, our repurchase reserve, or changes in our ability to object to, defend or settle such claims, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Critical Accounting Policies” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report for additional information related to our repurchase reserve. Signature depends on key personnel to achieve its business and strategic objectives. We depend on the members of our senior management team, particularly Craig Noell and Kyle Ross, to execute our business plan and strategy and to manage our business and day-to-day operations, including identifying, structuring, closing and monitoring the deployment of our capital. These members of our senior management team have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely upon to implement our business plan. If we lose the services of one or more of these individuals we may not be able to operate our business or identify and manage our business as we planned, and our ability to compete could be harmed, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Signature has a new management team, Board and business strategy with limited operating history. Signature emerged from Bankruptcy Proceedings in June 2010 with a new management team and Board, as well as a new business plan and strategy. Since then, we have experienced changes in our Board. Signature is subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our business objectives. The members of the Board have not worked together in the past, which we believe to be valuable on one hand, as it provides a broader perspective for the business strategy and initiatives we may be required to evaluate, but this limited history also represents a potential risk in that the Board may not come to a consensus on every business decision or may require additional time to deliberate among potential options for any particular matter, which could result in possible lost business opportunities. Additionally, in the future, we may have turnover in the members of the Board, as we experienced in 2011 and 2012. Impairment of our intangible assets could result in significant charges that could adversely impact our future operating results. We have significant intangible assets, including goodwill, which are susceptible to impairment charges as a result of changes in various factors or conditions. The most significant intangible assets on our balance sheet are goodwill, customer relationships and trade names, all of which are related to business combinations. We assess the potential impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on an annual basis, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may exceed fair value. We assess finite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may exceed fair value. As of December 31, 2012, we had identifiable intangible assets with a carrying value of $4.3 million, and goodwill of $17.8 million in our consolidated balance sheets. Adverse changes in the operations of our businesses or other unforeseeable factors could result in an impairment charge in future periods that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position in that period. 11 Table of Contents We do not have long-term contracts with our customers and the loss of a significant number of our key customers could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Industrial Supply operates primarily based on individual orders and sales with customers and did not have any backlog as of December 31, 2012. Historically, we have not entered into long-term supply contracts with our customers. As such, our customers could cease buying circuit breakers and related products from us at any time and for any reason, without any penalty. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, each of three of our customers represented more than 10% of consolidated operating revenues. In 2012 and 2011, these customers accounted for 40.3% and 35.1% of the our consolidated operating revenues, respectively, and represented 55.3% and 56.7% of trade accounts receivable at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Because we do not have long-term contracts with our customers, we have no recourse in the event a customer no longer wants to purchase products from us. If a significant number of our customers elected not to purchase our products, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Signature has $5.1 million in remaining unpaid claims filed with the California Federal Bankruptcy Court that could have a material adverse effect on our capital resources and detract our management team if we are unsuccessful in objecting to, litigating or settling these matters in the near future. As of December 31, 2012, there remained two open unpaid claims filed with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California, Santa Ana Division (the “California Federal Bankruptcy Court”) totaling $5.1 million. We plan to continue to litigate those claims, which litigation has been costly both in terms of legal fees, as well as management’s time in addressing these matters. If Signature is unsuccessful in resolving such litigation in the near future, or is unable to negotiate substantially reduced settlements for the remaining claims, and Signature is obligated to pay these amounts, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report for additional information about the Colburn and Walker matters. Signature’s $24.8 million tax refund request related to its 2008 NOL carryback is subject to review by the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, and we may be required to pay additional amounts to the IRS related to pending examinations of our tax returns. Following completion of the IRS examination of Fremont’s consolidated tax returns for the 2006 and 2007 tax years, the Company received a tax refund in the amount of $24.4 million, net of other potential tax liabilities of $0.4 million, related to its 2008 NOL carryback to the 2003, 2004 and 2005 tax years. In February 2011, the IRS notified the Company that the tax refund was subject to review by the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation (the “Joint Committee”), which reviews all refund requests in excess of $2.0 million. The Company’s tax returns for the 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2008 tax years are currently under examination by the IRS. In connection with such examination, in December 2012, the IRS notified the Company of a $2.6 million alternative minimum tax liability related to the 2005 tax year. The Company has provided the IRS with certain information related to the proposed 2005 alternative minimum tax liability. Such information provides the basis for reducing the alternative minimum tax liability to $0.4 million, which liability was accrued at December 31, 2012, and in January 2013. While we are still in negotiations with the IRS regarding this examination, we cannot assure you that we will not be required to pay additional amounts related to the liability alleged by the IRS or that other amounts may become due related to the examination. Although the Company does not have any reason to believe that the Joint Committee will not approve the remaining portion of the tax refund, there is no assurance that such approval will be given by the Joint Committee and an adverse finding could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced substantial losses and may continue to experience losses for the foreseeable future. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company reported net losses of $7.5 million and $12.8 million, respectively. While the net loss declined in 2012, we cannot assure you that our efforts to increase 12 Table of Contents operating revenues and reduce our operating costs will improve our financial performance or that we will be able to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the foreseeable future. Since emerging from Bankruptcy Proceedings, we continue to have significant operating costs, including compensation, legal, professional and other outside services expenses, occupancy, interest expense, and other general and administrative expenses. As a result of the fixed nature of many of our operating costs, we generally are unable to reduce our expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues. As a result, we may continue to experience operating losses and net losses for the foreseeable future, which could make it difficult to fund our operations, finance any acquisitions and achieve our business plan, any of which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting or experience material weaknesses in our system of internal control, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or on a timely basis and may not be able to detect fraud, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and our stock price. Our management concluded that as of December 31, 2011, we operated with a weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to our inability to maintain a sufficient number of financial and accounting personnel with the appropriate level of accounting knowledge and experience in order to provide timely, accurate and reliable financial statements in accordance with general accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), our management (a) acquired accounting and financial reporting resources with the appropriate accounting knowledge and experience, and (b) implemented new disclosure controls and procedures, which, we believe, remediated the material weakness as of September 30, 2012, and we continue to believe that our disclosure controls and procedures are operating effectively at December 31, 2012. Although we believe we have addressed the material weakness, if we fail to maintain or enhance these accounting functions or if we experience any further deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or fail to properly maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to detect fraud or to report our financial results accurately and on a timely basis. The existence of any such deficiencies and/or weaknesses, even if cured, could also lead to the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock. Such deficiencies or material weaknesses may also subject us to lawsuits, investigations and other penalties. In addition, our business strategy contemplates the acquisitions of businesses and the operation of subsidiaries whose financial results will be consolidated into our financial statements and reporting. As a result of these business activities and our future growth, the scope of our internal control over financial reporting will have to expand, which may subject us to increased internal control risks. Effective internal control over financial reporting must be established and maintained at these subsidiaries in order for us to produce accurate and timely financial reports. Failure to do so would result in our inability to report our financial results accurately and on a timely basis, and possibly lead to other deficiencies, which would likely have a negative effect on the market value of our equity securities. Furthermore, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act currently requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report. As a smaller reporting company, we were exempt from the auditor attestation requirement regarding our internal control over financial reporting for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2012; however, to the extent we do not qualify as a non-accelerated filer or smaller reporting company in subsequent fiscal years, we will be subject to the auditor attestation requirement under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In such an event, we may not be able to complete the work required for such attestation on a timely basis and, even if we timely complete such requirements, we cannot assure you that our independent registered public accounting firm will conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. 13 Table of Contents The value of the collateral securing our loans receivable depends on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. In the event of a default, there can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of the collateral securing our loans will be sufficient to satisfy the obligations of our borrowers. There is also a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise, or may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the borrower and market conditions. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the borrower’s remaining assets, if any, which may result in the incurrence of losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in, and compliance with, laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy. We are subject to regulation at the federal, state and local level. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, any of which could harm us and our shareholders, potentially with retroactive effect. In particular, any changes in government regulations that affect our ability to collect amounts due on our residential real estate loans or increased costs to service and monitor such loans, or changes in bankruptcy or collection laws could negatively impact our operating results. Additionally, changes to laws and regulations may cause us to alter our business strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences in the strategies and plans set forth in this Annual Report. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our inability to comply with the federal, state and local statutes and regulations in the business segments, geographic regions and jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price. B. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQX market, which may not provide investors with a meaningful degree of liquidity. Bid quotations for our common stock are available on the OTCQX, an electronic quotation service for securities traded over-the-counter. Bid quotations can be sporadic and do not provide any meaningful liquidity to investors. In 2012, the Company’s common stock also experienced low average trading volumes, which likely will impact an investor’s sale of a large number of shares at any given time for a desired sales price, if at all. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Since the Effective Date, the market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock has varied significantly, from a low closing sales price per share of $0.23 per share in 2012, to a high closing price per share $0.86 per share in 2010. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to: • changes or variations in earnings and/or operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio of assets; • our ability to complete acquisitions on a timely basis, and generate the expected benefits from such acquisitions; • shortfalls in operating revenues or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • changes in accounting principles or changes in interpretations of existing accounting principles, which could affect our financial results; • changes in legislation or regulatory policies, practices, or actions; 14 Table of Contents • the commencement or outcome of material litigation involving the Company, or the industries in which we have exposure, or both; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; • actual or expected sales of our common stock by our shareholders; • departure of key personnel; and • general economic trends and other external factors. Certain provisions of our Amended and Restated Bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions to protect the value of our NOLs. Such provisions may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us, which may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock. See “Tax Benefit Preservation Provision” in Part II, Item 5 of this Annual Report for additional information about these provisions. Our Rights Agreement could discourage, delay or prevent takeover attempts. Attempts to acquire control of the Company may be discouraged, delayed or prevented by a rights agreement, between Fremont and Mellon Investor Service, LLC dated October 23, 2007 (the “Rights Agreement”), which was adopted to protect the value of our NOLs and continues to remain in effect. The Rights Agreement provides for a dividend distribution of a right for each outstanding share of Company common stock (a “Right”). The Rights Agreement also provides that, in the event that (i) the Company engages in a merger or other business combination transaction in which the Company is not the surviving corporation; (ii) the Company engages in a merger or other business combination transaction in which the Company is the surviving corporation and the Company’s common stock is changed or exchanged; or (iii) 50% or more of the Company’s assets, cash flow or earning power is sold or transferred, each holder of a Right (except Rights that have previously been voided because they were held by the acquiring person or entity) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company as set forth in the Rights Agreement. The existence of the Rights Agreement may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from effecting a change of control or takeover of the Company in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock. Our pending legal proceedings and other contingent liabilities may limit our ability to use our common stock as currency in potential future transactions. We are subject to a number of lawsuits seeking monetary damages or injunctive relief and have potential other contingent liabilities, including repurchase claims, which relate to our discontinued operations. See Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report for more information about our legal proceedings. The outcome of such litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, which may limit our ability to utilize our common stock as consideration for potential future acquisitions and other transactions in which we may engage. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 