Item 1A. Risk Factors This Comprehensive Form 10-K Report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and current results reported herein are not guarantees of future performance or results and there can be no assurance that actual developments and economic performance will be as anticipated by us. Actual developments and/or results may differ significantly and adversely from expected results as a result of significant risks, uncertainties and factors. These listed risk factors are not intended to be exhaustive and the order in which the risk appear is not intended as an indication of their relative weight or importance. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Comprehensive Form 10-K or elsewhere. A. BUSINESS RISKS Business risks are risks associated with general business conditions, the economy, and the operations of Signature. Business risks are not risks associated with specific investments we may make nor are they risks associated with an offering of, or investment in, our common stock. The business risks associated with the business conducted by Fremont and FIL are not presented herein because Signature is not engaged in those businesses. Signature’s financial condition and results of operations will depend on its ability to manage and deploy capital effectively. Our ability to achieve our business and investment objectives will depend on our ability to effectively manage and deploy our capital, which will depend, in turn, on our investment manager’s ability to identify, evaluate, invest in, and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our business and investment objectives. 33 Table of Contents Accomplishing our business and investment objectives on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of our investment manager’s handling of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services, its access to investments offering acceptable terms, and its ability to consummate those investments. In addition to monitoring the performance of our investments, members of our investment manager’s management team and its investment professionals may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. The results of our operations will depend on many factors, including the availability of opportunities for investment, readily accessible short and long-term funding alternatives in the financial markets, and economic conditions. In addition, changes in the business practices of commercial and investment banks, public and private funds, commercial finance companies, private equity funds, hedge funds, high net worth individuals and governmental agencies in terms of providing debt and equity financing in the middle market or selling loan portfolios and other financial assets may negatively impact our ability to source attractive investment opportunities and deploy capital. If we cannot successfully operate our business or implement our investment policies and strategies as described in this Comprehensive Form 10-K, it could negatively impact our financial condition. Even if we are able to grow and build our investment operations, any failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Signature’s business model depends to a significant extent upon its investment manager’s referral relationships, and its ability to maintain or develop these relationships in the future. We expect that the management team and members of Signature’s investment manager, SCA, will maintain their relationships with financial institutions, private equity and other non-bank investors, investment bankers, commercial bankers, attorneys, accountants and consultants, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If the management team and members of our investment manager fail to maintain their existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to achieve our business and investment objectives. In addition, individuals or firms with whom the management team and members of our investment manager have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. Signature has a new management team, Board of Directors and business strategy with limited operating history. Signature emerged from bankruptcy in June 2010 with a new management team and Board of Directors, as well as a new business model. As a result, Signature is subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our business objectives. Additionally, prior to the Effective Date, certain members of Signature’s management team had not worked together. While we have similar professional backgrounds and investment philosophies, there are no guarantees that we will have consensus on every business decision. Finally, none of Signature’s Board of Directors’ members have worked together in the past, which we believe to be valuable on one hand, as it provides a broader perspective for the business initiatives we may be required to evaluate, but this limited history also represents a potential risk in that the Board may not come to consensus on every business decision or may require additional time to deliberate among potential options for any particular matter. Signature depends on key personnel of SCA in seeking to achieve its business and investment objectives. Signature depends on the members of the senior management team of our investment adviser, particularly Craig F. Noell, Kenneth Grossman, Kyle Ross, Thomas Donatelli and David Collett for the management of its business and, in particular, the final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of its investments. These employees have critical industry experience and relationships that Signature will be relying on to implement its business plan. If we lose the services of these individuals, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Signature’s Interim Management Agreement with SCA is not a long term arrangement and the economic terms are likely to change in the future. Pursuant to the Interim Management Agreement, Signature contracted with SCA to provide general business management for its operations through December 31, 2010 with annual renewals if a revised Investment Management Agreement had not yet been entered into between the parties. The Interim Management Agreement has certain beneficial terms for Signature; in particular, a pass-through-of-expenses management fee structure and a salary limitation on the SCA Executives. We expect a more permanent Investment Management Agreement will have a substantially different management fee structure, which may result in increased cost to Signature. 34 Table of Contents Signature is subject to considerable pending legal proceedings which relate to Fremont and/or FIL’s business. We are subject to a number of lawsuits seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief which relate to Fremont and/or FIL’s business. For a summary of the material litigation matters See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this Comprehensive Form 10-K. Additional litigation may be filed against us or disputes may arise in the future concerning matters involving the prior business of Fremont and/or FIL’s business or the business which Signature is now beginning to engage. We have been and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in all legal proceedings we are involved in, including the lawsuits described in Item 3, however, the outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain and could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Signature has received repurchase claims relating to certain residential mortgage loan originations sold by FIL and may receive additional claims in the future that, unless withdrawn or settled within the limits of a reserve we have established, could harm our financial condition and results of operations. When FIL sold residential mortgage loans it originated in whole loan sales or securitization vehicles to other financial institutions, it was required to make customary representations and warranties about such mortgage loans. The sale agreements required FIL to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event of a breach of a representation or warranty given to the purchaser or if there existed a misrepresentation during the mortgage loan origination process. Fremont or Signature as its successor has received over one billion dollars in repurchase claim demands to date, which have been systematically responded to and either repurchased, settled, objected to and withdrawn, or which remain outstanding. The amount of repurchase claims outstanding was $257.5 million and $100.0 million as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Fremont established and Signature continues to maintain a loan repurchase reserve for the estimated losses associated with such loan repurchase demand claims, both known and unknown. While management believes that its $37.2 million and $8.9 million loan repurchase reserve liability was sufficient as of December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively, no assurance can be made that changing facts and circumstances could not cause us to increase such repurchase reserve in future periods or for the Company to experience losses in excess of its repurchase reserve liability. Any material increase in repurchase claim activity, our repurchase reserve or change in our ability to object to, defend, or settle such claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. Adverse changes in the residential mortgage markets may affect the value of Signature’s residential mortgage loans held for sale or its ability to sell such assets for acceptable prices. As of December 31, 2009, Fremont held $140.6 million of unpaid principal balance (“UPB”) of residential mortgage loans which were classified as held for sale and carried at a value of $53.4 million, or 38% of UPB. The value of residential mortgage loans held for sale depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, interest rates, the value of the underlying collateral and legislative and regulatory actions. In addition, historically, Fremont relied on other financial institutions to purchase mortgage loans in the whole loan market. Although Signature is not actively marketing these loans for sale at the time of the filing of this Comprehensive Form 10-K, adverse changes in the residential mortgage markets, such as those experienced since mid 2007, may affect Signature’s ability to sell the remaining residential mortgage loans held for sale for acceptable prices, if it elects to do so in the future. These adverse changes in the residential mortgage markets may have a material adverse effect upon the value of our residential mortgage loans, our financial condition and results of operations. Signature did not pay approximately $17.2 million in claims filed with the Bankruptcy Court on the Effective Date, which it must resolve before a final decree will be issued. On the Effective Date, Signature did not pay approximately $17.2 million in claims as the claims and/or amounts were in dispute. Subsequent to the Effective Date, Signature resolved $2.9 million in claims related to voluntary withdrawal and paid approximately $3.0 million to certain other claimholders during the third quarter of 2010. As for the remaining claims which Signature does not believe it is liable for, Signature is actively seeking their voluntary withdrawal, plans to object to them in the Bankruptcy Court, or plans to continue to litigate them in the appropriate venues. If Signature is unsuccessful in such objections, such litigation, or is unable to negotiate substantially reduced settlements with the claimholders of the remaining claims, and Signature is obligated to pay these amounts, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. See “D. Recent Developments—1. Events Associated with Emergence from Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Proceedings” for more information on the “Unpaid Claims.” 35 Table of Contents The Company’s $24.4 million tax refund related to its 2008 carryback NOL is subject to review of the Joint Committee. Following completion of the IRS examination of Fremont’s consolidated tax returns, the Company received a tax refund in the amount of $24.4 million, net of other potential tax liabilities of $0.4 million, related to the carryback 2008 NOL applicable to prior taxable year periods 2003, 2004 and 2005. In February 2011, the IRS notified the Company that the tax refund was subject to review by the Joint Committee, and a request was made for certain information from the Company in connection with its review of the tax refund. Although the Company does not have any reason to believe that the Joint Committee will not approve the full amount of the tax refund, there is no assurance that such approval will given by the Joint Committee. Signature’s inability to control its expenses may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Since emerging from bankruptcy, Signature’s sources of revenue have been limited. We continue to have significant operating and non-interest expenses, including compensation and related expense, legal, professional and other outside services, occupancy expense, interest expense, and information technology expense. Although we have significantly reduced our expenses, our inability to further reduce our expenses may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Strategic investments or acquisitions and joint ventures, or Signature’s entry into new business areas, may result in additional risks and uncertainties in its business. Signature expects to grow its business through internal expansion of commercial lending operations as well through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. When we make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, we expect to face numerous risks and uncertainties in combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including, potentially, the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers and business partners. Our participation in any other ventures that we may enter into may subject us to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. Conflicts or disagreements between us and the other members of a venture may negatively impact our businesses. In addition, future acquisitions or joint ventures may involve the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which may dilute our stockholders’ ownership of our firm. Signature’s expansion into new areas may require significant resources and/or may result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. In addition, expansions, acquisitions or joint ventures may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from its other operations. These capital, equity and managerial commitments may impair the operation of its businesses and as a result negatively impact our financial condition and/or operating results. Signature’s ability to utilize its NOLs or recognize tax benefits on future domestic U.S. Tax losses may be limited. Signature’s ability to fully utilize its existing U.S. Federal NOL could be limited or eliminated should Signature (i) undergo an “ownership change” as described under Section 382 of the Tax Code or (ii) be found by the IRS not to be able to avail itself of Section 382(l)(5) of the Tax Code. Although no assurances can be given that the IRS agrees with our position, as of the Effective Date, we believe the Company met the criteria under Section 382(l)(5) of the Tax Code to be able to utilize a substantial amount of NOLs to offset future income generated by the Company, if any. Such usage, however, is predicated upon the Company not experiencing a future “ownership change”. An ownership change is generally defined as greater than 50% change in equity ownership by value over a three-year period. We may experience an “ownership change” in the future as a result of changes in our stock ownership, which would result in a limitation on our ability to utilize our NOLs. Furthermore, since we are relying on Section 382(l)(5) of the Tax Code, if we were to experience an ownership change during a two year period beginning on the Effective Date, we would lose our entire ability to utilize the NOLs. In addition, any changes to tax rules or the interpretation of tax rules could negatively impact our ability to recognize benefits from our NOLs. As of the Effective Date, we have amended our Amended and Restated Bylaws to provide for restrictions on certain transfers of Signature common stock in order to preserve our NOLs. Unless approved by the Board, any attempted transfer of Signature common stock is prohibited and void to the extent that, as a result of such transfer (or any series of transfers) (i) any person or group of persons shall become a “five-percent holder” of Signature (as defined in the Treasury Regulations or (ii) the ownership interests of any five-percent shareholder shall be increased or decreased. Persons wishing to become a 5% shareholder (or existing 5% shareholders wishing to increase or decrease their percentage share ownership) may request a waiver of the restriction from Signature, and the Board of Directors may grant a waiver in its discretion. 36 Table of Contents Signature’s use of its NOLs in the future may be challenged by the IRS under anti-abuse rules associated with tax avoidance. Signature expects that the IRS may investigate any attempted use of the NOLs to offset future taxable income. While Signature believes it is eligible to utilize the full amount of the NOLs under Section 382(l)(5), the IRS can at anytime challenge the use of NOLs in the future under an argument that a transaction or transactions were concluded with the substantial intent of sheltering future tax liabilities. In any situation where the IRS is successful in such a challenge, Signature’s ability to utilize its NOLs may be limited, which may have a material adverse impact on Signature’s financial performance. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in our failure to accurately and timely report our financial results. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Our management has concluded that as of December 31, 2009, we did not maintain an effective overall control environment, which is the foundation for effective internal control over financial reporting. As a result of the sale of substantially all of Fremont’s business operations from 2007 to 2008 and the significant reduction in certain other business operations as a result of the bankruptcy proceedings, Fremont experienced considerable turnover of staffing within its accounting operations during the periods covered by this Comprehensive Form 10-K. Additionally, during the period in which Fremont was in bankruptcy proceedings with limited resources and operations, we did not maintain a sufficient number of financial and accounting staff personnel with the appropriate level of accounting knowledge and experience in order to timely provide accurate and reliable financial statements that were prepared and reviewed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. See “Controls and Procedures—Changes In Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” in Item 9A of this Comprehensive Form 10-K for further information about the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and the effect of this material weakness, including the impact on our accounting functions and policies, as well as our financial reporting. If we fail to further enhance the number and expertise of our staff in our accounting and finance functions or otherwise fail to identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, remediate any deficiencies, or identify material weaknesses in the future, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately and on a timely basis. Additional material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal controls may be discovered in the future. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting also could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the market value of our equity securities. Even if we are able to report our financial statements accurately and timely, if we do not make all the necessary improvements to address the material weakness, continued disclosure of our material weakness will be required in future filings with the Commission. Changes in, and compliance with, laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect Signature’s business or cause it to alter its business strategy. We and the companies in which we provide capital to or acquire will be subject to regulation at the local, state and federal level. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, any of which could harm us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. In particular, any changes in domestic and foreign government regulations that affect our ability to collect sufficient amounts on our portfolio assets, or changes to bankruptcy or collection laws could negatively impact our operating results. Additionally, any changes to the laws and regulations may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this Comprehensive Form 10-K and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of our management team to other types of investments in which our management team may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our inability to comply with the federal, state and local statutes and regulations in the business segments, geographic regions and jurisdictions in which we operate could harm us and our stockholders. 37 Table of Contents Signature’s results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. The results of operations are and will be affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in national or local economies. Signature’s success will depend on SCA’s ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in a competitive environment. Signature expects SCA will experience competition in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly investment professionals, and Signature may be unable to maintain or grow its business if SCA cannot attract and retain such personnel. SCA’s ability to attract and retain personnel with the requisite credentials, experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, SCA’s ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. Many of the entities, including investment funds (such as private equity funds and mezzanine funds) and traditional financial services companies, with which SCA competes for experienced personnel have greater resources than it has. The competitive environment for qualified personnel may require Signature and SCA to take certain measures to ensure that SCA is able to attract and retain experienced personnel. Such measures may include increasing the attractiveness of the overall compensation packages, altering the structure of compensation packages through the use of additional forms of compensation, or other steps. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Signature operates in a highly competitive market for the transactions it seeks to engage in. A large number of entities compete to source, structure and effectuate the types of transactions that we plan to be involved with in companies operating in the lower middle market. We compete for opportunities with traditional financial services companies such as commercial and investment banks, business development companies, investment funds (including private equity funds and mezzanine funds) and other sources of funding. Moreover, alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, also provide capital to lower middle market companies. As a result, competition for opportunities in lower middle market companies is intense. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we have. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of opportunities, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we are able to do. We may lose out on transactions if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we are forced to match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our capital or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. Notwithstanding the competitive nature of our business, we believe the market opportunity of providing capital in lower middle market companies is still underserved, but a significant increase in the number and/or the size of capital providers or other competitors in this target market could force us to accept less attractive terms. Signature’s results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies, including changes in the accounting regulations to be applied. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Likewise, our results of operations may be impacted due to changes in the accounting rules to be applied, such as the increased use of fair value measurement rules, estimates of liabilities for repurchase and litigation reserves, and the potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. 38 Table of Contents B. RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK Investors will not have access to current business, financial and operating information about Fremont or Signature in order to make an informed investment decision in Signature common stock until all of our prior periodic reports have been filed with the Commission. Signature has not yet filed with the Commission its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended on or after March 31, 2010 or its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. We expect to file these periodic reports with the Commission as soon as practicable. Until we file these reports, there will be limited useful public information available concerning Signature’s new business plan and recent results of operations and financial condition of Signature. The absence of more recent business and financial information will make it difficult of any investor to make an informed investment decision to purchase or sell our common stock. Signature does not expect to be able to access the public U.S. capital markets until all of its periodic reporting with the Commission is up to date. Signature will be unable to register its common stock with the Commission to access the U.S. public securities markets until it has filed its prior periodic reports and financial statements with the Commission. This precludes Signature from raising debt or equity financing in registered transactions in the U.S. public capital markets to support growth in its business plan. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC “pink sheets” market which does not provide investors with a meaningful degree of liquidity. Bid quotations for our common stock are available on the OTC “pink sheets,” an electronic quotation service for securities traded over-the-counter. Bid quotations on the pink sheets can be sporadic and the pink sheets do not provide any meaningful liquidity to investors. An investor may find it difficult to dispose of shares or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the common stock. There can be no assurance that our plans to seek listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Stock Market, the New York Stock Exchange or another securities exchange once we become current in our filing obligations with the Commission will be successful or that we will be able to satisfy the listing standards of an exchange when we do, and, we cannot provide any assurance as to when we will have filed all of our past periodic reports with the Commission. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: ● changes in earnings or variations in operating results; ● changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; ● any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; ● changes in accounting principles or changes in interpretations of existing principles, which could affect our financial results; ● changes in legislation or regulatory policies, practices, or actions; ● the commencement or outcome of material litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; ● changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; ● actual or expected sales of our common stock by our stockholders; ● departure of our investment adviser’s key personnel; and ● general economic trends and other external factors. Certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions to protect the value of our NOLs. See “Tax Attribute Preservation Provision” in Item 5 of this Comprehensive Form 10-K. Such provisions may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us, which may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock. 39 Table of Contents Our Rights Agreement could discourage, delay or prevent takeover attempts. Attempts to acquire control of the Company may be discouraged, delayed or prevented by the Rights Agreement, which was adopted by Fremont on October 23, 2007 and continues to remain in effect. The Rights Agreement provides for a dividend distribution of a Right for each outstanding share of Company common stock. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company a Unit of Preferred Stock at a price of $12.00 per one one-thousandth of a share, subject to adjustment as provided in the Rights Agreement. Subject to the exceptions and limitations contained in the Rights Agreement, the Rights generally are exercisable if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of the Company’s common stock or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation of which such person or group would beneficially own 5% or more of the Company’s common stock, provided the Company’s Board of Directors affirmatively determines a Distribution Date (as defined in the Rights Agreement) shall occur. In addition the Rights Agreement also provides that, in the event that (i) the Company engages in a merger or other business combination transaction in which the Company is not the surviving corporation, (ii) the Company engages in a merger or other business combination transaction in which the Company is the surviving corporation and the Company’s common stock is changed or exchanged, or (iii) 50% or more of the Company’s assets, cash flow or earning power is sold or transferred, each holder of a Right (except Rights which have previously been voided because they were held by the acquiring person or entity) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company as set forth in the Rights Agreement. The existence of the Rights Agreement may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from effecting a change of control or takeover of our company that our management and board of directors oppose. For more information about the Rights Agreement, see the full text of the Rights Agreement included in Exhibit 4.8 to this Comprehensive Form 10-K. Our pending legal proceedings and other contingent liabilities may limit our ability to use our common stock as currency in potential future transactions. We are subject to a number of lawsuits seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief and have potential other contingent liabilities, including repurchase claims, which relate to the prior businesses and operations of Fremont and FIL. See Items 1 and 3 of this Comprehensive Form 10-K. The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, which may limit our ability to utilize our common stock as consideration for potential future acquisition and other transactions in which we may engage. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 