Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s business. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect its business, financial condition, or results of operations. A variety of factors may cause the price of the Company’s stock to be volatile. In recent years, the stock market in general, and the market for shares of technology companies in particular, including Frequency Electronics, have experienced price fluctuations. For example, for fiscal year 2007, the price of the Company’s Common Stock ranged from a closing high of $14.25 to a closing low of $10.30. The market price of the Company’s Common Stock is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, including fluctuations unrelated to its performance. The Company believes that fluctuations of its stock price may be caused by a variety of factors, including: · fluctuations in the Company’s operating results; 12 · announcements of technological innovations, new commercial products or other developments by the Company or its competitors; · published reports by securities analysts; · general market conditions, general economic conditions; · announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; · the Company’s cash position and cash commitments; · additions or departures of key personnel; · sales or purchases of the Company’s Common Stock in the marketplace; · an outbreak of hostilities, diseases, natural disasters or terrorism; · developments in patents or other intellectual property rights; and · developments in the Company’s relationships with customers and suppliers. If the Company fails to keep pace with rapid technological change and evolving industry standards, its products could become less competitive or obsolete. The markets for the Company’s products are characterized by technological change, new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. The Company may cease to be competitive if it fails to timely introduce new products or product enhancements that address these factors. To continue to introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, the Company must: · identify emerging technological trends in the Company’s target markets; · accurately define and design new products or product enhancements to meet market needs; · develop or license the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and product enhancements; and · respond effectively to technological changes and product introductions by the Company’s competitors. If the Company fails to timely identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, its competitors could gain market share or its new or enhanced products might not gain market acceptance. Delays in the development of new or enhanced products could harm the Company’s operating results and its competitive position. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, highly skilled engineering and development personnel and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Consequently, product development delays are typical in the Company’s industry. If the Company fails to timely introduce a product for an emerging standard or customers defer or cancel orders expecting the release of a new or enhanced product, its operating results could suffer. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: · changing product specifications and customer requirements; · unanticipated engineering complexities; · difficulties with or delays by contract manufacturers or suppliers of key components or technologies; · difficulties in allocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; and · difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel. The Company faces uncertainty relating to economic conditions affecting its customers. The Company faces uncertainty in the degree to which the current global economic climate will affect the rate of growth for its existing and potential customers. In particular, the timing and magnitude of capital spending by international telecommunications companies, including those in China, will materially impact the Company’s business. Frequency Electronics may experience instances of customers delaying or deferring orders and longer lead times to close sales. Similarly, spending on U.S. Government programs is determined by the annual defense department budget. To the extent that support for the liberation and rebuilding of Iraq takes precedence, funding for certain Department of Defense programs may be delayed or significantly reduced in the near term. Such delays can have a materially negative impact on the Company’s business, its operating results and financial condition. 13 The Company faces competition. Its inability to remain competitive in the industry would adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain its current sales and growth. The Company experiences competition in all areas of its business. Frequency Electronics competes primarily on the basis of the accuracy, performance and reliability of its products, the ability of its products to function under severe conditions, such as in space or other extreme hostile environments, prompt and responsive contract performance, technical competence and price. The Company has a unique and broad product line which includes all three frequency standards - quartz, rubidium, and cesium. For its high precision products, the Company has few competitors, but for lower precision components, the Company faces significant competition from a number of suppliers. Certain of the Company’s competitors are larger, have greater financial resources and have larger research and development and marketing staffs. If its competitors develop more accurate or reliable products, or otherwise improve their products, Frequency Electronics could experience a decline in its sales or loss of market acceptance of its products. With respect to the Company’s instruments and systems, it competes with Agilent Technologies, Symmetricom, Inc, E. G. and G., Inc., Vectron, Inc. and others. Systems for the wireline industry produced by the Gillam-FEI segment compete with Symmetricom, Inc. and Oscilloquartz, a division of Swatch. Frequency Electronics’ principal competition for space products is the in-house capability of its major customers. The Company’s reliance on third parties could materially adversely affect its business. In recent years, the Company has outsourced certain component manufacturing processes to third parties and more recently to its wholly-owned subsidiary, FEI-Asia in Tianjin, China and to Russian-based Morion, Inc., in which the Company is a minority shareholder. The Company expects this outsourcing to enhance its competitive position on cost while maintaining its high quality standards. Any unanticipated changes in such third parties’ ability to perform the component manufacturing processes or any delay in such manufacturing could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. The Company’s executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to its business. The Company’s future success is dependent upon the contributions of its senior corporate management team, particularly Martin Bloch, President and Chief Executive Officer, who has been with the Company since 1961, Markus Hechler, Executive Vice President, who has been with the Company since 1967, Oleandro Mancini, Vice President of Business Development, who has been with the Company since 2001 and certain other key employees. If Messrs. Bloch, Hechler and Mancini no longer serve in their positions, the Company’s business, financial conditions and results of operation could be substantially adversely affected. The Company’s future operating results also depend in significant part upon its ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the Company cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and it may be increasingly difficult for the Company to hire personnel over time. The Company’s business, financial conditions and results of operation could be substantially adversely affected by its inability to attract and retain skilled employees. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect sales. Because the Company sells its products worldwide, its business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. The Company recognized 32% of its revenue from sales to end-users in countries located outside of the United States in the fiscal year ended April 30, 2007. The Company anticipates that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of its revenue. In addition, several of the Company’s manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside the United States of America. Accordingly, the Company’s future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: · changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; 14 · tariff and trade policies; · export license requirements and restrictions of the export of technology; · import regulations; · domestic and foreign tax policies; · foreign governmental regulations; · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; · ongoing health epidemics (e.g., Bird Flu); · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · stability of international monetary conditions; · differing labor regulations; · political unrest, war, actual or threatened acts of terrorism, other international conflicts and the resulting military, economic and political responses (including, without limitation, war between sovereign nations) as well as heightened security measures which may cause significant disruption to commerce worldwide; · differing protection of intellectual property; and · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. The Company’s products may contain defects that cause it to incur significant corrective costs, divert its attention from product development efforts and result in a loss of customers. Highly complex products such as the Company’s high-technology frequency, timing and synchronization products may contain defects when they are installed in its customers’ systems. If any of the Company’s products contain defects or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, its reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy its products. In addition, these defects could interrupt or delay sales. The Company may have to invest significant capital and other resources to alleviate these problems. If any problem remains undiscovered until after the Company has commenced production of a new product, it may be required to incur additional development costs and product recall, repair or replacement costs. These problems may also result in claims against the Company by its customers or others. In addition, these problems may divert the Company’s technical and other resources from other development efforts. If the Company fails to manage its operations effectively, its business could suffer. The Company’s ability to offer products and implement its business plan successfully in a rapidly evolving market requires effective planning and management. Failure by the Company’s management or personnel to properly allocate resources to meet its current and existing needs as well as unforeseen complications and inefficiencies in planning its operations can adversely impact the morale of the Company’s personnel and lead to further complications and operational inefficiencies. If this were to occur, the Company’s profitability or financial position could be negatively impacted and its operating results could suffer. Claims that the Company infringed third-party intellectual property rights could result in significant expenses or restrictions on its ability to sell its products. Although the Company’s industry is not characterized by frequent claims or litigation regarding patent rights, the Company cannot be certain that its products do not or will not infringe issued patents or the intellectual property rights of others. Historically, patent applications in the United States of America have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, and the Company may not be aware of filed patent applications that relate to its products or technology. If patents are later issued in connection with these applications, the Company may be liable for infringement. Periodically, other parties, including some of the Company’s competitors, may assert patent, copyright and other rights to technologies in various jurisdictions that are important to its business. Any claims asserting that the Company’s products infringe or may infringe the rights of third parties, including claims arising through its contractual indemnification of its customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, would likely be costly and time-consuming, divert the efforts of the Company’s technical and management personnel, cause product shipment delays or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. 15 At present, the Company does not believe that its products infringe any other party’s intellectual property rights in any way that would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. However, if any material claims do arise and if these claims cannot be resolved through a license or similar arrangement, the Company could become a party to litigation. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation with third parties that could arise in the future, the Company could be required to pay substantial damages, including treble damages if it is held to have willfully infringed, to cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, or to obtain licenses to the infringing technology. In addition, lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention from the Company’s business. Any failure to protect the Company’s intellectual property adequately may significantly harm its business. The Company protects its proprietary processes, software, know-how and other intellectual property and related rights through copyrights, patents, trademarks and the maintenance of trade secrets, including entering into confidentiality agreements. The Company’s success and ability to compete depends in part on its proprietary technology. However, the Company cannot provide any assurance that other companies will not develop technologies that are similar to its technology. Although the Company has patent applications pending, patents may not issue as a result of these or other patent applications. Any patents that ultimately issue may be successfully challenged or invalidated, or may not provide the Company with a significant competitive advantage. Despite the Company’s efforts to protect its intellectual property rights, existing laws in the United States of America and in differing international jurisdictions and its contractual arrangements provide only limited protection. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use the Company’s products or technology. Third parties may breach confidentiality agreements or other protective contracts with the Company and it may not be able to enforce its rights in the event of these breaches. Monitoring unauthorized use of the Company’s products is difficult and may be expensive, and the Company cannot be certain that the steps it has taken will prevent unauthorized use of its intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect the Company’s proprietary rights as fully as in the United States of America. The Company may be required to spend significant resources to protect its intellectual property rights, including pursuing remedies in court. Frequency Electronics may become involved in legal proceedings against other parties, which may also cause other parties to assert claims against it. In the future the Company may not be able to detect infringements and may lose its competitive position in its markets before it does so. In addition, competitors may design around the Company’s technologies or develop competing technologies. The laws of other countries in which the Company markets its products might offer little or no effective protection of its proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of the Company’s proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from its technology without payment, which could significantly harm the Company’s business. The Company’s failure to enforce and protect its intellectual property rights or any adverse change in the laws protecting intellectual property rights could harm its business. Furthermore, the Company may become involved in legal proceedings against other parties, which may also cause other parties to assert claims against it. Future sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock by it or by its existing stockholders could cause the Company’s stock price to fall. Additional equity financings or other share issuances by the Company could adversely affect the market price of its Common Stock. Sales by existing stockholders of a large number of shares of Frequency Electronics’ Common Stock in the public trading market (or in private transactions) such as offerings by Selling Stockholders under the Form S-8 filed in February 2007, or the perception that such additional sales could occur, could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to drop. Some of the Company’s revenue is generated from a limited number of key customers and the loss of a key customer could substantially reduce its revenues. A large portion of the Company’s sales are generated from a small number of key customers at each of the Company’s segments, including, without limitation, three customers of the FEI-NY segment, Space Systems/Loral, Lucent Technologies and Motorola Corp., which together accounted for 43% of consolidated sales for fiscal 2007. In fiscal year 2007, France Telecom and Belgacom were significant customers of the Company’s Gillam-FEI segment; and Computer Sciences Corporation and SI International were significant customers of the FEI-Zyfer segment. The Company’s top 10 customers accounted for 69% of its consolidated sales for fiscal year 2007. The Company expects that its top 10 customers in the aggregate will continue to account for a large portion of its consolidated sales in the foreseeable future, and the loss of one or more of these customers would materially harm the Company’s business and operating results. The loss of a key customer could also be perceived as a loss of momentum in the Company’s business and an adverse impact on its financial results, and this may cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to fall. 16 The Company is subject to anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company The Company is subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of Frequency Electronics. These factors could materially adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 