Risk Factors Operational, strategic, compliance and other risks and uncertainties that continually face the Company are identified herein. The occurrence of adverse events associated with all risks, including those risks not listed specifically or those that are unforeseen at the present time, could result in significant adverse effects on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows, which could include the permanent closure of any affected restaurant(s) with an impairment of assets charge taken against earnings, and could adversely affect the price at which shares of the Company’s common stock trade. In addition to operating results, other factors can influence the volatility and price at which the Company’s common stock trades. The Company’s stock is thinly traded on the NYSE MKT. Thinly traded stocks can be susceptible to sudden, rapid declines in price, especially when holders of large blocks of shares seek exit positions. Rebalancing of stock indices in which the Company’s shares are placed, such as the Russell 2000 Index, can also influence the price of the Company’s stock. The Merger On May 21, 2015, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with FRI Holding Company, LLC and FRI Merger Sub, LLC. Under the terms of the agreement approved by Frisch’s Board of Directors, if the merger is effectuated, each outstanding share of Frisch’s Common Stock will be converted into a right to receive $34.00 per share in cash, without interest. The closing of the merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval of Frisch’s stockholders and regulatory clearance. Although there is no financing condition, the Merger is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions beyond the Company’s control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect the completion of the transaction. These conditions include, among other things, stockholder approval. Management cannot predict with certainty whether and when any of these conditions will be satisfied. The Merger Agreement may be terminated under certain circumstances, including in specified circumstances in connection with superior proposals. Assuming the satisfaction of the conditions to the Merger, the transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of calendar year 2015. However, there can be no assurance. If the Agreement and Plan of Merger are terminated, the Company may be obligated to reimburse FRI Holding Company, LLC or FRI Merger Sub, LLC for certain Merger related costs and could be subject to termination fees. These amounts would be paid from available cash that would have been otherwise available for other general corporate purposes. Finally, the risk exists that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom the Company has a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship with the Company as a result of the Merger, which could negatively affect revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of whether the Merger is completed. Similarly, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company following completion of the Merger, which may materially adversely affect the ability to attract and retain key employees. Food Safety Food safety is the most significant risk to any company that operates in the restaurant industry. It is the focus of increased government regulatory initiatives at the local, state and federal levels. Failure to protect the Company’s food supplies could result in food borne illnesses and/or injuries to customers. If any of the Company’s customers become ill from consuming the Company’s products, the affected restaurants may be forced to close. An instance of food contamination originating at the commissary operation could have far reaching effects, as the contamination would affect substantially all Frisch's Big Boy restaurants, including those licensed to other operators. 12 Economic Factors Economic recessions can negatively influence discretionary consumer spending in restaurants and result in lower customer counts, as consumers become more price conscientious, tending to conserve their cash amid unemployment and other economic uncertainty. The effects of higher gasoline prices can also negatively affect discretionary consumer spending in restaurants. Increasing costs for energy can affect profit margins in many other ways. Petroleum based material is often used to package certain products for distribution. In addition, suppliers may add fuel surcharges to their invoices. The cost to transport products from the commissary to restaurant operations will rise with each increase in fuel prices. Higher costs for electricity and natural gas result in higher costs to a) heat and cool restaurant facilities, b) refrigerate and cook food and c) manufacture and store food at the Company’s food manufacturing plant. Inflationary pressure, particularly on food costs, labor costs (especially associated with increases in the minimum wage) and health care benefits, can negatively affect the operation of the business. Shortages of qualified labor are sometimes experienced in certain local economies. In addition, the loss of any key executives could pose a significant adverse effect on the Company. Future funding requirements of the defined benefit pension plan that is sponsored by the Company largely depend upon the performance of investments that are held in the trust that has been established for the plan. Equity securities comprise 70 percent of the target allocation of the plan's assets. Poor performance in equity securities markets can significantly lower the market values of the plan's investment portfolio, which, in turn, can result in a) material increases in future funding requirements, b) much higher net periodic pension costs to be recognized in future years, and c) increases in the underfunded status of the plan, which requires a reduction in the Company’s equity to be recognized. Competition The restaurant industry is highly competitive and many of the Company’s competitors are substantially larger and possess greater financial resources than does the Company. Frisch's Big Boy restaurants have numerous competitors, including national chains, regional and local chains, as well as independent operators. None of these competitors, in the opinion of the Company’s management, presently dominates the family-style sector of the restaurant industry in any of the Company’s operating markets. That could change at any time due to: ·changes in economic conditions ·changes in demographics in neighborhoods where the Company operates restaurants ·changes in consumer perceptions of value, food and service quality ·changes in consumer preferences, particularly based on concerns with nutritional content of food on the Company’s menu ·new competitors enter the Company’s market from time to time ·increased competition from supermarkets and other non-traditional competitors ·increased completion for quality sites on which to build restaurants Development Plans and Financing Arrangements The Company’s business strategy and development plans also face risks and uncertainties. These include the inherent risk of poor quality decisions in the selection of sites on which to build restaurants, the rising cost and availability of desirable sites and increasingly rigorous requirements on the part of local governments to obtain various permits and licenses. Other factors that could impede plans to increase the number of restaurants operated by the Company include saturation in existing markets, limitations on borrowing capacity and the effects of increases in interest rates. In addition, the Company’s loan agreements include financial and other covenants with which compliance must be met or exceeded each quarter. Failure to meet these or other restrictions could result in an event of default under which the lender may accelerate any outstanding loan balances and declare them to be immediately due and payable. 13 The Supply and Cost of Food Food purchases can be subject to significant price fluctuations that can considerably affect results of operations from quarter to quarter and year to year. Price fluctuations can be due to seasonality or any number of factors, such as weather, foreign demand and demographic factors. The market for beef, in particular, continues to be highly volatile due in part to import and export restrictions. Beef costs can also be affected by bio-fuel initiatives and other factors that influence the cost to feed cattle. The Company depends on timely deliveries of perishable food and supplies. Any interruption in the continuing supply would harm the Company’s operations. Litigation and Negative Publicity Employees, customers and other parties bring various claims against the Company from time to time. Defending such claims can distract the attention of senior level management away from the operation of the business. Legal proceedings can result in significant adverse effects to the Company’s financial condition, especially if other potentially responsible parties lack the financial wherewithal to satisfy a judgment against them or the Company’s insurance coverage proves to be inadequate. Also, see “Legal Proceedings” elsewhere in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. Negative publicity associated with legal claims against the Company, especially those related to food safety issues, could harm the Company's reputation and brand (whether or not such complaints are valid), which, in turn, could adversely affect operating results. Publicity surrounding food safety issues has caused irreparable harm to the reputations of certain operators in the restaurant industry in the past. The Company’s reputation and brand can also be harmed by food safety issues and other operational problems that may be experienced by Frisch's Big Boy restaurants that the Company licenses to other operators, as well as Big Boy restaurants (non Frisch's) that are operated by others outside of the Company's territories or in the restaurant industry at large. Other negative publicity such as that arising from rumor and innuendo spread through social internet media and other sources can create adverse effects on the Company’s results of operations. Intellectual Property The Company's intellectual property, which includes its food recipes, is very important to the operation of the business and its competitive position in the marketplace. The Company protects these assets through a combination of federally registered trademarks and other trademark and service mark rights, and various other means. If the Company's efforts to protect its intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on the Company's intellectual property, the value of the Company's brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. Governmental and Other Rules and Regulations Governmental and other rules and regulations can pose significant risks to the Company. Examples include: ·general exposure to penalties or other costs associated with the potential for violations of numerous governmental regulations, include oimmigration (I-9) and labor regulations regarding the employment of minors ominimum wage and overtime requirements oemployment discrimination and sexual harassment ohealth, sanitation and safety regulations ofacility issues, such as meeting the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or liabilities to remedy unknown environmental conditions ·changes in existing environmental regulations that would significantly add to the Company’s costs ·any future imposition by OSHA of costly ergonomics regulations on workplace safety ·climate legislation that adversely affects the cost of energy ·compliance with the Food Modernization Act (enacted January 2011) 14 ·legislative or regulatory changes affecting labor law, especially the Fair Labor Standards Act, including overtime rules and increases in federal minimum wage requirements ·increases in state and local minimum wage requirements ·compliance with legislation enacted to reform the U.S. health care system could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s health care costs ·nutritional labeling on menus - compliance with legislation enacted to reform the U.S. health care system that requires nutritional labeling to be placed on menus and the Company’s reliance on the accuracy of certain information that may be obtained from third party suppliers. Potential adverse effect on sales and profitability if customer menu ordering choices should change. ·legislation or court rulings that result in changes to tax codes that are adverse to the Company ·changes in accounting standards imposed by governmental regulators or private governing bodies could adversely affect the Company’s financial position ·estimates used in preparing financial statements and the inherent risk that future events affecting them may cause actual results to differ markedly Catastrophic Events Unforeseen catastrophic events could disrupt the Company’s operations, the operations of the Company’s suppliers and the lives of the Company’s employees and customers. In particular, the dependency of the Company's restaurants on the commissary operation could present an extensive disruption of products to restaurants should a catastrophe impair its ability to operate. Examples of catastrophic events include but are not limited to: ·adverse winter weather conditions ·natural disasters such as earthquakes or tornadoes ·fires or explosions ·widespread power outages ·criminal acts, including bomb threats, robberies, hostage taking, kidnapping and other violent crimes ·acts of terrorists or acts of war ·civil disturbances and boycotts ·disease transmitted across borders that may enter the food supply chain Technology, Information Systems and Cyber Risks Technology and information systems are of vital importance to the strategic operation of the Company. Security violations such as unauthorized access to information systems, including breaches on third party servers, could result in the loss of proprietary data. Should consumer privacy be compromised, consumer confidence may be lost, which could adversely affect sales and profitability. To prevent credit card fraud, the Payment Card Security Standards Council requires an annual audit to certify the Company's compliance with the required internal controls of processing and storing of credit card data. A finding of non-compliance could restrict the Company's authorization to accept credit cards as a form of payment, which could adversely affect sales and profitability. Other events that could pose threats to the operation of the business include: ·catastrophic failure of certain information systems ·failures of the Company’s disaster recovery plan ·difficulties that may arise in maintaining existing systems ·difficulties that may occur in the implementation of and transition to new systems ·financial stability of vendors to support software over the long term 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 