Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company continually takes reasonable preventive measures to reduce its risks and uncertainties. However, the nature of some risks and uncertainties provides little, if any, control to the Company. The materialization of any of the operational and other risks and uncertainties identified herein, together with those risks not specifically listed or those that are presently unforeseen, could result in significant adverse effects on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows, which could include the permanent closure of any affected restaurant(s) with an impairment of assets charge taken against earnings, and could adversely affect the price at which shares of the Company’s common stock trade. In addition to operating results, other factors can influence the volatility and price at which the Company’s common stock trades. The Company’s stock is thinly traded on the NYSE Amex market. Thinly traded stocks can be susceptible to sudden, rapid declines in price, especially when holders of large blocks of shares seek exit positions. Rebalancing of stock indices in which the Company’s shares are placed such as the Russell 2000 Index can also influence the price of the Company’s stock. Food Safety Food safety is the most significant risk to any company that operates in the restaurant industry. It is the focus of increased government regulatory initiatives at the local, state and federal levels. To limit the Company’s exposure to the risk of food contamination, management rigorously emphasizes and enforces the Company’s food safety policies in all of the Company’s restaurants, and at the commissary and food manufacturing plant that the Company operates for Big Boy restaurants. These policies are designed to work cooperatively with programs established by health agencies at all levels of government authority, including the federal Hazard Analysis of Critical Control Points (HACCP) program. In addition, the Company makes use of ServSafe Training, a nationally recognized program developed by the National Restaurant Association. The ServSafe program provides accurate, up-to-date science-based information to all levels of restaurant workers on all aspects of food handling, from receiving and storing to preparing and serving. All restaurant managers are required to be certified in ServSafe Training and are required to be re-certified every five years. Failure to protect the Company’s food supplies could result in food borne illnesses and/or injuries to customers. Publicity of such events in the past has caused irreparable damages to the reputations of certain operators in the restaurant industry. If any of the Company’s customers become ill from consuming the Company’s products, the affected restaurants may be forced to close. An instance of food contamination originating at the commissary operation could have far reaching effects, as the contamination would affect substantially all Big Boy restaurants. Economic Factors Economic recessions can negatively influence discretionary consumer spending in restaurants and result in lower customer counts, as consumers become more price conscious, tending to conserve their cash as unemployment and economic uncertainty mount. The effects of higher gasoline prices can also negatively affect discretionary consumer spending in restaurants. Increasing costs for energy affect profit margins in many other ways. Petroleum based material is often used to package certain products for distribution. In addition, suppliers may add surcharges for fuel to their invoices. The cost to transport products from the commissary to restaurant operations will rise with each increase in fuel prices. Higher costs for electricity and natural gas result in higher costs to heat and cool restaurant facilities and to refrigerate and cook food. Inflationary pressure, particularly on food costs, labor costs (especially associated with increases in the minimum wage) and health care benefits, can negatively affect the operation of the business. Shortages of qualified labor are sometimes experienced in certain local economies. In addition, the loss of a key executive could pose a significant adverse effect on the Company. Future funding requirements of the two qualified defined benefit pension plans that are sponsored by the Company largely depend upon the performance of investments that are held in trusts that have been established for the plans. Equity securities comprise 70 percent of the target allocation of the plans’ assets. Poor performance in equity securities markets can significantly lower the market values of the plans’ investment portfolios, which, in turn, can result in a) material increases in future funding requirements, b) much higher net periodic pension costs to be 13 Table of Contents recognized in future years, and c) the plans reaching underfunded status, requiring reductions in the Company’s equity to be recognized. Competition The restaurant industry is highly competitive and many of the Company’s competitors are substantially larger and possess greater financial resources than does the Company. Both the Big Boy and Golden Corral operating segments have numerous competitors, including national chains, regional and local chains, as well as independent operators. None of these competitors, in the opinion of the Company’s management, presently dominates the family-style sector of the restaurant industry in any of the Company’s operating markets. That could change at any time due to: • changes in economic conditions • changes in demographics in neighborhoods where the Company operates restaurants • changes in consumer perceptions of value, food and service quality • changes in consumer preferences, particularly based on concerns with nutritional content of food on the Company’s menus • new competitors that enter the Company’s markets from time to time • increased competition from supermarkets and other non-traditional competitors • increased competition for quality sites on which to build restaurants Development Plans and Financing Arrangements The Company’s business strategy and development plans also face risks and uncertainties. These include the inherent risk of poor quality decisions in the selection of sites on which to build restaurants, the ever rising cost and availability of desirable sites and increasingly rigorous requirements on the part of local governments to obtain various permits and licenses. Other factors that could impede plans to increase the number of restaurants operated by the Company include saturation in existing markets and limitations on borrowing capacity and the effects of higher interest rates. In addition, the Company’s loan agreements include financial and other covenants with which compliance must be met or exceeded each quarter. Failure to meet these or other restrictions could result in an event of default under which the lender may accelerate the outstanding loan balances and declare them immediately due and payable. The Supply and Cost of Food Food purchases can be subject to significant price fluctuations that can considerably affect results of operations from quarter to quarter and year to year. Price fluctuations can be due to seasonality or any number of factors. The market for beef, in particular, continues to be highly volatile due to import and export restrictions. Beef costs can also be affected by bio-fuel initiatives and other factors that influence the cost to feed cattle. The Company depends on timely deliveries of perishable food and supplies. Any interruption in the continuing supply would harm the Company’s operations. Litigation and Negative Publicity Employees, customers and other parties bring various claims against the Company from time to time. Defending such claims can distract the attention of senior level management away from the operation of the business. Legal proceedings can result in significant adverse effects to the Company’s financial condition, especially if other potentially responsible parties lack the financial wherewithal to satisfy a judgment against them or the Company’s insurance coverage proves to be inadequate. Also, see “Legal Proceedings” elsewhere in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. In addition, negative publicity associated with legal claims against the Company, whether or not such complaints are valid, could harm the Company’s reputation, which, in turn, could adversely affect operating results. The Company’s reputation and brand can also be harmed by operational problems experienced by other operators of Big Boy and Golden Corral restaurants, especially from issues relating to food safety. Other negative publicity such as 14 Table of Contents that arising from rumor and innuendo spread through social internet media and other sources can create adverse effects on the Company’s results of operations. Governmental and Other Rules and Regulations Governmental and other rules and regulations can pose significant risks to the Company. Examples include: • general exposure to penalties or other costs associated with the potential for violations of numerous governmental regulations, including: • immigration (I-9) and labor regulations regarding the employment of minors • minimum wage and overtime requirements • employment discrimination and sexual harassment • health, sanitation and safety regulations • restaurant facility issues, such as meeting the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or liabilities to remediate unknown environmental conditions • changes in existing environmental regulations that would significantly add to the Company’s costs • any future imposition by OSHA of costly ergonomics regulations on workplace safety • climate change legislation that adversely affects the cost of energy • legislative changes affecting labor law, especially increases in the federal or state minimum wage requirements • compliance with recently enacted legislation to reform the U.S. health care system could adversely affect the Company’s health care costs • nutritional labeling on menus - compliance with recently enacted legislation requiring nutritional labeling on menus and the Company’s reliance on the accuracy of information obtained from third party suppliers • nutritional labeling on menus – potential effect on sales and profitability if customers’ buying habits change • legislation or court rulings that result in changes to tax codes that are adverse to the Company • changes in accounting standards imposed by governmental regulators or private governing bodies could adversely affect the Company’s financial position • estimates used in preparing financial statements and the inherent risk that future events affecting them may cause actual results to differ markedly Catastrophic Events Unforeseen catastrophic events could disrupt the Company’s operations, the operations of the Company’s suppliers and the lives of the Company’s customers. The Big Boy segment’s dependency on the commissary operation in particular could present an extensive disruption of products to restaurants should a catastrophe impair its ability to operate. Examples of catastrophic events include but are not limited to: • adverse winter weather conditions • natural disasters such as earthquakes or tornadoes • fires or explosions • widespread power outages • criminal acts, including bomb threats, robberies, hostage taking, kidnapping and other violent crimes • acts of terrorists or acts of war • civil disturbances and boycotts • disease transmitted across borders that may enter the food supply chain Technology and Information Systems The strategic nature of technology and information systems is of vital importance to the operations of the Company. Events that could pose threats to the operation of the business include: • catastrophic failure of certain information systems • difficulties that may arise in maintaining existing systems 15 Table of Contents • difficulties that may occur in the implementation of and transition to new systems • financial stability of vendors to support software over the long term In addition, security violations of any unauthorized access to information systems could result in the loss of proprietary data; consumer confidence may be lost if protection of consumer privacy should be compromised. Golden Corral Operations Notwithstanding significant improvements during fiscal years 2009 and 2010, Golden Corral same-store sales declines have been experienced for 21 of the last 27 quarters, during which cash flows from Golden Corral operations have sometimes deteriorated. The ability of the Company to reverse the downturn and permanently restore sales and margin growth poses a significant risk to the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 