Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company continually takes reasonable preventive measures to reduce its risks and uncertainties. However, the nature of some risks and uncertainties provides little control to the Company. The materialization of any of the risks and uncertainties identified herein, together with those risks not specifically listed or those that are presently unforeseen, could result in significant adverse effects on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows, which could include the permanent closure of any affected restaurant(s) with an impairment of assets charge taken against earnings, and could adversely affect the price at which shares of the Company’s common stock trade. Food Safety Food safety is the most significant risk to any company that operates in the restaurant industry. It is the focus of increased government regulatory initiatives at the local, state and federal levels. To limit the Company’s exposure to the risk of food contamination, management rigorously emphasizes and enforces the Company’s food safety policies in all of the Company’s restaurants, and at the commissary and food manufacturing plant that the Company operates for Big Boy restaurants. These policies are designed to work cooperatively with programs established by health agencies at all levels of government authority, including the federal Hazard Analysis of Critical Control Points (HACCP) program. In addition, the Company makes use of ServSafe Training, a nationally recognized program developed by the National Restaurant Association. The ServSafe program provides accurate, up-to-date science-based information to all levels of restaurant workers on all aspects of food handling, from receiving and storing to preparing and serving. All restaurant managers are required to be certified in ServSafe Training and are required to be re-certified every five years. Failure to protect the Company’s food supplies could result in food borne illnesses and/or injuries to customers. Publicity of such events in the past has caused irreparable damages to the reputations of certain operators in the restaurant industry. If any of the Company’s customers become ill from consuming the Company’s products, the affected restaurants may be forced to close. An instance of food contamination originating at the commissary operation could have far reaching effects as the contamination would affect substantially all Big Boy restaurants. Economic Factors The Company’s operations are predominantly located in Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky, where consumer confidence remains weakened by a soft economy and the steep cost of gasoline. The effects of higher gasoline prices in particular may impact discretionary consumer spending in restaurants. The Company’s costs are also affected by increasing energy prices. Petroleum based material is often used to package certain products for distribution. The cost to transport products from the commissary to restaurant operations will rise with each increase in gasoline prices. Higher natural gas prices have resulted in much higher costs to heat restaurant facilities and to cook food. Inflationary pressure, especially on food costs, labor costs and health care benefits, can also negatively impact the operation of the business. Shortages of qualified labor may also be experienced in certain local economies. In addition, the loss of a key executive could pose a significant adverse effect on the Company. Competition The restaurant industry is highly competitive and many of the Company’s competitors are substantially larger and possess greater financial resources than does the Company. Both the Big Boy and Golden Corral operating segments have numerous competitors, including national chains, regional and local chains, as well as independent operators. None of these competitors, in the opinion of the Company, presently dominate the family-style sector of the restaurant industry in the Company’s operating markets. That could change at any time due to changes in: • economic conditions, • changing demographics in neighborhoods where the Company operates restaurants • consumer perceptions of value, food and service quality • consumer preferences, particularly based on concerns with nutritional content of food on the Company’s menus 10 Table of Contents • new competitors enter the Company’s markets from time to time • competition continues to increase from supermarkets and other non-traditional competitors • competition continues to increase for quality sites on which to build restaurants Development Plans The Company’s business strategy and development plans also face risks and uncertainties. These include the inherent risk of poor management decisions in the selection of sites on which to build restaurants, the ever rising cost and availability of desirable sites and increasingly rigorous requirements on the part of local governments to obtain various permits and licenses. Other factors that could impede plans to increase the number of restaurants operated by the Company include saturation in existing markets and limitations on borrowing capacity and the effects of higher interest rates. The Supply and Cost of Food Food purchases can be subject to significant price fluctuations that can considerably impact results of operations from quarter to quarter. Price fluctuations can be due to seasonality or any number of factors. The market for beef, in particular, continues to be highly volatile due in part to import and export restrictions. The Company depends on timely deliveries of perishable food and supplies. Any interruption in the continuing supply would harm the Company’s operations. Litigation Employees, customers and other parties bring various claims against the Company from time to time. Defending such claims can distract the attention of senior level management away from the operation of the business. In addition, negative publicity that may be associated with any significant judgment against the Company in the future could harm the Company’s reputation and adversely affect operating results. Governmental and Other Rules and Regulations Governmental and other rules and regulations can pose significant risks to the Company. Examples include: • changes in environmental regulations that would significantly add to the Company’s costs • exposure to penalties for potential violations of numerous governmental regulations in general, and immigration (I-9) and minor labor regulations in particular • any future imposition by OSHA of costly ergonomics regulations on workplace safety • legislative changes affecting labor law, especially increases in the federal or state minimum wage requirements • legislation or court rulings that result in changes to tax codes that are adverse to the Company • changes in accounting standards imposed by governmental regulators or private governing bodies could adversely affect the Company’s financial position • estimates used in preparing financial statements and the inherent risk that future events affecting them may cause actual results to differ markedly; Catastrophic Events Unforeseen catastrophic events could disrupt the Company’s operations, the operations of the Company’s suppliers and the lives of customers. Such events include but are not limited to: • adverse winter weather conditions • natural disasters such as earthquakes or tornadoes • fires or explosions • criminal acts, including bomb threats, robberies, hostage taking, kidnapping and other violent crimes • acts of terrorists or acts of war • civil disturbances and boycotts • disease transmitted across borders that may enter the food supply chain 11 Table of Contents Golden Corral Operations The Company plans to continue expanding its Golden Corral operations. However, lower than expected revenue from the operation of Golden Corral restaurants has resulted in the Company’s decision to temporarily slow down expansion plans. Golden Corral same-store sales declines have been experienced for eleven consecutive quarters. During the fiscal year ended May 30, 2006, three Golden Corrals experienced negative cash flow. Three other restaurants had marginally positive cash flows during the fiscal year ended May 30, 2006. The ability of the Company to identify the root cause of the downturn, thereby allowing corrective measures to be set in place, being critical to the restoration of sales and margin growth, poses a significant risk to the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 