Item 1A. Risk Factors Lead time and the cost of our products could increase if we were to lose one of our primary suppliers. Historically, we have been dependent on NSC for our supply of coil inventory and on USS for our supply of coil material used in pipe manufacturing. While current levels are adequate to sustain our coil operations, a reduction in the supply of steel coils could have an adverse effect on our coil operations. Historically, USS has been our primary supplier of tubular products. From February 2009 until February 2010, we received a significantly reduced supply of material from USS. This reduction in the supply of tubular products and coil material used in our tubular operations from USS has had an adverse effect on our tubular operations. Since February 2010, we have experienced an increase in the supply of material from USS. The Company can make no assurances as to the amounts of pipe and coil material that will be available from USS in the future. If, for any reason, NSC should curtail or discontinue deliveries of coil inventory to us in quantities we need and at prices that are competitive, our business could be negatively impacted. Also, if a reduction in the supply by USS of material used in the manufacture of tubular products should continue for a prolonged period or USS should discontinue such deliveries completely, the negative impact on our business could be significant. If, in the future, we are unable for a prolonged period to obtain sufficient amounts of the necessary metals at competitive prices and on a timely basis from our traditional suppliers, we may not be able to obtain such metals from alternative sources at competitive prices to meet our delivery schedules, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future operating results may be affected if we were to lose one of our significant customers. In fiscal 2011 and 2010, sales of pipe to USS accounted for approximately 20% and 4%, respectively, of the Company’s total sales. In February 2009, USS announced that it was temporarily idling its plant in Lone Star, Texas, due to weak market conditions. From February 2009 until February 2010, the Company received few orders from USS. These circumstances had an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Since February 2010, the Company has experienced an increase in orders from USS. A prolonged reduction in sales to USS or the permanent loss of USS as a customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Our future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in raw material prices. We may not be able to pass on increases in raw material costs to our customers. Our principal raw materials are tubular products and steel coils, which we purchase from a limited number of primary steel producers. The steel industry as a whole is very cyclical, and at times pricing can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect our steel costs. We are required to maintain substantial inventories to accommodate the short lead times and just-in-time delivery requirements of our customers. Accordingly, we purchase raw materials on a regular basis in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe are sufficient to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon historic buying practices and market conditions. In an environment of increasing raw material prices, competitive conditions will impact how much of the steel 4 Table of Contents price increases we can pass on to our customers. To the extent we are unable to pass on future price increases in our raw materials to our customers, the profitability of our business could be adversely affected. Our business is highly competitive, and increased competition could reduce our gross profit and net income. The principal markets that we serve are highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on the precision and range of achievable tolerances, quality, price, raw materials and inventory availability and the ability to meet delivery schedules dictated by customers. Our competition in the markets in which we participate comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do and some of which have more established brand names in the markets we serve. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our gross profit, net income and cash flows. We are susceptible to the cyclicality of the steel industry. The steel industry is very cyclical and is affected significantly by general economic conditions and other factors such as worldwide production capacity, fluctuations in steel imports/exports and tariffs. Steel prices are sensitive to a number of supply and demand factors. The downturn in the U.S. economy in fiscal 2010 had an adverse effect on the U.S. steel industry and on our business. The prolonged duration of these conditions and any future downturns in the industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to manage and integrate future capital expansions successfully. We have in the past and may in the future expand our existing facilities and equipment through acquisitions and capital improvements. Expansion presents risks and requires that we expend both capital and personnel resources on such expansions, which may or may not be successful. Equipment downtime or shutdowns could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Steel manufacturing processes are dependent on critical equipment. Such equipment may incur downtime as a result of unanticipated failures or other events, such as fires or breakdowns. Our facilities have experienced, and may in the future experience, shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures or other events. Such disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations, customer service levels and financial results. Increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs, and we may be unable to pass all of these increases on to our customers in the form of higher prices for our products. We use energy to manufacture and transport our products. Our operating costs increase if energy costs rise. We do not hedge our exposure to higher prices via energy futures contracts. Increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs and may reduce our profitability and cash flows if we are unable to pass all of the increases on to our customers. Steel companies are susceptible to changes in governmental policies and international economic conditions. Governmental, political and economic developments relating to inflation, interest rates, taxation, currency fluctuations, social or political instability, diplomatic relations, international conflicts and other factors may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Steel companies are subject to stringent environmental regulations, and we may be required to spend considerable funds in order to comply with such regulations. We are subject to a broad range of environmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations, as interpreted by relevant agencies and the courts, impose increasingly stringent environmental protection standards regarding, among other things, air emissions, 5 Table of Contents wastewater storage, treatment and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices and the remediation of environmental contamination. The costs of complying with environmental requirements could be significant and failure to comply could result in the assessment of civil and criminal penalties, the suspension of operations and lawsuits by private parties. In addition, these standards can create the risk of environmental liabilities, including liabilities associated with divested assets and past activities. Durable goods account for a significant portion of our sales, and reduced demand from this sector of the U.S. economy is likely to adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. Downturns in demand for durable goods, or a decrease in the prices that we can realize from sales of our products to customers associated with this sector of the economy, would adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. Competition from other materials may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In many applications, steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum, cement, composites, glass, plastic and wood. Additional substitutes for steel products could adversely affect future market prices and demand for steel products. Product liability claims could adversely affect our operations. We sell products to manufacturers who are engaged in selling a wide range of end products. Furthermore, our products are also sold to, and used in, certain safety-critical applications. If we were to sell steel products that were inconsistent with the specifications of the order or the requirements of the application, significant disruptions to the customer’s production lines could result. There could also be consequential damages resulting from the use of such products. We have a limited amount of product liability insurance coverage, and a major claim for damages related to products sold could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our common stock is subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, quarterly operating results, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may discourage a third party from making a takeover proposal. Our articles of incorporation provide that the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of all of our outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote in elections of directors is required for a merger or consolidation of the Company with and into any other corporation or the sale, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of our assets. This may have the effect of discouraging a takeover proposal or tender offer not approved by management and the board of directors and could result in shareholders who may wish to participate in such a proposal or tender offer receiving less for their shares than otherwise might be available in the event of a takeover attempt. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not required. 6 Table of Contents 