Item 1A. Risk Factors and the section captioned “Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that Could Affect Future Results” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report and other cautionary statements set forth elsewhere in this report. The Corporation Cullen/Frost Bankers, Inc. (“Cullen/Frost”), a Texas business corporation incorporated in 1977, is a financial holding company and a bank holding company headquartered in San Antonio, Texas that provides, through its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Corporation”), a broad array of products and services throughout numerous Texas markets. The Corporation offers commercial and consumer banking services, as well as trust and investment management, investment banking, insurance, brokerage, leasing, asset-based lending, treasury management and item processing services. At December 31, 2007, Cullen/Frost had consolidated total assets of $13.5 billion and was one of the largest independent bank holding companies headquartered in the State of Texas. The Corporation’s philosophy is to grow and prosper, building long-term relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards, and safe, sound assets. The Corporation operates as a locally oriented, community-based financial services organization, augmented by experienced, centralized support in select critical areas. The Corporation’s local market orientation is reflected in its regional management and regional advisory boards, which are comprised of local business persons, professionals and other community representatives, that assist the Corporation’s regional management in responding to local banking needs. Despite this local market, community-based focus, the Corporation offers many of the products available at much larger money-center financial institutions. The Corporation serves a wide variety of industries including, among others, energy, manufacturing, services, construction, retail, telecommunications, healthcare, military and transportation. The Corporation’s customer base is similarly diverse. The Corporation is not dependent upon any single industry or customer. The Corporation’s operating objectives include expansion, diversification within its markets, growth of its fee-based income, and growth internally and through acquisitions of financial institutions, branches and financial services businesses. The Corporation seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale and expanded services. The Corporation regularly evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Corporation’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. During 2007, the Corporation acquired Prime Benefits, Inc. (Austin market area), an independent insurance agency that specializes in providing employee benefits to businesses. During 2006, the Corporation acquired Texas Community Bancshares, Inc. (Dallas market area), Alamo Corporation of Texas (Rio Grande Valley market area) and Summit Bancshares, Inc. (Ft. Worth market area). During 2005, the Corporation acquired Horizon Capital Bank (Houston market area). Details of these transactions are presented in Note 2 — Mergers and Acquisitions in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is located elsewhere in this report. Although Cullen/Frost is a corporate entity, legally separate and distinct from its affiliates, bank holding companies such as Cullen/Frost are generally required to act as a source of financial strength for their subsidiary banks. The principal source of Cullen/Frost’s income is dividends from its subsidiaries. There are certain regulatory restrictions on the extent to which these subsidiaries can pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to Cullen/Frost. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” for further discussion of these matters. 3 Table of Contents Cullen/Frost’s executive offices are located at 100 W. Houston Street, San Antonio, Texas 78205, and its telephone number is (210) 220-4011. Subsidiaries of Cullen/Frost The New Galveston Company Incorporated under the laws of Delaware, The New Galveston Company is a wholly owned second-tier financial holding company and bank holding company, which directly owns all of Cullen/Frost’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries with the exception of Cullen/Frost Capital Trust II, Alamo Corporation of Texas Trust I and Summit Bancshares Statutory Trust I. Cullen/Frost Capital Trust II, Alamo Corporation of Texas Trust I and Summit Bancshares Statutory Trust I Cullen/Frost Capital Trust II (“Trust II”) is a Delaware statutory business trust formed in 2004 for the purpose of issuing $120.0 million in trust preferred securities and lending the proceeds to Cullen/Frost. Alamo Corporation of Texas Trust I (“Alamo Trust”) is a Delaware statutory trust formed in 2002 for the purpose of issuing $3.0 million in trust preferred securities. Cullen/Frost acquired Alamo Trust through the acquisition of Alamo Corporation of Texas on February 28, 2006. Summit Bancshares Statutory Trust I (“Summit Trust”) is a Delaware statutory trust formed in 2004 for the purpose of issuing $12.0 million in trust preferred securities. Summit Trust was acquired by Cullen/Frost through the acquisition of Summit Bancshares on December 8, 2006. Cullen/Frost guarantees, on a limited basis, payments of distributions on the trust preferred securities and payments on redemption of the trust preferred securities. Trust II, Alamo Trust and Summit Trust (collectively referred to as the “Capital Trusts”) are variable interest entities (VIEs) for which the Corporation is not the primary beneficiary, as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (“FIN”) No. 46 “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (Revised December 2003).” In accordance with FIN 46R, the accounts of the Capital Trusts are not included in the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements. See the Corporation’s accounting policy related to consolidation in Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is located elsewhere in this report. Despite the fact that the accounts of the Capital Trusts are not included in the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements, the $135.0 million in trust preferred securities issued by these subsidiary trusts are included in the Tier 1 capital of Cullen/Frost for regulatory capital purposes as allowed by the Federal Reserve Board. In February 2005, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule that allows the continued inclusion of trust preferred securities in the Tier 1 capital of bank holding companies. The Board’s final rule limits the aggregate amount of restricted core capital elements (which includes trust preferred securities, among other things) that may be included in the Tier 1 capital of most bank holding companies to 25% of all core capital elements, including restricted core capital elements, net of goodwill less any associated deferred tax liability. Large, internationally active bank holding companies (as defined) are subject to a 15% limitation. Amounts of restricted core capital elements in excess of these limits generally may be included in Tier 2 capital. The final rule provides a five-year transition period, ending March 31, 2009, for application of the quantitative limits. The Corporation does not expect that the quantitative limits will preclude it from including the $135.0 million in trust preferred securities in Tier 1 capital. However, the trust preferred securities could be redeemed without penalty if they were no longer permitted to be included in Tier 1 capital. On January 7, 2008, the Corporation redeemed $3.1 million of floating rate (three-month LIBOR plus a margin of 3.30%) junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures, due January 7, 2033, held of record by Alamo Trust. Concurrently, the $3.0 million of floating rate (three-month LIBOR plus a margin of 3.30%) trust preferred securities issued by Alamo Trust were also redeemed. On February 21, 2007, the Corporation redeemed $103.1 million of 8.42% junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures, Series A due February 1, 2027, held of record by Cullen/Frost Capital Trust I, a prior Delaware statutory business trust wholly-owned by the Corporation. As a result of the redemption, the Corporation incurred $5.3 million in expense during the first quarter of 2007 related to a prepayment penalty and the write-off of the unamortized debt issuance costs. 4 Table of Contents Concurrently, the $100 million of 8.42% trust preferred securities issued by Cullen/Frost Capital Trust I were also redeemed. See Note 9 — Borrowed Funds and Note 12 — Regulatory Matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is located elsewhere in this report. The Frost National Bank The Frost National Bank (“Frost Bank”) is primarily engaged in the business of commercial and consumer banking through more than 100 financial centers across Texas in the Austin, Corpus Christi, Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston, Rio Grande Valley and San Antonio regions. Frost Bank was chartered as a national banking association in 1899, but its origin can be traced to a mercantile partnership organized in 1868. At December 31, 2007, Frost Bank had consolidated total assets of $13.5 billion and total deposits of $10.5 billion and was one of the largest commercial banks headquartered in the State of Texas. Significant services offered by Frost Bank include: • Commercial Banking. Frost Bank provides commercial banking services to corporations and other business clients. Loans are made for a wide variety of general corporate purposes, including financing for industrial and commercial properties and to a lesser extent, financing for interim construction related to industrial and commercial properties, financing for equipment, inventories and accounts receivable, and acquisition financing, as well as commercial leasing and treasury management services. • Consumer Services. Frost Bank provides a full range of consumer banking services, including checking accounts, savings programs, automated teller machines, overdraft facilities, installment and real estate loans, home equity loans and lines of credit, drive-in and night deposit services, safe deposit facilities, and brokerage services. • International Banking. Frost Bank provides international banking services to customers residing in or dealing with businesses located in Mexico. These services consist of accepting deposits (generally only in U.S. dollars), making loans (in U.S. dollars only), issuing letters of credit, handling foreign collections, transmitting funds, and to a limited extent, dealing in foreign exchange. • Correspondent Banking. Frost Bank acts as correspondent for approximately 300 financial institutions, which are primarily banks in Texas. These banks maintain deposits with Frost Bank, which offers them a full range of services including check clearing, transfer of funds, fixed income security services, and securities custody and clearance services. • Trust Services. Frost Bank provides a wide range of trust, investment, agency and custodial services for individual and corporate clients. These services include the administration of estates and personal trusts, as well as the management of investment accounts for individuals, employee benefit plans and charitable foundations. At December 31, 2007, the estimated fair value of trust assets was $24.8 billion, including managed assets of $10.5 billion and custody assets of $14.3 billion. • Capital Markets — Fixed-Income Services. Frost Bank’s Capital Markets Division was formed to meet the transaction needs of fixed-income institutional investors. Services include sales and trading, new issue underwriting, money market trading, and securities safekeeping and clearance. Frost Insurance Agency, Inc. Frost Insurance Agency, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Frost Bank that provides insurance brokerage services to individuals and businesses covering corporate and personal property and casualty insurance products, as well as group health and life insurance products. Frost Brokerage Services, Inc. Frost Brokerage Services, Inc. (“FBS”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Frost Bank that provides brokerage services and performs other transactions or operations related to the sale and purchase of securities of all types. FBS 5 Table of Contents is registered as a fully disclosed introducing broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, as such, does not hold any customer accounts. Frost Premium Finance Corporation Frost Premium Finance Corporation is a wholly owned subsidiary of Frost Bank that makes loans to qualified borrowers for the purpose of financing their purchase of property and casualty insurance. Frost Securities, Inc. Frost Securities, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary that provides advisory and private equity services to middle market companies in Texas. Main Plaza Corporation Main Plaza Corporation is a wholly owned non-banking subsidiary that occasionally makes loans to qualified borrowers. Loans are funded with current cash or borrowings against internal credit lines. Daltex General Agency, Inc. Daltex General Agency, Inc. is a wholly owned non-banking subsidiary that operates as a managing general insurance agency providing insurance on certain auto loans financed by Frost Bank. Other Subsidiaries Cullen/Frost has various other subsidiaries that are not significant to the consolidated entity. Operating Segments Cullen/Frost’s operations are managed along two reportable operating segments consisting of Banking and the Financial Management Group. See the sections captioned “Results of Segment Operations” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 19 — Operating Segments in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which are located elsewhere in this report. Competition There is significant competition among commercial banks in the Corporation’s market areas. As a result of the deregulation of the financial services industry (see the discussion of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 in the section of this item captioned “Supervision and Regulation”), the Corporation also competes with other providers of financial services, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, insurance agencies, commercial finance and leasing companies, full service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms. Some of the Corporation’s competitors have greater resources and, as such, may have higher lending limits and may offer other services that are not provided by the Corporation. The Corporation generally competes on the basis of customer service and responsiveness to customer needs, available loan and deposit products, the rates of interest charged on loans, the rates of interest paid for funds, and the availability and pricing of trust, brokerage and insurance services. Supervision and Regulation Cullen/Frost, Frost Bank and many of its non-banking subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws. The regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole and not for the protection of security holders. Set forth below is a description of the significant elements of the laws and regulations applicable to Cullen/Frost and its subsidiaries. The description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations and policies that are described. Also, such statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review 6 Table of Contents by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to Cullen/Frost and its subsidiaries could have a material effect on the business of the Corporation. Regulatory Agencies Cullen/Frost is a legal entity separate and distinct from Frost Bank and its other subsidiaries. As a financial holding company and a bank holding company, Cullen/Frost is regulated under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHC Act”), and is subject to inspection, examination and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”). Cullen/Frost is also under the jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and is subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as administered by the SEC. Cullen/Frost is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the trading symbol “CFR,” and is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed companies. Frost Bank is organized as a national banking association under the National Bank Act. It is subject to regulation and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). Many of the Corporation’s non-bank subsidiaries also are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board and other federal and state agencies. Frost Securities, Inc. and Frost Brokerage Services, Inc. are regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and state securities regulators. The Corporation’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by applicable state insurance regulatory agencies. Other non-bank subsidiaries are subject to both federal and state laws and regulations. Bank Holding Company Activities In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks and other activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. As a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 (“GLB Act”), which amended the BHC Act, bank holding companies that are financial holding companies may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve Board in consultation with the OCC) or (ii) complementary to a financial activity, and that does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve Board). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments. If a bank holding company seeks to engage in the broader range of activities that are permitted under the BHC Act for financial holding companies, (i) all of its depository institution subsidiaries must be “well capitalized” and “well managed” and (ii) it must file a declaration with the Federal Reserve Board that it elects to be a “financial holding company.” A depository institution subsidiary is considered to be “well capitalized” if it satisfies the requirements for this status discussed in the section captioned “Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action,” included elsewhere in this item. A depository institution subsidiary is considered “well managed” if it received a composite rating and management rating of at least “satisfactory” in its most recent examination. Cullen/Frost’s declaration to become a financial holding company was declared effective by the Federal Reserve Board on March 11, 2000. In order for a financial holding company to commence any new activity permitted by the BHC Act, or to acquire a company engaged in any new activity permitted by the BHC Act, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must have received a rating of at least “satisfactory” in its most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act. See the section captioned “Community Reinvestment Act” included elsewhere in this item. The BHC Act generally limits acquisitions by bank holding companies that are not qualified as financial holding companies to commercial banks and companies engaged in activities that the Federal Reserve Board has 7 Table of Contents determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. Financial holding companies like Cullen/Frost are also permitted to acquire companies engaged in activities that are financial in nature and in activities that are incidental and complementary to financial activities without prior Federal Reserve Board approval. The BHC Act, the Federal Bank Merger Act, the Texas Banking Code and other federal and state statutes regulate acquisitions of commercial banks. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board for the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 5.0% of the voting shares of a commercial bank or its parent holding company. Under the Federal Bank Merger Act, the prior approval of the OCC is required for a national bank to merge with another bank or purchase the assets or assume the deposits of another bank. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger and acquisition transactions, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position of the combined organization, the applicant’s performance record under the Community Reinvestment Act (see the section captioned “Community Reinvestment Act” included elsewhere in this item) and fair housing laws and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. Dividends The principal source of Cullen/Frost’s cash revenues is dividends from Frost Bank. The prior approval of the OCC is required if the total of all dividends declared by a national bank in any calendar year would exceed the sum of the bank’s net profits for that year and its retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to surplus. Federal law also prohibits national banks from paying dividends that would be greater than the bank’s undivided profits after deducting statutory bad debt in excess of the bank’s allowance for loan losses. Under the foregoing dividend restrictions, and without adversely affecting its “well capitalized” status, Frost Bank could pay aggregate dividends of approximately $189.2 million to Cullen/Frost, without obtaining affirmative governmental approvals, at December 31, 2007. This amount is not necessarily indicative of amounts that may be paid or available to be paid in future periods. In addition, Cullen/Frost and Frost Bank are subject to other regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain adequate capital above regulatory minimums. The appropriate federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank holding company or a bank that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. The appropriate federal regulatory authorities have indicated that paying dividends that deplete a bank’s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice and that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. Borrowings There are various restrictions on the ability of Cullen/Frost and its non-bank subsidiaries to borrow from, and engage in certain other transactions with, Frost Bank. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and are limited, as to any one of Cullen/Frost or its non-bank subsidiaries, to 10% of Frost Bank’s capital stock and surplus, and, as to Cullen/Frost and all such non-bank subsidiaries in the aggregate, to 20% of Frost Bank’s capital stock and surplus. Federal law also provides that extensions of credit and other transactions between Frost Bank and Cullen/Frost or one of its non-bank subsidiaries must be on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that are substantially the same or at least as favorable to Frost Bank as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies or, in the absence of comparable transactions, on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies. Source of Strength Doctrine Federal Reserve Board policy requires bank holding companies to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. Under this policy, Cullen/Frost is expected to commit resources to support Frost Bank, including at times when Cullen/Frost may not be in a financial position to provide such resources. Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and 8 Table of Contents to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. The BHC Act provides that, in the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of Frost Bank is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon Cullen/Frost. If the assessment is not paid within three months, the OCC could order a sale of the Frost Bank stock held by Cullen/Frost to make good the deficiency. Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action Banks and bank holding companies are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by state and federal banking agencies. Capital adequacy guidelines and, additionally for banks, prompt corrective action regulations, involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance-sheet items calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weighting and other factors. The Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC have substantially similar risk-based capital ratio and leverage ratio guidelines for banking organizations. The guidelines are intended to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels of assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Under the guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain minimum ratios for Tier 1 capital and total capital to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as letters of credit). For purposes of calculating the ratios, a banking organization’s assets and some of its specified off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are assigned to various risk categories. A depository institution’s or holding company’s capital, in turn, is classified in one of three tiers, depending on type: • Core Capital (Tier 1). Tier 1 capital includes common equity, retained earnings, qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual stock at the holding company level, minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, qualifying trust preferred securities, less goodwill, most intangible assets and certain other assets. • Supplementary Capital (Tier 2). Tier 2 capital includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock and trust preferred securities not meeting the Tier 1 definition, qualifying mandatory convertible debt securities, qualifying subordinated debt, and allowances for possible loan and lease losses, subject to limitations. • Market Risk Capital (Tier 3). Tier 3 capital includes qualifying unsecured subordinated debt. Cullen/Frost, like other bank holding companies, currently is required to maintain Tier 1 capital and “total capital” (the sum of Tier 1, Tier 2 and Tier 3 capital) equal to at least 4.0% and 8.0%, respectively, of its total risk-weighted assets (including various off-balance-sheet items, such as letters of credit). Frost Bank, like other depository institutions, is required to maintain similar capital levels under capital adequacy guidelines. For a depository institution to be considered “well capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, its Tier 1 and total capital ratios must be at least 6.0% and 10.0% on a risk-adjusted basis, respectively. Bank holding companies and banks subject to the market risk capital guidelines are required to incorporate market and interest rate risk components into their risk-based capital standards. Under the market risk capital guidelines, capital is allocated to support the amount of market risk related to a financial institution’s ongoing trading activities. Bank holding companies and banks are also required to comply with minimum leverage ratio requirements. The leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization’s Tier 1 capital to its total adjusted quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes). The requirements necessitate a minimum leverage ratio of 3.0% for financial holding companies and national banks that either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the appropriate federal regulatory authority’s risk-adjusted measure for market risk. All other financial holding companies and national banks are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%, unless a different minimum is specified by an appropriate regulatory authority. For a depository institution to be considered “well 9 Table of Contents capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, its leverage ratio must be at least 5.0%. The Federal Reserve Board has not advised Cullen/Frost, and the OCC has not advised Frost Bank, of any specific minimum leverage ratio applicable to it. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (“FDIA”), requires among other things, the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDIA sets forth the following five capital tiers: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital tier will depend upon how its capital levels compare with various relevant capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. The relevant capital measures are the total capital ratio, the Tier 1 capital ratio and the leverage ratio. Under the regulations adopted by the federal regulatory authorities, a bank will be: (i) “well capitalized” if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and is not subject to any order or written directive by any such regulatory authority to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure; (ii) “adequately capitalized” if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 4.0% or greater and is not “well capitalized”; (iii) “undercapitalized” if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0% or a leverage ratio of less than 4.0%; (iv) “significantly undercapitalized” if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3.0% or a leverage ratio of less than 3.0%; and (v) “critically undercapitalized” if the institution’s tangible equity is equal to or less than 2.0% of average quarterly tangible assets. An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters. Cullen/Frost believes that, as of December 31, 2007, its bank subsidiary, Frost Bank, was “well capitalized,” based on the ratios and guidelines described above. A bank’s capital category is determined solely for the purpose of applying prompt corrective action regulations, and the capital category may not constitute an accurate representation of the bank’s overall financial condition or prospects for other purposes. The FDIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distributions (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be “undercapitalized.” “Undercapitalized” institutions are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. The agencies may not accept such a plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution’s capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the depository institution’s parent holding company must guarantee that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company is limited to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5.0% of the depository institution’s total assets at the time it became undercapitalized and (ii) the amount which is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is “significantly undercapitalized.” “Significantly undercapitalized” depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become “adequately capitalized,” requirements to reduce total assets, and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. “Critically undercapitalized” institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator. For information regarding the capital ratios and leverage ratio of Cullen/Frost and Frost Bank see the discussion under the section captioned “Capital and Liquidity” included in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 12 — Regulatory Matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, elsewhere in this report. The federal regulatory authorities’ risk-based capital guidelines are based upon the 1988 capital accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “BIS”). The BIS is a committee of central banks and bank 10 Table of Contents supervisors/regulators from the major industrialized countries that develops broad policy guidelines for use by each country’s supervisors in determining the supervisory policies they apply. In 2004, the BIS published a new capital accord to replace its 1988 capital accord (“BIS II”). BIS II provides two approaches for setting capital standards for credit risk — an internal ratings-based approach tailored to individual institutions’ circumstances and a standardized approach that bases risk weightings on external credit assessments to a much greater extent than permitted in existing risk-based capital guidelines. BIS II also would set capital requirements for operational risk and refine the existing capital requirements for market risk exposures. The U.S. banking and thrift agencies are developing proposed revisions to their existing capital adequacy regulations and standards based on BIS II. In November 2007, the agencies adopted a definitive final rule for implementing BIS II in the United States that would apply only to internationally active banking organizations, or “core banks” — defined as those with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated on-balance sheet foreign exposures of $10 billion or more. The final rule will be effective as of April 1, 2008. Other U.S. banking organizations may elect to adopt the requirements of this rule (if they meet applicable qualification requirements), but they will not be required to apply them. The rule also allows a banking organization’s primary federal supervisor to determine that the application of the rule would not be appropriate in light of the bank’s asset size, level of complexity, risk profile, or scope of operations. This new proposal, which is intended to be finalized before the core banks may start their first transition period year under BIS II, will replace the agencies’ earlier proposed amendments to existing risk-based capital guidelines to make them more risk sensitive (formerly referred to as the “BIS I-A” approach). The Corporation is not required to comply with BIS II. The Corporation has not made a determination as to whether it will elect to apply the BIS II requirements when they become effective. Deposit Insurance Substantially all of the deposits of Frost Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. The FDIC utilizes a risk-based assessment system that imposes insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account a bank’s capital level and supervisory rating (“CAMELS rating”). As of January 1, 2007, the previous nine risk categories utilized in the risk matrix were condensed into four risk categories which continue to be distinguished by capital levels and supervisory ratings. For large, Risk Category 1 institutions (generally those with assets in excess of $10 billion) that have long-term debt issuer ratings, including Frost Bank, assessment rates are determined from weighted-average CAMELS component ratings and long-term debt issuer ratings. The minimum annualized assessment rate for large institutions is 5 basis points per $100 of deposits and the maximum annualized assessment rate is 7 basis points per $100 of deposits. Quarterly assessment rates for large institutions in Risk Category 1 may vary within this range depending upon changes in CAMELS component ratings and long-term debt issuer ratings. Frost Bank was not required to pay any deposit insurance assessments in 2007. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005, which became law in 2006, Frost Bank received a one-time assessment credit of $8.2 million that can be applied against future premiums, subject to certain limitations. This credit was utilized to offset $4.2 million of assessments during 2007. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $4.0 million of the credit remained available to offset future deposit insurance assessments. The Corporation expects this credit to be available to offset assessments through the second quarter of 2008. This credit is not available to offset Financing Corporation (“FICO”) assessments. Frost Bank paid $1.2 million in FICO assessments during 2007 related to outstanding FICO bonds to the FDIC as collection agent. The FICO is a mixed-ownership government corporation established by the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 whose sole purpose was to function as a financing vehicle for the now defunct Federal Savings & Loan Insurance Corporation. Depositor Preference The FDIA provides that, in the event of the “liquidation or other resolution” of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution, including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors, and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver, will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured 11 Table of Contents depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including the parent bank holding company, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions FDIC-insured depository institutions can be held liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of an FDIC-insured depository institution controlled by the same bank holding company, or for any assistance provided by the FDIC to an FDIC-insured depository institution controlled by the same bank holding company that is in danger of default. “Default” means generally the appointment of a conservator or receiver. “In danger of default” means generally the existence of certain conditions indicating that default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance. Community Reinvestment Act The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (“CRA”) requires depository institutions to assist in meeting the credit needs of their market areas consistent with safe and sound banking practice. Under the CRA, each depository institution is required to help meet the credit needs of its market areas by, among other things, providing credit to low- and moderate-income individuals and communities. Depository institutions are periodically examined for compliance with the CRA and are assigned ratings. In order for a financial holding company to commence any new activity permitted by the BHC Act, or to acquire any company engaged in any new activity permitted by the BHC Act, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must have received a rating of at least “satisfactory” in its most recent examination under the CRA. Furthermore, banking regulators take into account CRA ratings when considering approval of a proposed transaction. Financial Privacy In accordance with the GLB Act, federal banking regulators adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a nonaffiliated third party. The privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”) substantially broadened the scope of United States anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. The United States Treasury Department has issued and, in some cases, proposed a number of regulations that apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions such as Cullen/Frost’s bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries. These regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers. Certain of those regulations impose specific due diligence requirements on financial institutions that maintain correspondent or private banking relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or persons. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, or to comply with all of the relevant laws or regulations, could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the “OFAC” rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The OFAC-administered sanctions 12 Table of Contents targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on “U.S. persons” engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. Legislative Initiatives From time to time, various legislative and regulatory initiatives are introduced in Congress and state legislatures, as well as by regulatory agencies. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the powers of bank holding companies and depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. Such legislation could change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. The Corporation cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted, and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on the financial condition or results of operations of the Corporation. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to Cullen/Frost or any of its subsidiaries could have a material effect on the business of the Corporation. Employees At December 31, 2007, the Corporation employed 3,781 full-time equivalent employees. None of the Corporation’s employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements. The Corporation believes its employee relations to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The names, ages as of December 31, 2007, recent business experience and positions or offices held by each of the executive officers of Cullen/Frost are as follows: Name and Position Held Age Recent Business Experience T.C. Frost Senior Chairman of the Board and Director 80 Officer and Director of Frost Bank since 1950. Chairman of the Board of Cullen/Frost from 1973 to October 1995. Chief Executive Officer of Cullen/Frost from July 1977 to October 1997. Senior Chairman of Cullen/Frost from October 1995 to present. Richard W. Evans, Jr. Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director 61 Officer of Frost Bank since 1973. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Cullen/Frost from October 1997 to present. Patrick B. Frost President of Frost Bank and Director 47 Officer of Frost Bank since 1985. President of Frost Bank from August 1993 to present. Director of Cullen/Frost from May 1997 to present. Phillip D. Green Group Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 53 Officer of Frost Bank since July 1980. Group Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Cullen/Frost from October 1995 to present. David W. Beck President, Chief Business Banking Officer of Frost Bank 57 Officer of Frost Bank since July 1973. President, Chief Business Banking Officer of Frost Bank from February 2001 to present. 13 Table of Contents Name and Position Held Age Recent Business Experience Robert A. Berman Group Executive Vice President, Internet Financial Services of Frost Bank 45 Officer of Frost Bank since January 1989. Group Executive Vice President, Internet Financial Services of Frost Bank from May 2001 to present. Paul H. Bracher President, State Regions of Frost Bank 51 Officer of Frost Bank since January 1982. President, State Regions of Frost Bank from February 2001 to present. Richard Kardys Group Executive Vice President, Executive Trust Officer of Frost Bank 61 Officer of Frost Bank since January 1977. Group Executive Vice President, Executive Trust Officer of Frost Bank from May 2001 to present. Paul J. Olivier Group Executive Vice President, Consumer Banking of Frost Bank 55 Officer of Frost Bank since August 1976. Group Executive Vice President, Consumer Banking of Frost Bank from May 2001 to present. William L. Perotti Group Executive Vice President, Chief Credit Officer and Chief Risk Officer of Frost Bank 50 Officer of Frost Bank since December 1982. Group Executive Vice President, Chief Credit Officer of Frost Bank from May 2001 to present. Chief Risk Officer of Frost Bank from April 2005 to present. Emily A. Skillman Group Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Frost Bank 63 Officer of Frost Bank since January 1998. Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Frost Bank from July 2000 to October 2003. Group Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Frost Bank from October 2003 to present. There are no arrangements or understandings between any executive officer of Cullen/Frost and any other person pursuant to which such executive officer was or is to be selected as an officer. Available Information Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Cullen/Frost is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may read and copy any document Cullen/Frost files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference room. The SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Cullen/Frost files electronically with the SEC. Cullen/Frost makes available, free of charge through its website, its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Additionally, the Corporation has adopted and posted on its website a code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. The Corporation’s website also includes its corporate governance guidelines and the charters for its audit committee, its compensation and benefits committee, and its corporate governance and nominating committee. The address for the Corporation’s website is http://www.frostbank.com. The Corporation will provide a printed copy of any of the aforementioned documents to any requesting shareholder. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Corporation’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Corporation’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Corporation are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Corporation. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Corporation’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the market price of the Corporation’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To The Corporation’s Business The Corporation Is Subject To Interest Rate Risk The Corporation’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Corporation’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Corporation receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Corporation’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Corporation’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Corporation’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Corporation’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including the use of derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Corporation’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Net Interest Income” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Corporation’s management of interest rate risk. The Corporation Is Subject To Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with the Corporation’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Corporation operates as well as those across the State of Texas and the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Corporation is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Corporation to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Corporation. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 81% of the Corporation’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate mortgage loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because the Corporation’s loan portfolio 15 Table of Contents contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Loans” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans. The Corporation’s Allowance For Possible Loan Losses May Be Insufficient The Corporation maintains an allowance for possible loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Corporation to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Corporation’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for possible loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Corporation’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for possible loan losses, the Corporation will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for possible loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Allowance for Possible Loan Losses” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Corporation’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses. The Corporation Is Subject To Environmental Liability Risk Associated With Lending Activities A significant portion of the Corporation’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Corporation may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Corporation may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Corporation to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Corporation’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Corporation’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Corporation has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s Profitability Depends Significantly On Economic Conditions In The State Of Texas The Corporation’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of Texas and the specific local markets in which the Corporation operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Corporation provides banking and financial services to customers across Texas through financial centers in the Austin, Corpus Christi, Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston, Rio Grande Valley and 16 Table of Contents San Antonio regions. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Corporation’s products and services as well as the ability of the Corporation’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Corporation’s deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation Operates In A Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area The Corporation faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets the Corporation operates. Additionally, various out-of-state banks have entered or have announced plans to enter the market areas in which the Corporation currently operates. The Corporation also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Corporation’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Corporation can. The Corporation’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. • The ability to expand the Corporation’s market position. • The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. • The rate at which the Corporation introduces new products and services relative to its competitors. • Customer satisfaction with the Corporation’s level of service. • Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Corporation’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation Is Subject To Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision The Corporation, primarily through Cullen/Frost, Frost Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect the Corporation’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing 17 Table of Contents financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. Business and Note 12 — Regulatory Matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which are located elsewhere in this report. The Corporation’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates the Corporation’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, results of operations and financial condition. New Lines of Business or New Products and Services May Subject The Corporation to Additional Risks From time to time, the Corporation may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services the Corporation may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Corporation’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Cullen/Frost Relies On Dividends From Its Subsidiaries For Most Of Its Revenue Cullen/Frost is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Corporation’s common stock and interest and principal on Cullen/Frost’s debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Frost Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay to Cullen/Frost. Also, Cullen/Frost’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event Frost Bank is unable to pay dividends to Cullen/Frost, Cullen/Frost may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the Corporation’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Frost Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. Business and Note 12 — Regulatory Matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which are located elsewhere in this report. Potential Acquisitions May Disrupt the Corporation’s Business and Dilute Stockholder Value The Corporation seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company. 18 Table of Contents • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company. • Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company. • Potential disruption to the Corporation’s business. • Potential diversion of the Corporation’s management’s time and attention. • The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company. • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company. • Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. The Corporation regularly evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Corporation’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. During 2007, the Corporation acquired Prime Benefits, Inc. (Austin market area). During 2006, the Corporation acquired Texas Community Bancshares, Inc. (Dallas market area), Alamo Corporation of Texas (Rio Grande Valley market area) and Summit Bancshares, Inc. (Fort Worth market area). During 2005, the Corporation acquired Horizon Capital Bank (Houston market area). Details of these transactions are presented in Note 2 — Mergers and Acquisitions in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is located elsewhere in this report. The Corporation May Not Be Able To Attract and Retain Skilled People The Corporation’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Corporation can be intense and the Corporation may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Corporation’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Corporation’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Corporation does not currently have employment agreements or non-competition agreements with any of its senior officers. The Corporation’s Information Systems May Experience An Interruption Or Breach In Security The Corporation relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Corporation’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Corporation’s information systems could damage the Corporation’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation Continually Encounters Technological Change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and 19 Table of Contents enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Corporation’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Corporation’s operations. Many of the Corporation’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Corporation may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s business and, in turn, the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation Is Subject To Claims and Litigation Pertaining To Fiduciary Responsibility From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Corporation’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Corporation’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Corporation they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Corporation and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts Of War Or Terrorism and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact The Corporation’s Business Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Corporation’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Corporation’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Corporation to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated With The Corporation’s Common Stock The Corporation’s Stock Price Can Be Volatile Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Corporation’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations. • Recommendations by securities analysts. • Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Corporation. • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Corporation and/or its competitors. • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors. • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Corporation or its competitors. • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. • Changes in government regulations. • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. 20 Table of Contents General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the Corporation’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The Trading Volume In The Corporation’s Common Stock Is Less Than That Of Other Larger Financial Services Companies Although the Corporation’s common stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Corporation’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Corporation has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Corporation’s common stock, significant sales of the Corporation’s common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Corporation’s stock price to fall. An Investment In The Corporation’s Common Stock Is Not An Insured Deposit The Corporation’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Corporation’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Corporation’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. The Corporation’s Articles Of Incorporation, By-Laws and Shareholders Rights Plan As Well As Certain Banking Laws May Have An Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of the Corporation’s articles of incorporation and by-laws, federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, and the Corporation’s stock purchase rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Corporation, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the Corporation’s shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Corporation’s common stock. Risks Associated With The Corporation’s Industry The Earnings Of Financial Services Companies Are Significantly Affected By General Business And Economic Conditions The Corporation’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which the Corporation operates, all of which are beyond the Corporation’s control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for the Corporation’s products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Financial Services Companies Depend On The Accuracy And Completeness Of Information About Customers And Counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Corporation may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Corporation may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material 21 Table of Contents adverse impact on the Corporation’s business and, in turn, the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Consumers May Decide Not To Use Banks To Complete Their Financial Transactions Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 