ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following factors are important and should be considered carefully in connection with any evaluation of our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, or an investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are those we currently believe may materially affect our company or our financial results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations or affect our financial results. Our business is subject to general economic factors and business risks that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our business is subject to general economic factors and business factors that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include excess capacity in the trucking and temperature-controlled industry, strikes, or other work stoppages, significant increases in interest rates, fuel costs, taxes and license and registration fees. Recessionary economic cycles, changes in customers' business activities and excess tractor or trailer capacity in compariso n with shipping demands could materially affect our operations. Economic conditions that decrease shipping demand or an increase in the supply of tractors and trailers generally available in the transportation sector of the economy can exert downward pressure on our pricing programs and equipment utilization, thereby decreasing asset profitability. Economic conditions also may adversely influence our customers and their ability to pay for our services. Financial institutions may continue to consolidate or cease to do business, which could result in tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. A credit crisis could negatively impact our business, including through the impaired credit availability and financial stability of our customers, including our distribution partners and channels. A disruption in the financial markets may also have an effect on our banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. We may need to incur indebtedness or issue debt or equity securities in the future to fund working capital requirements, make investments in revenue generating equipment, or for general operating purposes. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient financing because we are unable to access the capital markets on financially economical or feasible terms, it could impact our ability to provide services to our customers and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial results, current operations, results of operations and potential investments. It is not possible to predict the effects on the economy or consumer confidence of actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or group located in a foreign state, or heightened security requirements. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry and numerous competitive factors could impair our growth and profitability. Some of these factors include: · We compete with many other transportation carriers of varying sizes, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages; · Some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our profitability levels; · Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers or current bids from multiple carriers, and in some instances we may not be selected; · Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors as a core carrier; · Certain of our customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations; · Competition from freight logistics and brokerage companies may negatively impact our customer relationships and freight rates; and · Economies of scale that may be passed onto smaller carriers by procurement aggregation providers may improve such carriers’ ability to compete with us. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from our major customers. For 2010, our top 20 customers accounted for approximately 48% of our revenue; our top ten customers accounted for 37% of our revenue; and our top five customers accounted for approximately 26% of our revenue. Generally, we enter into one-year agreements with our major customers, which generally do not contain minimum shipment volumes with us. We cannot ensure that, upon expiration of existing contracts, these customers will continue to utilize our service s at the current levels. Many of our customers periodically solicit bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in a loss of business to one of our competitors. Some of our customers also operate their own private fleets and the expansion of those fleets may result in lowering the demand for our services with such customers. 9 Future insurance and claims expense could reduce our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expense might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We self-insure significant portions of our claims exposure resulting from work-related injuries, auto liability, general liability, cargo and property damage claims, as well as employees' health insurance. We currently reserve for anticipated losses and expenses. We periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect our experience. However, ultimate results usually differ from our estimates, which could result in losses in excess of our reserved amounts. We maintain insurance above the amounts for which we self-insure. Although we believe the aggregate insurance limits should be sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. Insurance carriers have raised premiums for many businesses, including transportation companies. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could raise our self-insured retention when our policies are renewed. If these expenses increase, if we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, or if we experience a claim for which coverage is not provided, results of our operations and financial condition could be materially affected. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel may increase our cost of operations, which could materially affect our profitability. We are subject to risk with respect to purchases of fuel for use in our tractors and refrigerated trailers. Fuel prices are influenced by many factors that are not within our control. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant increases in diesel fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition unless we are able to pass increased costs on to customers through rate increases or fuel surcharges. Historically, we have sought to recover increases in fuel prices from customers through fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges that can be collected have not always fully offset the increase in the cost of diesel fuel in the past, and there can be no assurance that fuel surcharges that can be collected will offset the increase in the cost of diesel fuel in the future. Seasonality and the impact of weather can affect our profitability. Our tractor productivity generally decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations and some shippers reduce their shipments. At the same time, operating expenses generally increase, with fuel efficiency declining because of engine idling and harsh weather creating higher accident frequency, increased claims and more equipment repairs. We can also suffer short-term impacts from weather-related events, such as hurricanes, blizzards, ice-storms and floods, which may increase in severity or frequency due to the physical effects of climate change that could harm our results or make our results more volatile. We will have significant ongoing capital requirements that could negatively affect our growth and profitability. The trucking industry is capital intensive, and replacing older equipment requires significant investment. If we elect to expand our fleet in future periods, our capital needs would increase. We expect to pay for our capital expenditures with cash flows from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and leasing arrangements. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain financing on favorable terms, we m ay need to limit our growth, enter into less favorable financing arrangements or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could affect our profitability. We rely on our key management and other employees and depend on recruitment and retention of qualified personnel. Difficulty in attracting or retaining qualified employee-drivers and independent contractors who provide tractors for use in our business could impede our growth and profitability. A limited number of key executives manage our business. Their departure could have a material effect on our operations. In addition, our performance is primarily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified drivers. Our independent contractors are responsible for paying for their own equipment, labor, fuel, and other operating costs. Significant increases in these costs could cause them to seek higher compensation from us or other opportunities. Competition for employee-drivers continues to increase. If a shortage of employee-drivers occurs, or if we were unable to continue to sufficiently contract with independent contractors, we could be forced to limit our growth or experience an increase in the number of our tractors without drivers, which would lower our profitability. Service instability in the railroad industry could increase our operating costs and reduce our ability to offer intermodal services, which could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations and customer relationships. Our intermodal operations are dependent on railroads, and our dependence on railroads may increase if we expand our intermodal services. In most markets, rail service is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. Any reduction in service by the railroads may increase the cost of the rail-based services we provide and reduce the reliability, timeliness and overall attractiveness of our rail-based services. Railroads are relatively free to adjust their rates as market conditions change. That could result in higher costs to our customers and influence our ability to offer intermodal services. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate replacement of or additional contracts with railroads, which could limit our ability to provide this service and may affect our profitability. 10 Interruptions in the operation of our computer and communications systems could reduce our income. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems and infrastructure. Our operations and those of our technology and communications service providers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, internet failures, computer viruses and other events beyond our control. In the event of a system failure, our business could experience significant disruptio n. We have established an off-site facility where our data and processing functions are replicated; however, there can be no assurances that the business recovery plan will work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. Changes in the availability of or the demand for new and used trucks could reduce our growth and negatively affect our income. More restrictive federal emissions standards require new technology diesel engines. As a result, we expect to continue to pay increased prices for equipment and incur additional expenses and related financing costs for the foreseeable future. We have a conditional commitment from our principal tractor vendor regarding the amount we will be paid on the disposal of most of our tractors as part of a trade-in program. We could incur a financial loss upon disposition of our equipment if the vendor cannot meet its obligations under these agreements. If we are unable to obtain favorable prices for our used equipment, or if the cost of new equipment continues to increase, we will increase our depreciation expense or recognize less gain (or a loss) on the disposition of our tractors and trailers. This may affect our earnings and cash flows. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The DOT and various state and local agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and insurance requirements. Our company drivers and independent contractors must also comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. We may also become subjec t to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours-of-service, ergonomics, or other matters affecting our safety or operating methods. Other agencies, such as the EPA, FMCSA and the Department of Homeland Security, also regulate our equipment, operations, and drivers. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs: see Part I, Item 1. Business - Regulation. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from our vehicles and facilities, engine idling, and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote co mpliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may not be able to improve our operating efficiency rapidly enough to meet market conditions. Because the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, we must continue to improve our operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve our profitability. Although we have been able to improve efficiency and reduce costs in the past, there is no assurance we will continue to do so in the future. In addition, the need to reduce ongoing operating costs may result in significant up-front costs to reduce workforce, close or consolidate facilities, or upgrade equipment and technology. Our operations could be affected by a work stoppage at locations of our customers. Although none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, a strike or other work stoppage at a customer location could negatively affect our revenue and earnings and could cause us to incur unexpected costs to redeploy or deactivate assets and personnel. We are subject to anticipated future increases in the statutory federal tax rate. An increase in the statutory tax rate would increase our tax expense. In addition, our net deferred tax liability is stated net of offsetting deferred tax assets. The assets consist of anticipated future tax deductions for items such as personal and work-related injuries and bad debt expenses, which have been reflected on our financial statements but which are not yet tax deductible. We will need to generate sufficient future taxable income in order to fully realize our deferred tax assets. Should we not realize sufficient future taxable income, we may be required to write-off a portion or all of our deferred tax assets, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Due to probable tax rate increases in the future, we would be required to adjust our deferred tax liabilities at that time to reflect higher federal tax rates. 11 Changes in market demand may have an unfavorable impact on our operating efficiency. We provide transportation services to a number of customers that ship a variety of products including, but not limited to, food, health care, and confectionary products. Should the demand for our customers’ products decline, our revenues could be negatively affected. Should those conditions arise, there is no assurance that we will be able to adjust our operating costs sufficiently to offset the decline in revenue. We are subject to potential litigation and claims. We are exposed to litigation involving personal injury, property damage, work-related injuries, cargo losses, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”), unemployment claims and general liability during the normal course of operating our business, any of which could affect our results depending on the severity and resolution of the aforementioned exposures. A negative economic impact on our customers’ businesses may adversely affect our credit risk. Certain customers may not be able to meet their financial obligations due to deterioration of their own financial condition, credit ratings, or bankruptcy. While we do record an allowance for doubtful accounts, a considerable amount of judgment is required in assessing the realization of these receivables which could affect our cash collections and operating results. We are dependent on our customers’ product safety and quality control procedures to ensure product integrity. As most shipments tendered to us are packaged in such a way to prevent inspection and testing, we are dependent upon our customers’ quality control to ensure our other customers’ products are not subject to chemicals, bacteria, or other harmful agents that could contaminate their products. Such contamination could result in loss of business, consumer confidence in our Company, and possibly cause public health concerns resulting in fines, costly litigation, and/or loss of operating authority. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 