ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our results of operations, financial condition, and business may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to successfully implement our Capital Plan. Our Capital Plan, which is described in more detail under “Business – Recent Developments” above, has a primary objective of achieving and thereafter maintaining certain minimum capital ratios required by resolutions adopted by our bank's Board of Directors in December 2009 (as subsequently amended). In 2009 and 2010, we engaged in various transactions to help us achieve the minimum capital ratios set forth in the Capital Plan, which are also described under "Business – Recent Developments" above. However, we have not yet completed the final initiative of our Capital Plan, which is a public offering for cash. As of December 31, 2010, our bank met one of the two minimum capital ratios set forth in the resolutions, but not both. In light of our continued improvements in asset quality and other positive indicators, including our updated financial projections, we are reevaluating our alternatives for achieving the objectives of the Capital Plan, including the size and timing of any common stock offering. This evaluation will take into account our ongoing operating results, as well as input from our financial advisors and the Treasury. However, whatever strategy we pursue to reach the objectives of the Capital Plan will involve risks and uncertainties. The successful implementation of our Capital Plan is, in many respects, largely out of our control as it primarily depends on factors such as our ability to raise new capital, which depends on factors such as the stability of the financial markets, other macro economic conditions, and investors’ perception of the ability of the Michigan economy to continue to recover from the current recession. In addition, other risks, including each of those described in these "Risk Factors," could negatively affect our operating performance in significant ways, which would in turn have a negative impact on our ability to reach the goals set forth in our Capital Plan. If we are unable to achieve the minimum capital ratios set forth in our Capital Plan, it would likely materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the value of our securities. An inability to improve our capital position would make it very difficult for us to withstand continued losses as a result of continued economic difficulties in Michigan and other factors, as described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. It is possible that our bank’s capital could fall below the levels necessary to remain well-capitalized under federal regulatory standards. In that case, our primary bank regulators may impose regulatory restrictions and requirements on us through a regulatory enforcement action. If our bank fails to remain well-capitalized under federal regulatory standards, it will be prohibited from accepting or renewing brokered deposits without the prior consent of the FDIC, which would likely have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. If our regulators take enforcement action against us, it would likely increase our expenses (due to additional costs associated with complying with such enforcement action) and could limit our business operations (due to restrictions imposed by the enforcement action). There could be other expenses associated with a continued deterioration of our capital, such as increased deposit insurance premiums payable to the FDIC. Because of our financial condition at March 31, 2010, we received a letter from Fannie Mae in May 2010 advising us that we were in breach of our selling and servicing contract with Fannie Mae. The letter states that if this breach is not remedied as evidenced by our call report as of June 30, 2010, Fannie Mae will suspend our servicing contract. The suspension of our contract with Fannie Mae could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. While our bank remains “well-capitalized” as of December 31, 2010, the financial condition underlying the May 2010 letter has not been remedied and we have not received further correspondence from Fannie Mae. Thus, this matter remains unresolved and the risk exists that Fannie Mae may require us to very quickly sell or transfer mortgage servicing rights to a third party or unilaterally strip us of such servicing rights if we cannot complete an approved transfer. Depending on the terms of any such transaction, this forced sale or transfer of such mortgage loan servicing rights could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and future earnings prospects. Although we have not received any notice from Freddie Mac similar to the notice we received from Fannie Mae, a similar type of action could be taken by Freddie Mac. Additional restrictions would make it increasingly difficult for us to withstand the current economic conditions, any continued deterioration in our loan portfolio, or any additional charges related to estimated potential incurred losses for Mepco from vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies. We could then be required to engage in a sale or other transaction with a third party or our bank could be placed into receivership by bank regulators. Any such event could be expected to result in a loss of the entire value of our outstanding shares of common stock and it could also result in a loss of the entire value of our outstanding trust preferred securities and preferred stock. 24 We may not achieve results similar to our current financial projections. In our annual report, to be delivered to shareholders in connection with the April 26, 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (filed as exhibit 13 to this report on Form 10-K), we disclose certain information regarding our potential future financial performance, including our belief that our bank can remain above “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes for the foreseeable future, even without additional capital, and attain the bank regulatory capital ratios required by the Capital Plan in 2012 and our belief that our bank can return to profitability in 2012. These projections and assumptions were based on information about circumstances and conditions existing as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The projections are based on estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and, tho ugh considered reasonable by us, are subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that actual results will not be significantly different than the information disclosed. It is possible that our bank may not be able to remain well-capitalized as we work through asset quality issues and seek to return to consistent profitability. Any significant deterioration in or inability to improve our capital position would make it very difficult for us to withstand continued losses that we may incur and that may be increased or made more likely as a result of continued economic difficulties and other factors. We do not intend to update any such forward-looking information. Neither we nor any other person or entity assumes any responsibility for the accuracy or validity of these projections, as the projections are not, and sho uld not be taken as, a guarantee of our future financial performance or condition. We have credit risk inherent in our loan portfolios, and our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, despite analyses that have been conducted (both internally and externally by independent third parties) to assess the adequacy of our allowance. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their respective terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to cover any losses we may incur. We have experienced and may continue to experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. Non-performing loans amounted to $67.6 million and $109.9 million at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. Our allowance coverage ratio of non-performing loans was 100.5% and 74.4% at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. In d etermining the size of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of current economic conditions. If our assumptions or judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover certain loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio, and adjustments may be necessary to account for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would adversely impact our operating results. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although we have performed internal and external testing of our loan portfolio to help ensure the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, if the assumptions or judgments used in these analyses prove to be incorrect, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. In addition, these analyses were completed in early 2010, and we have not undertaken updated analyses with the same level of detail. Material additions to our allowance would adversely impact our operating results. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs, notwithstanding any internal or external analysis that has been performed. 25 Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, and particularly by economic conditions in Michigan. Our success depends to a great extent upon the general economic conditions in Michigan’s lower peninsula. We have in general experienced a slowing economy in Michigan since 2001. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking services to customers primarily in Michigan’s lower peninsula. Our loan portfolio, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans will be impacted by local economic conditions. The economic difficulties faced in Michigan have had and may continue to have many adverse consequences, including the following: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • Demand for our products and services may decline; and • Collateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans. Additionally, the overall capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption since the start of the U.S. recession. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. As a consequence of the U.S. recession, business activity across a wide range of industries faces serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly and may continue to increase. While Michigan's unemployment rate has declined in recent months, it is still among the highest of all states. While we believe we started to see some positive trends in the Michigan economy in 2010, the general business environment has continued to have an overall adverse effect on our business during 2010. If conditions do not show some meaningful and sustainable improvement, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will likely continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions. Current market developments, particularly in real estate markets, may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing market in recent years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by us and other financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. As a result of these conditions, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases ceased to provide, funding to borrowers including financial institutions. Although we believe the Michigan economy started to show signs of stabilization in 2010, it is possible conditions will not stabilize or recover at or even close to the pace expected. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets, and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market developments may continue to negatively affect consumer confidence levels and may continue to contribute to increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. 26 Events in the vehicle service contract industry over the past few years have increased our credit risk and reputation risk and could expose us to further significant losses. One of our subsidiaries, Mepco, is engaged in the business of acquiring and servicing payment plans for consumers who purchase vehicle service contracts and similar products. The receivables generated in this business involve a different, and generally higher, level of risk of delinquency or collection than generally associated with the loan portfolios of our bank. Upon cancellation of the payment plans acquired by Mepco (whether due to voluntary cancellation by the consumer or non-payment), the third party entities that provide the service contracts or other products to consumers become obligated to refund Mepco the unearned portion of the sales price previously funded by Mepco. The refund obligations of these counterparties are not fully secured. In addition, several of these providers, including the counterparty described in the next risk factor below and other companies from which Mepco has purchased payment plans, have been sued or are under investigation for alleged violations of telemarketing laws and other consumer protection laws. The actions have been brought primarily by state attorneys general and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) but there have also been class action and other private lawsuits filed. In some cases, the companies have been placed into receivership, filed bankruptcy, or discontinued their business. In addition, the allegations, particularly those relating to blatantly abusive telemarketing practices by a relatively small number of marketers, have resulted in a significant amount of negative publicity that has adversely affected and may in the future c ontinue to adversely affect sales and customer cancellations of purchased products throughout the industry, which have already been negatively impacted by the economic recession. It is possible these events could also cause federal or state lawmakers to enact legislation to further regulate the industry. These events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on Mepco in several ways. First, we face increased risk with respect to certain counterparties defaulting in their contractual obligations to Mepco which could result in additional charges for losses if these counterparties go out of business. Second, these events have negatively affected sales and customer cancellations in the industry, which has had and is expected to continue to have a negative impact on the profitability of Mepco’s business. In addition, if any federal or state investigation is expanded to include finance companies such as Mepco, Mepco will face additional legal and other expenses in connection with any such investigation. An increased level of private actions in which Mepco is named as a defendant will also cause Mepco to incur additional legal expenses as well as potential liability. Finally, Mepco has incurred and will likely continue to incur additional legal and other expenses, in general, in dealing with these industry problems. Net payment plan receivables totaled $201.3 million (or approximately 7.9% of total assets) and $406.3 million (or approximately 13.7% of total assets) at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We expect that the amount of total payment plan receivables will decline at a more moderate pace during 2011. This decline in payment plan receivables has adversely impacted our net interest income and net interest margin. Mepco has significant exposure to a single counterparty that filed bankruptcy in 2010. The charges we have taken for expected losses related to the failure of this counterparty have had a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If actual losses exceed the charges we have taken, we may incur additional losses that could be material. Mepco had purchased a significant amount of payment plans from a single counterparty that declared bankruptcy on March 1, 2010. The amount of payment plan receivables purchased from this counterparty and outstanding at December 31, 2010 totaled approximately $29.0 million (compared to $206.1 million at December 31, 2009). In addition, as of December 31, 2010, this counterparty owed Mepco $49.2 million for previously cancelled payment plans. The bankruptcy and wind down of operations by this counterparty is likely to lead to substantial potential losses as this entity will not be in a position to honor all of its obligations on payment plans that Mepco had purchased which are cancelled prior to payment in full. Mepco will seek to recover amounts owed by the counterparty from various co-obligors and guarantors, through the liq uidation of certain collateral held by Mepco, and through claims against this counterparty’s bankruptcy estate. In the last half of 2009, Mepco established a $19.0 million reserve for losses related to this counterparty. During 2010 this reserve was increased by $3.6 million, to $22.6 million as of December 31, 2010. In addition, at December 31, 2010, Mepco had recorded a receivable of $3.4 million for debtor-in-possession financing and associated professional fees related to the above described single counterparty. 27 We believe our assumptions regarding our ability to collect amounts owing to Mepco as a result of this counterparty's failure are reasonable, and we based them on our good faith judgments using data currently available. We also believe the current amount of reserves we have established and the vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies expense that we have recorded are appropriate given our estimate of probable incurred losses at the applicable balance sheet date. However, because of the uncertainty surrounding the numerous and complex assumptions made, there is a risk that the reserves we have established related to the failure of this counterparty will not be sufficient to absorb the actual losses we may incur, as described in more detail in the next risk factor. The assumptions we make in calculating estimated potential losses for Mepco may be inaccurate, which could lead to losses that are materially greater than the charges we have taken to date. We make a number of key assumptions in calculating the estimated potential losses for Mepco, including the likelihood that a counterparty could discontinue its business operations, the cancellation rates for outstanding payment plans, the value of and our ability to collect any collateral securing the amounts owed to Mepco upon cancellation of outstanding payment plans, and our ability to collect such amounts from other counterparties obligated to Mepco. It is only within the approximately past 18 to 24 months that events have occurred that have led to a significant increase in vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies expense. The aggregate amount of vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies expense recorded in past years has grown from $0 in 2007, to $1.0 million in 2008, to $31.2 million in 2009, and declined to $18.6 million in 2010. As a result, Mepco does not have much historical data to draw from in making the assumptions necessary to predict probable incurred losses (such as the ability to successfully recover from service contract administrators amounts funded by Mepco to the service contract seller). If actual cancellation rates are higher than we estimated or if actual counterparty repayments are less than we estimated, the amount of our reserves may be insufficient to cover our actual losses, and the additional losses we incur could be material. Moreover, we have been forced to bring suit against certain counterparties in order to collect amounts owed to Mepco. We expect we will need to initiate additional lawsuits against other counterparties that do not pay their obligations to Mepco, which adds further uncertainty to our assumptions. These assumptions are very difficult to make, and actual events could be materially different from any one or more of our assumptions. In that case, we may incur additional, and possibly material, losses in excess of the charges we have taken. Mepco has historically contributed a meaningful amount of profit to our consolidated results of operations, but the size of its business shrunk significantly in 2010 and may continue to shrink, albeit at a more moderate pace. For 2008 and 2007, Mepco had net income of $10.7 million and $5.5 million, respectively. With the counterparty losses experienced by Mepco late in 2009 (including those related to the counterparty described above) and a $16.7 million goodwill impairment charge, Mepco incurred an $11.7 million loss in 2009. For 2010, Mepco reported a net loss of $1.4 million. Net payment plan receivables totaled $201.3 million (or approximately 7.9% of total assets) and $406.3 million (or approximately 13.7% of total assets) at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This represents a decline of over 50% in 2010. We expect that the amount of total payment plan receivables will decline at a more moderate pace during 2011. This decline in payment plan receivables has adversely impacted our net interest income and net interest margin. Mepco’s business is highly specialized and presents unique operational and internal control challenges. Mepco faces unique operational and internal control challenges due to the relatively rapid turnover of its portfolio and high volume of new payment plans. Mepco’s business is highly specialized, and its success depends largely on the continued services of its executives and other key employees familiar with its business. In addition, because activity in this market is conducted primarily through relationships with unaffiliated vehicle service contract direct marketers and administrators and because the customers are located nationwide, risk management and general supervisory oversight is generally more difficult than in our bank. The risk of third party fraud is also higher as a result of these factors. Acts of fraud are difficult to detect and deter, and we cannot assure investors that the risk management procedures and controls will prevent losses from fraudulent activity. Although we have an internal control system at Mepco, we may be exposed to the risk of material loss in this business. 28 Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to secure adequate funding. Our use of wholesale funding sources exposes us to liquidity risk and potential earnings volatility. We rely on wholesale funding, including Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings, brokered deposits, and Federal Reserve Bank borrowings, to augment our core deposits to fund our business. As of December 31, 2010, our use of such wholesale funding sources amounted to approximately $344.6 million or 14.8% of total funding. Because wholesale funding sources are affected by general market conditions, the availability of funding from wholesale sources may be dependent on the confidence these parties have in our commercial and consumer banking operations. The continued availability to us of these funding sources is uncertain, and brokered deposits may be difficult for us to retain or replace at attractive rates as they mature. Our liquidity will be constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding sources or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest or at all. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loans, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly, in order to repay obligations as they mature. The constraint on our liquidity would be exacerbated if we were to experience a reduction in our core deposits, and we cannot be sure we will be able to maintain our current level of core deposits. In particular, those deposits that are currently uninsured or those deposits that were in the FDIC Transaction Account Guarantee Program (“TAGP”), which expired on December 31, 2010, may be particularly susceptible to outflow, although the Dodd-Frank Act extended protection similar to that provided under the TAGP through December 31, 2012 for only non-interest bearing transaction accounts. At December 31, 2010 we had $156.9 million of uninsured deposits and an additional $139.0 million of deposits that were in non-interest bearing transaction accounts and fully insured through December 31, 2012 under the Dodd-Frank Act. A reducti on in core deposits would increase our need to rely on wholesale funding sources, at a time when our ability to do so may be more restricted, as described above. As a result of these liquidity risks, we have increased our level of overnight cash balances in interest-bearing accounts to $336.4 million at December 31, 2010 from $223.5 million at December 31, 2009. We have also issued longer-term (two to five years) callable brokered certificates of deposit and reduced certain secured borrowings to increase available funding sources. We believe these actions will assist us in meeting our liquidity needs during 2011. However, these actions have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on our net interest income and net interest margin. Net interest income totaled $111.7 million during 2010, which represents a $26.9 million or 19.4% decrease from 2009. The decrease in net interest income in 2010 compared to 2009 reflects decline in our net interest margin as w ell as a decrease in average interest-earning assets. In addition, if we fail to remain “well-capitalized” under federal regulatory standards, we will be prohibited from accepting or renewing brokered deposits without the prior consent of the FDIC. As of December 31, 2010, we had brokered deposits of approximately $273.5 million. Approximately $22.2 million of these brokered deposits mature during the next 12 months. As a result, any such restrictions on our ability to access brokered deposits are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot be sure we will be able to maintain our current level of core deposits. Our deposit customers could move their deposits in reaction to media reports about bank failures in general or, particularly, if our financial condition were to deteriorate further. A reduction in core deposits would increase our need to rely on wholesale funding sources, at a time when our ability to do so may be more restricted, as described above. Our financial performance will be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources. In such case, our net interest income and results of operations would be adversely affected. Dividends being deferred on our outstanding trust preferred securities and our outstanding preferred stock are accumulating and are expected to continue to increase as we have no current plans to resume such dividend payments at any time in the near future. We are currently deferring payment of quarterly dividends on our preferred stock held by the Treasury, which pays cumulative dividends quarterly at a rate of 5% per annum through February 14, 2014, and 9% per annum thereafter. In addition, we have exercised our right to defer all quarterly interest payments on the subordinated debentures we issued to our trust subsidiaries. As a result, all quarterly dividends on the related trust preferred securities are also being deferred. We may defer such interest payments for a total of 20 consecutive calendar quarters without causing an event of default under the documents governing these securities. After such period, we must pay all deferred interest and resume quarterly interest payments or we will be in default. 29 We do not have any current plans to resume dividend payments on our outstanding trust preferred securities or our outstanding preferred stock. If and when either of such payments resume, however, the accrued amounts must be paid and made current. As of December 31, 2010, the amount of these accrued but unpaid dividends on our outstanding trust preferred securities and our outstanding Series B Convertible Preferred Stock was $5.0 million. We face uncertainty with respect to legislative efforts by the federal government to help stabilize the U.S. financial system, address problems that caused the recent crisis in the U.S. financial markets, or otherwise regulate the financial services industry. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the federal government enacted new laws intended to strengthen and restore confidence in the U.S. financial system. See “Business—Regulatory Developments” above for additional information regarding these developments. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that such programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of these and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of depressed financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of our common stock. In addition, additional legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future that could adversely impact us. For example, on July 21, 2010, the President signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law, which includes the creation of a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with power to promulgate and, with respect to financial institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, enforce consumer protection laws, the creation of a Financial Stability Oversight Council chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to identify institutions and practices that might pose a systemic risk, provisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation of all companies whose securities are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, a provision that will broaden the base for FDIC insurance assessments and permanently increa se FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000, a provision under which interchange fees for debit cards of issuers with at least $10 billion in assets will be set by the Federal Reserve under a restrictive “reasonable and proportional cost” per transaction standard, a provision that will require bank regulators to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as strong as those required for their insured depository subsidiaries, subject to a grandfather clause for financial institutions with less than $15 billion in assets as of December 31, 2009, and new restrictions on how mortgage brokers and loan originators may be compensated. When implemented, these provisions may impact our business operations and may negatively affect our earnings and financial condition by affecting our ability to offer certain products or earn certain fees and by exposing us to increased compliance and other costs. Many aspects of the new law require federal regulatory authorities to issue regulations that have not yet been issued, so the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act is not yet known. This legislation as well as other similar federal initiatives could have a material adverse impact on our business. We have credit risk inherent in our securities portfolio. We maintain diversified securities portfolios, which include obligations of the Treasury and government-sponsored agencies as well as securities issued by states and political subdivisions, mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. We also invest in capital securities, which include preferred stocks and trust preferred securities. We seek to limit credit losses in our securities portfolios by generally purchasing only highly rated securities (rated “AA” or higher by a major debt rating agency) or by conducting significant due diligence on the issuer for unrated securities. However, gross unrealized losses on securities available for sale in our portfolio totaled approximately $5.2 million as of December 31, 2010 (compared to approximately $10 million as of December 31, 2009). We believe these unrealized losse s are temporary in nature and are expected to be recovered within a reasonable time period as we believe we have the ability to hold the securities to maturity or until such time as the unrealized losses reverse. However, we evaluate securities available for sale for other than temporary impairment (OTTI) at least quarterly and more frequently when economic or market concerns warrant such evaluation. Those evaluations may result in OTTI charges to our earnings. In addition to these impairment charges, we may, in the future, experience additional losses in our securities portfolio which may result in charges that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 30 Our mortgage-banking revenues are susceptible to substantial variations dependent largely upon factors that we do not control, such as market interest rates. A portion of our revenues are derived from gains on the sale of real estate mortgage loans. We realized net gains of $12.3 million on the sale of mortgage loans during 2010 compared to $10.9 million during 2009. These net gains primarily depend on the volume of loans we sell, which in turn depends on our ability to originate real estate mortgage loans and the demand for fixed-rate obligations and other loans that are outside of our established interest-rate risk parameters. Net gains on real estate mortgage loans are also dependent upon economic and competitive factors as well as our ability to effectively manage exposure to changes in interest rates. Consequently, they can often be a volatile part of our overall revenues. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Our interest income and interest expense are affected by general economic conditions and by the policies of regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrar y to our position, this “gap” will work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by, among other factors, changes in the following: • inflation or deflation rates; • levels of business activity; • recession; • unemployment levels; • money supply; • domestic or foreign events; and • instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. We rely heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations and the ability to implement our Capital Plan and business strategies. The continuity of our operations is influenced strongly by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams of each of our lines of business will continue to be important to successful implementation of our Capital Plan and our strategies. We do not have employment or non-compete agreements with any of our executives or other key employees (although we recently entered into a Consulting and Transition Agreement with our Chief Executive Office in connection with our recently announced management transition plan). In addition, we face restrictions on our ability to compensate our executives as a result of our participation in the CPP under TARP. Many of our competitors do not face these same restrictions. The une xpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. We face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings banks, finance companies, and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems, and a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, and insurance companies, which are not subject to the same degree of regulation as that imposed on bank holding companies. As a result, these non-bank competitors may have an advantage over us in providing certain services, and this competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our resul ts of operations and financial condition. We will face challenges in our ability to achieve future growth in the near term. Our current capital position has prevented us from pursuing any meaningful growth initiatives, and we have taken actions to shrink our balance sheet. Our current focus, as discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our annual report to shareholders included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is to strengthen our capital base, as opposed to pursuing growth. 31 We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. We are generally subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by federal and state banking authorities. The burden of regulatory compliance has increased under current legislation and banking regulations and is likely to continue to have a significant impact on the financial services industry. Recent legislative and regulatory changes as well as changes in regulatory enforcement policies and capital adequacy guidelines are likely to increase our cost of doing business. In addition, future legislative or regulatory changes could have a substantial impact on us. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority, and operations; increase our costs of doing business; and, as a result, give an advantage to our competitors who may not be subje ct to similar legislative and regulatory requirements. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory power may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. There have been numerous media reports about bank failures, which we expect will continue as additional banks fail. These reports have created concerns among certain of our customers, particularly those with deposit balances in excess of deposit insurance limits. We have proactively sought to provide appropriate information to our deposit customers about our organization in order to retain our business and deposit relationships. To date, we have not experienced a meaningful loss of core deposits, nor have we had to offer above market interest rates in order to retain our core deposits. However, we cannot be sure we will continue to be successful in maintaining the majority of our core deposit base. The outflow of significant amounts of deposits could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our earnings. As an FDIC-insured institution, we are required to pay deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. Due to higher levels of bank failures beginning in 2008, the FDIC has taken numerous steps to restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund. Our deposit insurance expense increased substantially in 2009 compared to prior periods, reflecting higher rates and a special assessment of $1.4 million in the second quarter of 2009. This industry-wide special assessment was equal to 5 basis points on our total assets less our Tier 1 capital. In addition, our balance of total deposits increased during 2009. During 2007, we fully utilized the assessment credits that reduced our expense during that year. Under the FDIC’s risk-based assessment system for deposit insurance premiums, all insured depository institutions are placed into one of four categories and assessed insurance premiums based primarily on their level of capital and supervisory evaluations. Deposit insurance assessments currently range from 0.07% to 0.78% of average domestic deposits, depending on an institution's risk classification and other factors. Effective beginning April 1, 2011, banks will be charged FDIC insurance premiums based on net assets (defined as the quarter to date average daily total assets less the quarter to date average daily Tier 1 capital) rather than based on average domestic deposits. Initial base assessment rates will vary from 0.05% to 0.35% of net assets and may be adjusted between negative 0.025% and po sitive 0.10% for an unsecured debt adjustment and a brokered deposit adjustment. Assuming that we remain in the same risk category, we expect that this new FDIC assessment system will result in a decline in our deposit insurance premiums. However, if our financial condition worsens and our Tier 1 capital deteriorates further, our deposit insurance expense may increase. The amount of deposit insurance that we are required to pay is also subject to factors outside of our control, including bank failures and regulatory initiatives. Such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. Initiatives we may take to fully implement our Capital Plan could be highly dilutive to our existing common shareholders. Our Capital Plan contemplates capital raising initiatives that involve the issuance of a significant number of shares of our common stock, as described under "Business – Recent Developments" above. While we are currently re-evaluating the best strategy to implement our Capital Plan, any pursuit of these capital raising initiatives is likely to be highly dilutive to our existing common shareholders and their voting power. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the dilutive effect of the capital raising transactions we may enter into or the perception that such transactions could occur. 32 It is possible the Treasury or one or more private investors could end up owning a significant percentage of our stock and have the ability to exert significant influence over our management and operations. One of the primary capital raising initiatives set forth in our Capital Plan consists of the conversion of the preferred stock held by the Treasury into shares of our common stock. As described under "Business – Recent Developments" above, the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock currently held by the Treasury is convertible into shares of our common stock. Any such conversion is likely to result in the Treasury owning a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock, perhaps over 50%. Except with respect to certain designated matters, the Treasury has agreed to vote all shares of our common stock acquired upon conversion of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock or upon exercise of the amended and restated Warrant that are beneficially owned by it and its controlled affiliates in the same proportion (for, against, or abstain) as all other shares of our common stock are voted. The "designated matters" are (i) the election and removal of our directors, (ii) the approval of any merger, consolidation or similar transaction that requires the approval of our shareholders, (iii) the approval of a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or property, (iv) the approval of our dissolution, (v) the approval of any issuance of any of our securities on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, (vi) the approval of any amendment to our organizational documents on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, and (vii) the approval of any other matters reasonably incidental to the foregoing as determined by the Treasury. It is also possible that one or more investors, other than the Treasury, could end up as the owner of a significant portion of our common stock. This could occur, for example, if the Treasury transfers shares of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock it holds or, upon conversion of such stock, transfers to a third party the common stock issued upon conversion. It also could occur if one or more large investors make a significant investment in any offering of our capital stock that we undertake. Subject to the voting limitations applicable to the Treasury and its controlled affiliates described above, any such significant shareholder could exercise significant influence on matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. In addition, having a significant shareholder could make future transactions more difficult or even impossible to complete without the support of such shareholder, whose interests may not coincide with interests of smaller shareholders. These possibilities could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition to the foregoing, the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock we issued to the Treasury contains a provision that automatically increases the size of our board of directors by two persons and allows the Treasury to fill the two new director positions at such time, if any, as dividends payable on the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more, whether or not consecutive. We are currently deferring quarterly dividends on the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. If we continue to defer dividends each quarter, the Treasury would have the right to appoint these two directors beginning in approximately August 2011. An offering of our common stock could trigger an ownership change under federal tax law that will negatively affect our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we had federal loss carryforwards of approximately $56.1 million. Under federal tax law, our ability to utilize this carryforward and other deferred tax assets is limited if we are deemed to experience a change of ownership pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. This would result in our loss of the benefit of these deferred tax assets. Please see the more detailed discussion of these tax rules under “Results of Operations - Income Tax Expense (Benefit)” in our annual report to shareholders included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 33 The trading price of our common stock may be subject to continued significant fluctuations and volatility. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to, among other things: · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results, particularly if such results vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, and investors, including with respect to further loan losses or vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies expenses we may incur; · announcements regarding significant transactions in which we may engage, including the initiatives that are part of our Capital Plan; · market assessments regarding such transactions, including the timing, terms, and likelihood of success of any offering of our common stock; · developments relating to litigation or other proceedings that involve us; · changes or perceived changes in our operations or business prospects; · legislative or regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our businesses and operations; · the failure of general market and economic conditions to stabilize and recover, particularly with respect to economic conditions in Michigan, and the pace of any such stabilization and recovery; · the possible delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq or perceptions regarding the likelihood of such delisting; · the operating and share price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; · future offerings by us of debt, preferred stock, or trust preferred securities, each of which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation and for purposes of dividend distributions; · actions of our current shareholders, including future sales of common stock by existing shareholders and our directors and executive officers; and · other changes in U.S. or global financial markets, economies, and market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general, and our common stock in particular, have experienced significant volatility since October 2007 and continue to experience significant price and volume volatility. As a result, the market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may or may not be related to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. 34 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 