ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. We face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems, and a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, and insurance companies, which are not subject to the same degree of regulation as that imposed on bank holding companies. As a result, these non-bank competitors may have an advantage over us in providing certain services, and this competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our loan portfolio. Our success depends to a great extent upon the general economic conditions in Michigan’s lower peninsula. We have in general experienced a slowing economy in Michigan since 2001. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking services to customers primarily in Michigan’s lower peninsula. Our loan portfolio, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans will be impacted by local economic conditions. An economic slowdown could have many adverse consequences, including the following: – Loan delinquencies may increase; – Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; – Demand for our products and services may decline; and – Collateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans. In particular during 2006 our level of non-performing loans, net loan charge-offs, loan delinquencies and provision for loan losses all increased over the prior year. We may be unable to maintain our historical growth rate, which may adversely impact our results of operation and financial condition. To achieve our growth, we have opened additional branches and acquired other financial institutions and branches. We may be unable to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow at all, and we may encounter difficulties obtaining the funding and capital necessary to support our growth. Various factors, such as economic conditions, competition, and regulatory considerations, may impede or prohibit the opening of new branch offices. In addition, we may have difficulty identifying suitable financial institutions and other non-banking entities that we desire to acquire that are available for sale. Further, our inability to attract and retain experienced bankers may adversely affect our internal growth. A significant decrease in our historical rate of growth may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our banks and their operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority, and operations, which could increase our costs of doing business and, as a result, give an advantage to our competitors who may not be subject to similar legislative and regulatory requirements. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory power may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 