ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our results of operations, financial condition, and business may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to successfully implement our Capital Plan. Our Capital Plan, which is described in more detail under “Business – Recent Developments” above, has a primary objective of achieving and thereafter maintaining certain minimum capital ratios required by resolutions adopted by our bank's Board of Directors in December 2009 (as subsequently amended). Since those resolutions were adopted, we have engaged in various transactions to help us achieve the minimum capital ratios set forth in the Capital Plan, which are also described under "Business – Recent Developments" above. As of December 31, 2012, our bank met both of the minimum capital ratios set forth in the resolutions. However, we have not fully implemented our Capital Plan. The final initiative of our Capital Plan is a public offering of our common stock for cash. As discussed under "Business – Recent Developments" above, we initially anticipated conducting a new cash equity raise of not less than $100 million, which would allow us to exercise our right to compel a conversion of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock held by the Treasury into shares of our common stock (subject to the satisfaction of certain other conditions, as described in "Business – Recent Developments" above). We are currently evaluating the merits of a smaller capital raise with a goal of preserving the potential future use of our net deferred tax asset, which totaled approximately $65.1 million as of December 31, 2012, and on which we have established a full valuation allowance. This evaluation will also take into account our ongoing operating results, as well as input from our financial advisors and the Treasury. Whatever strategy we pursue to reach the objectives of the Capital Plan will involve risks and uncertainties. The successful implementation of our Capital Plan is, in many respects, largely out of our control as it primarily depends on factors such as our ability to raise new capital, which depends on factors such as the stability of the financial markets, other macro economic conditions, and investors’ perception of the ability of the Michigan economy to continue to recover from the recession. In addition, other risks, including each of those described in these "Risk Factors," could negatively affect our operating performance in significant ways, which would in turn have a negative impact on our ability to reach the goals set forth in our Capital Plan. If we are unable to maintain the minimum capital ratios set forth in our Capital Plan, it would likely materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the value of our securities. An inability to improve and maintain our capital position would make it very difficult for us to withstand losses as a result of economic difficulties in Michigan and other factors, as described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. It is possible that our bank’s capital could fall below the levels necessary to remain well-capitalized under federal regulatory standards. In that case, our primary bank regulators may impose regulatory restrictions and requirements on us through a regulatory enforcement action. If our bank fails to remain well-capitalized under federal regulatory standards, it will be prohibited from accepting or renewing brokered deposits without the prior consent of the FDIC, which would likely have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. If our regulators take enforcement action against us, it would likely increase our expenses (due to additional costs associated with complying with such enforcement action) and could limit our business operations (due to restrictions imposed by the enforcement action). There could be other expenses associated with a deterioration of our capital, such as increased deposit insurance premiums payable to the FDIC. If we do not remain well-capitalized, meet certain minimum capital levels or certain profitability requirements or if we incur a rapid decline in net worth we could lose our ability to sell and/or service loans to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. This could impact our ability to generate gains on the sale of loans and generate servicing income. A forced liquidation of our servicing portfolio could also impact the value that could be recovered on this asset. Fannie Mae has the most stringent eligibility requirements covering capital levels, profitability and decline in net worth. Fannie Mae requires seller/servicers to be well-capitalized. For the profitability requirement, we cannot record four or more consecutive quarterly losses and experience a 30% decline in net worth over the same period. Finally, our net worth cannot decline by more than 25% in one quarter or more than 40% over two consecutive quarters. The highest level of capital we are required to maintain is at least $2.5 million plus 0.25% of loans serviced for Freddie Mac. Additional restrictions would make it increasingly difficult for us to withstand any future deterioration in economic conditions, any deterioration in our loan portfolio, or any additional charges related to estimated potential incurred losses for Mepco from vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies. We could then be required to engage in a sale or other transaction with a third party or our bank could be placed into receivership by bank regulators. Any such event could be expected to result in a loss of the entire value of our outstanding shares of common stock and it could also result in a loss of the entire value of our outstanding trust preferred securities and preferred stock. 24 We may not achieve results similar to our current financial projections. In our annual report, to be delivered to shareholders in connection with the April 23, 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (filed as exhibit 13 to this report on Form 10-K), we disclose certain information regarding our potential future financial performance, including our belief that our bank can remain above “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes for the foreseeable future, even without additional capital, and maintain the bank regulatory capital ratios required by the Capital Plan. These projections and assumptions were based on information about circumstances and conditions existing as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The projections are based on estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and, though considered reasonable by us, are subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that actual results will not be significantly different than the information disclosed. It is possible that our bank may not be able to remain well-capitalized as we work through asset quality issues and seek to return to consistent profitability. Any significant deterioration in or inability to improve our capital position would make it very difficult for us to withstand losses that we may incur and that may be increased or made more likely as a result of economic difficulties and other factors. We do not intend to update any such forward-looking information. Neither we nor any other person or entity assumes any responsibility for the accuracy or validity of these projections, as the projections are not, and should not be taken as, a guarantee of our future financial performance or condition. We have credit risk inherent in our loan portfolios, and our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their respective terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to cover any losses we may incur. We have experienced and may continue to experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. Non-performing loans amounted to $32.9 million and $59.9 million at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. Our allowance coverage ratio of non-performing loans was 134.4% and 98.3% at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. In determining the size of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of current economic conditions. If our assumptions or judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover certain loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio, and adjustments may be necessary to account for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would adversely impact our operating results. Although we perform periodic internal testing of our loan portfolio to help ensure the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, if the assumptions or judgments used in these analyses prove to be incorrect, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would adversely impact our operating results. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs, notwithstanding any internal analysis that has been performed. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, and particularly by economic conditions in Michigan. Our success depends to a great extent upon the general economic conditions in Michigan’s Lower Peninsula. We have in general experienced a slowing economy in Michigan since 2001, although economic conditions in the state began to show signs of improvement during 2010 and generally these improvements have continued, albeit at a slower pace. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking services to customers primarily in Michigan’s lower peninsula. Our loan portfolio, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans will be impacted by local economic conditions. The economic difficulties faced in Michigan have had and may continue to have many adverse consequences, including the following: 25 ● Loan delinquencies may increase; ● Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; ● Demand for our products and services may decline; and ● Collateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans. Current market developments, particularly in real estate markets, may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing market in recent years, with lower home prices and increased foreclosures and unemployment, resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by us and other financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Although we believe the Michigan economy started to show signs of stabilization beginning in 2010, it is possible conditions will not stabilize or recover at or even close to the pace expected. Negative market developments in the future could negatively affect consumer confidence levels and may contribute to increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. The assumptions we make in calculating estimated potential losses on vehicle service contract counterparty receivables for Mepco may be inaccurate, which could lead to vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies expense that is materially greater than the charges we have taken to date. One of our subsidiaries, Mepco, is engaged in the business of acquiring and servicing payment plans for consumers who purchase vehicle service contracts and similar products. The receivables generated in this business involve a different, and generally higher, level of risk of delinquency or collection than generally associated with the loan portfolios of our bank. Upon cancellation of the payment plans acquired by Mepco (whether due to voluntary cancellation by the consumer or non-payment), the third party entities that provide the service contracts or other products to consumers (which we refer to as Mepco's "counterparties") become obligated to refund Mepco the unearned portion of the sales price previously funded by Mepco. These obligations of Mepco's counterparties are shown as "vehicle service contract counterparty receivables" in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. At December 31, 2012, the aggregate amount of such obligations owing to Mepco by counterparties, net of write-downs and reserves made through the recognition of "vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies expense," totaled $18.4 million. This compares to a balance of $29.3 million and $37.3 million at December 31, 2011, and December 31, 2010, respectively. In most cases, there is no collateral to secure the counterparties’ refund obligations to Mepco, but Mepco has the contractual right to offset unpaid refund obligations against amounts Mepco would otherwise be obligated to fund to the counterparties. In addition, even when other collateral is involved, the refund obligations of these counterparties are not fully secured. Mepco incurs losses when it is unable to fully recover funds owing to it by counterparties upon cancellation of the underlying service contracts. Historically, Mepco's counterparties generally fulfilled their obligations to Mepco to refund Mepco the amounts owed upon cancellation of the service contracts. However, events in the vehicle service contract industry starting in approximately 2009 significantly increased the size of these counterparty obligations. These events, which included allegations that several service contract providers violated telemarketing and other consumer protection laws, contributed to significantly higher cancellation rates for outstanding service contracts and significantly lower sales of new service contract products which, in turn, contributed to several of Mepco's counterparties either going out of business or defaulting on their obligations to Mepco. Although Mepco generally has recourse against more than one counterparty upon the cancellation of a service contract, Mepco has not historically had to enforce its rights against one counterparty (e.g., the administrator of a particular service contract that cancelled) based upon the default of a second counterparty (e.g., the seller of the service contract). As Mepco has begun to enforce these rights in recent years, certain of its counterparties are challenging their payment obligations to Mepco. Mepco is currently involved in litigation with several counterparties to enforce Mepco's rights to collect refunds owing from those counterparties. We expect we will need to initiate additional lawsuits against other counterparties that do not pay their obligations to Mepco. 26 In evaluating the collectability of these receivables, Mepco estimates probable incurred losses that Mepco expects to incur as a result of being unable to fully collect all amounts owing to Mepco. The aggregate amount of these probable incurred losses (shown as vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations) recorded in past years has grown from $0 in 2007, to $1.0 million in 2008, to $31.2 million in 2009, and declined to $18.6 million in 2010, $11.0 million in 2011, and $1.6 million in 2012. The determination of these losses requires a significant amount of judgment because a number of factors can influence the amount of loss that we may ultimately incur. These factors include our estimate of future cancellations of vehicle service contracts (including cancellations that may result from a counterparty discontinuing its business operations), our evaluation of collateral that may be available to recover funds due from our counterparties, and the amount collected from counterparties in connection with their contractual obligations. We apply a rigorous process, based upon observable contract activity and past experience, to estimate probable incurred losses for our vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies, but there can be no assurance that our modeling process will successfully identify all such losses. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the numerous and complex assumptions made, actual losses could exceed the charges we have taken to date, and the additional losses we incur could be material. Mepco has historically contributed a meaningful amount of profit to our consolidated results of operations, but we have shrunk the size of its business significantly since 2009 as a result of the events and risks referenced above. For 2008 and 2007, Mepco had net income of $10.7 million and $5.5 million, respectively. With the counterparty losses experienced by Mepco since late 2009 (as referenced in the previous risk factor), Mepco reported net losses of $11.7 million in 2009 (which included a $16.7 million goodwill impairment charge), $1.4 million in 2010, and $4.8 million in 2011. While Mepco reported net income of $1.7 million in 2012, this is significantly less than its contribution to profit prior to 2009. As a result of adverse events described above and unique risks within the vehicle service contract industry, we have made a concerted effort to significantly reduce the size and scope of Mepco's business. Net payment plan receivables have been reduced from $406.3 million (or approximately 13.7% of total assets) at December 31, 2009, to $201.3 million (or approximately 7.9% of total assets) at December 31, 2010, to $115.0 million (or approximately 5.0% of total assets) at December 31, 2011, to $84.7 million (or approximately 4.2% of total assets) at December 31, 2012. This represents a decline of almost 80% since 2009. We expect the amount of total payment plan receivables will decline only modestly during 2013. This decline in payment plan receivables has had an adverse impact on our net interest income and net interest margin. Even though the size of Mepco's business has been significantly reduced in recent years, it still presents unique market, operational, and internal control challenges and risks. Mepco faces unique operational and internal control challenges due to the relatively rapid turnover of its portfolio and high volume of new payment plans. Mepco's business is highly specialized, and its results of operation depend largely on the continued services of its executives and other key employees familiar with its business. In addition, because activity in this market is conducted primarily through relationships with unaffiliated vehicle service contract direct marketers and administrators and because the customers are located nationwide, risk management and general supervisory oversight are generally more difficult than in our bank. The risk of third party fraud is also higher as a result of these factors. Acts of fraud are difficult to detect and deter, and we cannot assure investors that the risk management procedures and controls will prevent losses from fraudulent activity. Although we have an internal control system at Mepco, we may be exposed to the risk of material loss in this business. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to secure adequate funding. Our use of wholesale funding sources exposes us to liquidity risk and potential earnings volatility. We utilize wholesale funding, including Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings and reciprocal and brokered deposits, to augment our core deposits to fund our business. As of December 31, 2012, our use of such wholesale funding sources amounted to approximately $65.5 million or 3.6% of total funding. Because wholesale funding sources are affected by general market conditions, the availability of funding from wholesale sources may be dependent on the confidence these parties have in our banking operations. The continued availability to us of these funding sources is uncertain and may be difficult for us to retain or replace at attractive rates as they mature. Our liquidity will be constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding sources or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest or at all. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loans, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly, in order to repay obligations as they mature. 27 The constraint on our liquidity would be exacerbated if we were to experience a reduction in our core deposits, and we cannot be sure we will be able to maintain our current level of core deposits. In particular, those deposits that are currently uninsured or those deposits that were in non-interest bearing transaction accounts and had unlimited deposit insurance under the FDIC Transaction Account Guarantee Program ("TAGP") only through December 31, 2012 (in accordance with provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act), may be particularly susceptible to outflow. At December 31, 2012, we had $107.8 million of uninsured deposits and an additional $175.8 million of deposits that were in non-interest bearing transaction accounts and fully insured through December 31, 2012 under the TAGP. A reduction in core deposits would increase our need to rely on wholesale funding sources, at a time when our ability to do so may be more restricted, as described above. In addition, if we fail to remain "well-capitalized" under federal regulatory standards, we will be prohibited from accepting or renewing brokered deposits without the prior consent of the FDIC. As of December 31, 2012, we had brokered deposits of approximately $14.6 million. Approximately $11.4 million of these brokered deposits mature during the next 12 months. As a result, any such restrictions on our ability to access brokered deposits are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot be sure we will be able to maintain our current level of core deposits. Our deposit customers could move their deposits in reaction to media reports about bank failures in general or, particularly, if our financial condition were to deteriorate. A reduction in core deposits would increase our need to rely on wholesale funding sources, at a time when our ability to do so may be more restricted, as described above. Our financial performance will be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources. In such case, our net interest income and results of operations would be adversely affected. Dividends being deferred on our outstanding trust preferred securities and our outstanding preferred stock are accumulating and are expected to continue to increase as we have no current plans to resume such dividend payments at any time in the near future. We are currently deferring payment of quarterly dividends on our preferred stock held by the Treasury, which pays cumulative dividends quarterly at a rate of 5% per annum through February 14, 2014, and 9% per annum thereafter. In addition, we have exercised our right to defer all quarterly interest payments on the subordinated debentures we issued to our trust subsidiaries. As a result, all quarterly dividends on the related trust preferred securities are also being deferred. We may defer such interest payments for a total of 20 consecutive calendar quarters without causing an event of default under the documents governing these securities. After such period, we must pay all deferred interest and resume quarterly interest payments or we will be in default. Our right to continue to defer these interest payments without being in default of the related debt instruments will expire in late 2014. We do not have any current plans to resume dividend payments on our outstanding trust preferred securities or our outstanding preferred stock. If and when either of such payments resume, however, the accrued amounts must be paid and made current. We face uncertainty with respect to legislative efforts by the federal government to help stabilize the U.S. financial system, address problems that caused the recent crisis in the U.S. financial markets, or otherwise regulate the financial services industry. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the federal government enacted new laws intended to strengthen and restore confidence in the U.S. financial system. See "Business—Regulatory Developments" above for additional information regarding these developments. In addition, additional legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future that could adversely impact us. For example, on July 21, 2010, the President signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law, which included the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with power to promulgate and, with respect to financial institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, enforce consumer protection laws; the creation of the Financial Stability Oversight Council chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to identify institutions and practices that might pose a systemic risk; provisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation of all companies whose securities are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission; a provision that broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments and permanently increases FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000; a provision under which interchange fees for debit cards of issuers with at least $10 billion in assets are set by the Federal Reserve under a restrictive "reasonable and proportional cost" per transaction standard; a provision that requires bank regulators to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as strong as those required for their insured depository subsidiaries, subject to a grandfather clause for financial institutions with less than $15 billion in assets as of December 31, 2009; and new restrictions on how mortgage brokers and loan originators may be compensated. Although a number of the regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act have been issued, many of the new requirements have not yet been implemented and will likely be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. As these provisions continue to be implemented, we expect they may impact our business operations and may negatively affect our earnings and financial condition by affecting our ability to offer certain products or earn certain fees and by exposing us to increased compliance and other costs. At this time, it is difficult to assess the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business. This legislation as well as other similar federal initiatives could have a material adverse impact on our business. 28 In addition, on June 4, 2012, the Federal Reserve proposed new regulatory capital requirements for financial institutions. These new capital requirements, if adopted as outlined in the proposals issued by the Federal Reserve, would have a material impact on the banking industry, including our organization. In general, the proposed new rules would significantly increase the need for Tier 1 common equity capital and substantially impact the calculation of risk-weighted assets. We have credit risk inherent in our securities portfolio. We maintain diversified securities portfolios, which include obligations of the Treasury and government-sponsored agencies as well as securities issued by states and political subdivisions, mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. We also invest in capital securities, which include preferred stocks and trust preferred securities. We seek to limit credit losses in our securities portfolios by generally purchasing only highly rated securities (rated "AA" or higher by a major debt rating agency) or by conducting significant due diligence on the issuer for unrated securities. However, gross unrealized losses on securities available for sale in our portfolio totaled approximately $2.6 million as of December 31, 2012 (compared to approximately $5.2 million as of December 31, 2011). We believe these unrealized losses are temporary in nature and are expected to be recovered within a reasonable time period as we believe we have the ability to hold the securities to maturity or until such time as the unrealized losses reverse. However, we evaluate securities available for sale for other than temporary impairment (OTTI) at least quarterly and more frequently when economic or market concerns warrant such evaluation. Those evaluations may result in OTTI charges to our earnings. In addition to these impairment charges, we may, in the future, experience additional losses in our securities portfolio which may result in charges that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our mortgage-banking revenues are susceptible to substantial variations dependent largely upon factors that we do not control, such as market interest rates. A portion of our revenues are derived from gains on mortgage loans. We realized net gains of $17.3 million on mortgage loans during 2012 compared to $9.3 million during 2011. These net gains primarily depend on the volume of loans we sell, which in turn depends on our ability to originate real estate mortgage loans and the demand for fixed-rate obligations and other loans that are outside of our established interest-rate risk parameters. Net gains on mortgage loans are also dependent upon economic and competitive factors as well as our ability to effectively manage exposure to changes in interest rates. Consequently, they can often be a volatile part of our overall revenues. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Our interest income and interest expense are affected by general economic conditions and by the policies of regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by, among other factors, changes in the following: ● inflation or deflation rates; ● levels of business activity; ● recession; ● unemployment levels; ● money supply; ● domestic or foreign events; and ● instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. 29 We rely heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations and the ability to implement our Capital Plan and business strategies. The continuity of our operations is influenced strongly by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams of each of our lines of business will continue to be important to successful implementation of our Capital Plan and our strategies. We do not have employment or non-compete agreements with any of our executives or other key employees. In addition, we face restrictions on our ability to compensate our executives as a result of our participation in the CPP under TARP. Many of our competitors do not face these same restrictions. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. We face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings banks, finance companies, and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems, and a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, and insurance companies, which are not subject to the same degree of regulation as that imposed on bank holding companies. As a result, these non-bank competitors may have an advantage over us in providing certain services, and this competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We will face challenges in our ability to achieve future growth in the near term. Our current capital position has prevented us from pursuing any meaningful growth initiatives, and we have taken actions to shrink our balance sheet, including closing a total of 7 branches in 2012 and the sale of an additional 21 branches. Our current focus, as discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our annual report to shareholders included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is to strengthen our capital base, as opposed to pursuing growth. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. We are generally subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by federal and state banking authorities. The burden of regulatory compliance has increased under current legislation and banking regulations and is likely to continue to have a significant impact on the financial services industry. Recent legislative and regulatory changes as well as changes in regulatory enforcement policies and capital adequacy guidelines are likely to increase our cost of doing business. In addition, future legislative or regulatory changes could have a substantial impact on us. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority, and operations; increase our costs of doing business; and, as a result, give an advantage to our competitors who may not be subject to similar legislative and regulatory requirements. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory power may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our earnings. As an FDIC-insured institution, we are required to pay deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. Due to higher levels of bank failures beginning in 2008, the FDIC has taken numerous steps to restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund. Our deposit insurance expense increased substantially in 2009 compared to prior periods, reflecting higher rates and a special assessment of $1.4 million in the second quarter of 2009. This industry-wide special assessment was equal to 5 basis points on our total assets less our Tier 1 capital. Since April 1, 2011, banks have been charged FDIC insurance premiums based on net assets (defined as the quarter to date average daily total assets less the quarter to date average daily Tier 1 capital) rather than based on average domestic deposits. Initial base assessment rates vary from 0.05% to 0.35% of net assets and may be adjusted between negative 0.025% and positive 0.10% for an unsecured debt adjustment and a brokered deposit adjustment. This new FDIC assessment system has resulted in a decline in our deposit insurance premiums from $6.8 million in 2010 to $3.5 million in 2011 to $3.3 million in 2012. However, if our financial condition worsens and our Tier 1 capital deteriorates, our deposit insurance expense may increase. The amount of deposit insurance that we are required to pay is also subject to factors outside of our control, including bank failures and regulatory initiatives. Such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. 30 Initiatives we may take to fully implement our Capital Plan could be highly dilutive to our existing common shareholders. Our Capital Plan contemplates capital raising initiatives that involve the issuance of a significant number of shares of our common stock, as described under "Business – Recent Developments" above. While we are currently re-evaluating the best strategy to implement our Capital Plan, any pursuit of these capital raising initiatives is likely to be highly dilutive to our existing common shareholders and their voting power. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the dilutive effect of the capital raising transactions we may enter into or the perception that such transactions could occur. It is possible the Treasury or one or more private investors could end up owning a significant percentage of our stock and have the ability to exert significant influence over our management and operations. One of the primary capital raising initiatives set forth in our Capital Plan consists of the conversion of the preferred stock held by the Treasury into shares of our common stock. As described under "Business – Recent Developments" above, the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock currently held by the Treasury is convertible into shares of our common stock. Any such conversion is likely to result in the Treasury owning a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock, perhaps over 50%. Except with respect to certain designated matters, the Treasury has agreed to vote all shares of our common stock acquired upon conversion of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock or upon exercise of the amended and restated Warrant that are beneficially owned by it and its controlled affiliates in the same proportion (for, against, or abstain) as all other shares of our common stock are voted. The "designated matters" are (i) the election and removal of our directors, (ii) the approval of any merger, consolidation or similar transaction that requires the approval of our shareholders, (iii) the approval of a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or property, (iv) the approval of our dissolution, (v) the approval of any issuance of any of our securities on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, (vi) the approval of any amendment to our organizational documents on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, and (vii) the approval of any other matters reasonably incidental to the foregoing as determined by the Treasury. It is also possible that one or more investors, other than the Treasury, could end up as the owner of a significant portion of our common stock. This could occur, for example, if the Treasury transfers shares of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock it holds or, upon conversion of such stock, transfers to a third party the common stock issued upon conversion. It also could occur if one or more large investors make a significant investment in any offering of our capital stock that we undertake. Subject to the voting limitations applicable to the Treasury and its controlled affiliates described above, any such significant shareholder could exercise significant influence on matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. In addition, having a significant shareholder could make future transactions more difficult or even impossible to complete without the support of such shareholder, whose interests may not coincide with interests of smaller shareholders. These possibilities could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition to the foregoing, the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock we issued to the Treasury contains a provision providing that, if dividends on the preferred stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more, whether consecutive or not, the holders of the preferred stock have the right to elect two additional directors at our next annual meeting of shareholders or at a special meeting of shareholders called for that purpose. These directors would be elected annually and serve until all accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock have been paid. Because we have deferred dividends on the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock for at least six quarterly dividend periods, the Treasury currently has the right to elect two directors to our board. At this time, in lieu of electing such directors, the Treasury requested us to allow (and we agreed) an observer to attend our Board of Directors meetings beginning in the third quarter of 2011. The Treasury continues to retain the right to elect two directors as described above. An offering of our common stock could trigger an ownership change under federal tax law that will negatively affect our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets in the future. As of December 31, 2012, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $111.9 million. Under federal tax law, our ability to utilize this carryforward and other deferred tax assets is limited if we are deemed to experience a change of ownership pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. This would result in our loss of the benefit of these deferred tax assets. Please see the more detailed discussion of these tax rules under "Results of Operations - Income Taxes" in our annual report to shareholders included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 31 The trading price of our common stock may be subject to continued significant fluctuations and volatility. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to, among other things: · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results, particularly if such results vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, and investors, including with respect to further loan losses or vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies expenses we may incur; · announcements regarding significant transactions in which we may engage, including the initiatives that are part of our Capital Plan; · market assessments regarding such transactions, including the timing, terms, and likelihood of success of any offering of our common stock; · developments relating to litigation or other proceedings that involve us; · changes or perceived changes in our operations or business prospects; · legislative or regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our businesses and operations; · the failure of general market and economic conditions to stabilize and recover, particularly with respect to economic conditions in Michigan, and the pace of any such stabilization and recovery; · the possible delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq or perceptions regarding the likelihood of such delisting; · the operating and share price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; · future offerings by us of debt, preferred stock, or trust preferred securities, each of which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation and for purposes of dividend distributions; · actions of our current shareholders, including future sales of common stock by existing shareholders and our directors and executive officers; and · other changes in U.S. or global financial markets, economies, and market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular, have experienced significant volatility since October 2007 and continue to experience significant price and volume volatility. As a result, the market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may or may not be related to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. 32 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 