ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) We have identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require us to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding management’s judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. See note #1, “Accounting Policies” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our annual report, to be delivered to shareholders in connection with the April 21, 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (filed as exhibit 13 to this report on Form 10-K). The trading price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to, among other things: ·variations in quarterly or annual results of operations; ·changes in dividends per share; ·deterioration in asset quality, including declining real estate values; ·changes in interest rates; ·significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; ·regulatory actions, including changes to regulatory capital levels, the components of regulatory capital and how regulatory capital is calculated; ·new regulations that limit or significantly change our ability to continue to offer products or services; ·volatility of stock market prices and volumes; ·issuance of additional shares of common stock or other debt or equity securities; ·changes in market valuations of similar companies; ·changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance or recommendations; ·perceptions in the marketplace regarding the financial services industry, us and/or our competitors; and/or ·the occurrence of any one or more of the risk factors described above. 26 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 