ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) management experienced in banking and financial services. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams of each of our lines of business will continue to be important to successful implementation of our strategies. We do not have employment or non-compete agreements with any of these key employees. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. We face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings banks, finance companies, and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems, and a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, and insurance companies, which are not subject to the same degree of regulation as that imposed on bank holding companies. As a result, these non-bank competitors may have an advantage over us in providing certain services, and this competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to maintain our historical growth rate, which may adversely impact our results of operation and financial condition. To achieve our growth, we have opened additional branches and acquired other financial institutions and branches. We may be unable to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow at all, and we may encounter difficulties obtaining the funding and capital necessary to support our growth. Various factors, such as economic conditions, competition, and regulatory considerations, may impede or prohibit the opening of new branch offices. In addition, we may have difficulty identifying suitable financial institutions and other non-banking entities that we desire to acquire that are available for sale. Further, our inability to attract and retain experienced bankers may adversely affect our internal growth. A significant decrease in our historical rate of growth may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. In addition to the regulatory programs and their restrictions described above, we are generally subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our Bank and their operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority, and operations, which could increase our costs of doing business and, as a result, give an advantage to our competitors who may not be subject to similar legislative and regulatory requirements. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory power may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Future issuances of additional securities could result in dilution to our current shareholders. Subject to the restrictions imposed on us under the CPP, we may determine from time to time to issue additional securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or for other purposes. These issuances of our securities would dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders. We may not pay dividends on your common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. See Item 1 “Business—Regulatory Developments” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Table of Contents 