ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our results of operations, financial condition, and business may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to successfully implement our Capital Plan. Our Capital Plan, which is described in more detail under Item 1 — “Business” above, contemplates three primary initiatives that have been or will be undertaken in order to increase our common equity capital, decrease our expenses, and enable us to withstand and better respond to current market conditions and the potential for worsening market conditions. Those three initiatives are (1) an offer we have made to the UST to issue shares of our common stock in exchange for up to the entire $72 million in aggregate liquidation value of the shares of preferred stock held by the UST; (2) an offer to exchange shares of our common stock for our outstanding trust preferred securities; and (3) a public offering of our common stock for cash. We cannot be sure we will be able to successfully execute on these identified initiatives in a timely manner or at all. The successful implementation of our Capital Plan is, in many respects, largely out of our control and depends on factors such as the willingness of the UST to exchange the shares of our preferred stock it holds for shares of our common stock, the willingness of holders of our trust preferred securities to exchange such securities for shares of our common stock, and our ability to sell our common stock or other securities for cash. These factors, in turn, may depend on factors outside of our control such as the stability of the financial markets, other macro economic conditions, and investors’ perception of the ability of the Michigan economy to recover from the current recession. If we are unable to achieve the minimum capital ratios set forth in our Capital Plan in the near future, it would likely materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the value of our securities. An inability to improve our capital position would make it very difficult for us to withstand continued losses that we may incur and that may be increased or made more likely as a result of continued economic difficulties and other factors, as described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. In addition, we believe that if we are unable to achieve the minimum capital ratios set forth in our Capital Plan by or within a reasonable time after the April 30, 2010 deadline imposed by our Board and if our financial condition and performance otherwise fail to improve significantly, it is likely we will not be able to remain well-capitalized under federal regulatory standards. In that case, we also expect our primary bank regulators would impose additional regulatory restrictions and requirements on us through a regulatory enforcement action. If we fail to remain well-capitalized under federal regulatory standards, we will be prohibited from accepting or renewing brokered deposits without the prior consent of the FDIC, which would likely have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. If our regulators take enforcement action against us, we could be required to take affirmative steps in an effort to improve our overall condition and we would likely be required to perform additional reporting to our banking regulators. We believe such additional reporting would increase our expenses and divert management attention and other resources from the operation of our Bank. Any regulatory enforcement action could also limit our ability to develop new business lines and/or could require the sale of certain assets. There could be other expenses associated with a continued deterioration of our capital, such as increased deposit insurance premiums payable to the FDIC. These additional restrictions would make it increasingly difficult for us to withstand the current economic conditions and any continued deterioration in our loan portfolio. In that case, we may be required to engage in a sale or other transaction with a third party or our subsidiary Bank could be placed into receivership by bank regulators. Any such event could be expected to result in a loss of the entire value of our outstanding shares of common stock and could also result in a loss of the entire value of our outstanding trust preferred securities and preferred stock. We have credit risk inherent in our asset portfolios, and our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their respective terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We have experienced and may continue to experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the size of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of current economic conditions. If our assumptions or judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance for loan 23 Table of Contents losses may not be sufficient to cover certain loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio, and adjustments may be necessary to account for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would adversely impact our operating results. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, and particularly by the continued economic slowdown in Michigan. Our success depends to a great extent upon the general economic conditions in Michigan’s Lower Peninsula. We have in general experienced a slowing economy in Michigan since 2001. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking services to customers primarily in Michigan’s Lower Peninsula. Our loan portfolio, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans will be impacted by local economic conditions. The continued economic difficulties faced in Michigan has had and may continue to have many adverse consequences, including the following: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • Demand for our products and services may decline; and • Collateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans. Additionally, the overall capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption during the past two years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. As a consequence of the U.S. recession, business activity across a wide range of industries faces serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly and may continue to increase. In particular, according to data published by the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, Michigan’s unemployment rate in December 2009 of 14.6% was the worst among all states. During the past year, the general business environment has continued to have an overall adverse effect on our business, and this environment is not expected to improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations to continue to be adversely affected. Current market developments, particularly in real estate markets, may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing market in recent years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by us and other financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. As a result of these conditions, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market developments may continue to negatively affect consumer confidence levels and may continue to contribute to increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and 24 Table of Contents provisions for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. Recent events in the vehicle service contract industry have increased our credit risk and reputation risk and could expose us to significant losses. One of our subsidiaries, Mepco Finance Corporation, is engaged in the business of acquiring (on a full recourse basis) and servicing payment plans for consumers who purchase vehicle service contracts and similar products. The receivables generated in this business involve a different, and generally higher, level of risk of delinquency or collection than generally associated with the loan portfolios of our Bank. Upon cancellation of the payment plans acquired by Mepco (whether due to voluntary cancellation by the consumer or non-payment), the third party entities that provide the service contracts or other products to consumers become obligated to refund Mepco the unearned portion of the sales price previously funded by Mepco. The refund obligations of these counterparties are not fully secured. In addition, several of these providers, including the counterparty described in the next risk factor below and other companies from which Mepco has purchased payment plans, have been sued or are under investigation for alleged violations of telemarketing laws and other consumer protection laws. The actions have been brought primarily by state attorneys general and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) but there have also been class action and other private lawsuits filed. In some cases, the companies have been placed into receivership or have discontinued business. In addition, the allegations, particularly those relating to blatantly abusive telemarketing practices by a relatively small number of marketers, have resulted in a significant amount of negative publicity that has adversely affected and may in the future continue to adversely affect sales and customer cancellations of purchased products throughout the industry, which have already been negatively impacted by the economic recession. It is possible these events could also cause federal or state lawmakers to enact legislation to further regulate the industry. These events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on Mepco in several ways. First, we face increased risk with respect to certain counterparties defaulting in their contractual obligations to Mepco which could result in additional charges for losses if these counterparties go out of business. In 2009, we recorded a $31.2 million charge related to estimated potential losses for vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies. We may incur similar charges in the future. Second, these events have negatively affected sales and customer cancellations in the industry, which has had and is expected to continue to have a negative impact on the profitability of Mepco’s business. Largely as a result of these events, we recently wrote down all of the $16.7 million of goodwill associated with Mepco that was being carried on our balance sheet. In addition, if any federal or state investigation is expanded to include finance companies such as Mepco, Mepco will face additional legal and other expenses in connection with any such investigation. An increased level of private actions in which Mepco is named as a defendant will also cause Mepco to incur additional legal expenses as well as potential liability. Finally, Mepco has incurred and will likely continue to incur additional legal and other expenses, in general, in dealing with these industry problems. Mepco also faces unique operational and internal control challenges due to the relatively rapid turnover of its portfolio and high volume of new payment plans. Mepco’s business is highly specialized, and its success will depend largely on the continued services of its executives and other key employees familiar with its business. In addition, because financing in this market is conducted primarily through relationships with unaffiliated automobile service contract direct marketers and administrators and because the customers are located nationwide, risk management and general supervisory oversight is generally more difficult than in our bank. The risk of third party fraud is also higher as a result of these factors. Acts of fraud are difficult to detect and deter, and we cannot assure investors that the risk management procedures and controls will prevent losses from fraudulent activity. Although we have an internal control system at Mepco, we may be exposed to the risk of significant loss in this business. As of December 31, 2009, the net finance receivables held by Mepco represented approximately 13.7% of our consolidated assets. Mepco has significant exposure to a single counterparty that is experiencing extreme financial difficulties. The failure of this counterparty is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Over 40% of Mepco’s current outstanding receivables were purchased from a single counterparty. Beginning in the second half of 2009, this counterparty experienced decreased sales (and ceased all new sales in December of 25 Table of Contents 2009) and significantly increased levels of customer cancellations. Customer cancellations trigger an obligation of this counterparty to us to repay the unearned portion of the sales price for the payment plan previously advanced by us to the counterparty. In addition, this counterparty is subject to a multi-state attorney general investigation regarding certain of the counterparty’s business practices and multiple civil lawsuits. These events have increased costs for the counterparty, putting further pressure on its cash flow and profitability. In December of 2009, we were advised that this counterparty plans to wind down its business operations and is contemplating a bankruptcy filing in the near future. Mepco is actively working to reduce its credit exposure to this counterparty. The amount of payment plans (finance receivables) purchased from this counterparty and outstanding at December 31, 2009 totaled approximately $206.1 million. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, this counterparty owed Mepco $16.2 million for previously cancelled payment plans. The wind down of operations by this counterparty is likely to lead to substantial potential losses as this entity will not be in a position to honor its recourse obligations on payment plans that Mepco has purchased which are cancelled prior to payment in full. In that event, Mepco will seek to recover amounts owed by the counterparty from various co-obligors and guarantors and through the liquidation of certain collateral held by Mepco. However, we are not certain as to the amount of any such recoveries. In 2009, Mepco recorded an aggregate $19.0 million expense (as part of vehicle service contract counterparty contingencies that is included in non-interest expense) to establish a reserve for losses related to this counterparty. Mepco has historically contributed a meaningful amount of profit to our consolidated results of operations, but we expect the size of its business to shrink significantly beginning in 2010. For 2008 and 2007, Mepco had net income of $10.7 million and $5.5 million, respectively. With the counterparty losses experienced by Mepco late in 2009 (including those related to the counterparty described above) and a $16.7 million goodwill impairment charge, Mepco incurred an $11.7 million loss in 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the net finance receivables held by Mepco represented approximately 13.7% of our consolidated assets. However, as a result of the loss of business with the counterparty described above as well as our desire to reduce finance receivables as a percentage of total assets, we expect Mepco’s total earning assets to decrease by approximately 50% in 2010. As a result, the reduction in the size of Mepco’s business could adversely affect our financial results and make it more difficult for us to be profitable on a consolidated basis in the near future. We face uncertainty with respect to efforts by the federal government to help stabilize the U.S. financial system. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the federal government enacted new laws intended to strengthen and restore confidence in the U.S. financial system. See Item 1 — “Business—Regulatory Developments” above for additional information regarding these developments. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that such programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of these and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. In addition, these statutes are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the impact that any such changes will have on the effectiveness of the federal government’s efforts to stabilize the credit markets or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These federal initiatives could involve regulatory changes that may have an adverse impact on our business. We have credit risk inherent in our securities portfolio. We maintain diversified securities portfolios, which include obligations of the UST and government-sponsored agencies as well as securities issued by states and political subdivisions, mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. We also invest in capital securities, which include preferred stocks and trust preferred securities. We seek to limit credit losses in our securities portfolios by generally purchasing only highly rated securities (rated “AA” or higher by a major debt rating agency) or by conducting significant due diligence on the issuer for unrated securities. However, we may, in the future, experience additional losses in our securities portfolio which may result in charges that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Our mortgage-banking revenues are susceptible to substantial variations dependent largely upon factors that we do not control, such as market interest rates. A meaningful portion of our revenues are derived from gains on the sale of real estate mortgage loans. For 2009, these gains represented over 4% of our total revenues. These net gains primarily depend on the volume of loans we sell, which in turn depends on our ability to originate real estate mortgage loans and the demand for fixed-rate obligations and other loans that are outside of our established interest-rate risk parameters. Net gains on real estate mortgage loans are also dependent upon economic and competitive factors as well as our ability to effectively manage exposure to changes in interest rates. Consequently, they can often be a volatile part of our overall revenues. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Our interest income and interest expense are affected by general economic conditions and by the policies of regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by, among other factors, changes in the following: - inflation or deflation rates; - levels of business activity; - recession; - unemployment levels; - money supply; - domestic or foreign events; and - instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in accounting standards could impact our reported earnings. Financial accounting and reporting standards are periodically changed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC, and other regulatory authorities. Such changes affect how we are required to prepare and report our consolidated financial statements. These changes are often hard to predict and may materially impact our reported financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we may be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to secure adequate funding. Our use of wholesale funding sources exposes us to liquidity risk and potential earnings volatility. We rely on wholesale funding, including Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings, brokered deposits, and Federal Reserve Bank borrowings, to augment our core deposits to fund our business. As of December 31, 2009, our use of such wholesale funding sources amounted to approximately $760 million. Because wholesale funding sources are affected by general market conditions, the availability of funding from wholesale lenders may be dependent on the confidence these investors have in our commercial and consumer banking operations. The continued availability to us of these funding sources is uncertain, and brokered deposits may be difficult for us to retain or replace at attractive rates as they mature. Our liquidity will be constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding sources or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest or at all. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loans, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly, in order to repay obligations as they mature. In addition, if we fail to remain “well-capitalized” under federal regulatory standards, which is likely if we are unable to successfully implement our Capital Plan, we will be prohibited from accepting or renewing brokered deposits without the prior consent of the FDIC. As of December 31, 2009, we had brokered deposits of 27 Table of Contents approximately $629 million. As a result, any such restrictions on our ability to access brokered deposits is likely to have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain our current level of core deposits. Our deposit customers could move their deposits in reaction to media reports about bank failures in general (as discussed in a separate Risk Factor below) or in reaction to negative publicity we may receive as a result of the pursuit of our capital raising initiatives or, particularly, if we are unable to successfully complete such initiatives. A reduction in core deposits would increase our need to rely on wholesale funding sources, at a time when our ability to do so may be more restricted, as described above. Our financial performance will be materially affected if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources. In such case, our net interest income and results of operations would be adversely affected. We rely heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations and the ability to implement our Capital Plan. The continuity of our operations is influenced strongly by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams of each of our lines of business will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our Capital Plan and our strategies. We do not have employment or non-compete agreements with any of these key employees. In addition, we face restrictions on our ability to compensate our executives as a result of our participation in the UST’s Capital Purchase Program under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Many of our competitors do not face these same restrictions. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. We face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings banks, finance companies, and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems, and a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, and insurance companies, which are not subject to the same degree of regulation as that imposed on bank holding companies. As a result, these non-bank competitors may have an advantage over us in providing certain services, and this competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our current capital position and the tough economic climate in Michigan will make future growth in the near term very challenging. We have recently taken certain actions to deleverage our balance sheet, which has had and is expected to continue to have an adverse impact on our net interest income. Although we have also undertaken actions intended to reduce our expenses and continue to do so, we may not be able to reduce our expenses on a basis commensurate with the reduction in our net interest income, which causes a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, even if we are successful in raising additional capital through the initiatives described in our Capital Plan, our ability to achieve future growth in the near term will be very challenging in the current economic environment in Michigan. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. We are generally subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by federal and state banking authorities. The burden of regulatory compliance has increased under current legislation and banking regulations and is likely to continue to have a significant impact on the financial services industry. Recent legislative and regulatory changes as well as changes in regulatory enforcement policies and capital adequacy guidelines are likely to increase our cost of doing business. In addition, future legislative or regulatory changes could have a substantial impact on us and our Bank and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority, and operations, increase our costs of doing business and, as a result, give an advantage to our competitors who may not be subject to similar legislative and regulatory 28 Table of Contents requirements. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory power may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. There have been numerous media reports about bank failures, which we expect will continue as additional banks fail. These reports have created concerns among certain of our customers, particularly those with deposit balances in excess of deposit insurance limits. We have proactively sought to provide appropriate information to our deposit customers about our organization in order to retain our business and deposit relationships. The outflow of significant amounts of deposits could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations. If successful, the initiatives set forth in our Capital Plan will be highly dilutive to our common shareholders. Our Capital Plan contemplates capital raising initiatives that involve the issuance of a significant number of shares of our common stock. The completion of any of these capital raising transactions is likely to be highly dilutive to our common shareholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the dilutive effect of the capital raising transactions we may enter into or the perception that such transactions could occur. The capital raising initiatives we are pursuing could result in the UST or one or more private investors owning a significant percentage of our stock and having the ability to exert significant influence over our management and operations. One of the primary capital raising initiatives set forth in our Capital Plan is a proposal to the UST to exchange the shares of our preferred stock it owns for newly issued shares of our common stock. If the UST agrees to participate in such exchange on the terms we have proposed (as described under Item 1 — “Business — Recent Developments “ above) and if such exchange was completed prior to the completion of any exchange offer for our trust preferred securities or any public offering of our commons stock, the UST would end up owning a majority of our outstanding common stock. We do not know whether the UST will be willing to participate in any such exchange or the terms and conditions upon which it may agree to participate. It is possible that we may agree to conditions and restrictions on our business imposed by the UST in order to complete such exchange, including limitations and requirements related to executive compensation and corporate governance. Many of our competitors may not be subject to similar conditions, limitations, and requirements, which could give them a competitive advantage over us. It is also possible that one or more large investors, other than the UST, could end up as the owner of a significant portion of our common stock. This could occur, for example, if the UST agrees to participate in the exchange offer and subsequently transfers the common stock acquired from us. It could also occur if one or more large investors makes a significant investment in our common stock in the public offering of our common stock we currently intend to conduct as part of our Capital Plan. Any such significant shareholder could exercise significant influence on matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. In addition, having a significant shareholder could make future transactions more difficult or even impossible to complete without the support of such shareholder, whose interests may not coincide with interests of smaller shareholders. These possibilities could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. It is possible that one or more of the initiatives set forth in our Capital Plan could trigger an ownership change that will negatively affect our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $42.8 million, and such amount may grow significantly in the future. Under federal tax law, our ability to utilize these carryforwards and other deferred tax assets is limited if we are deemed to experience a change of ownership. This would result in our loss of the benefit of these deferred tax assets. The capital raising transactions contemplated by our Capital Plan could cause a change of ownership under these rules, which would likely materially limit our ability to utilize these significant deferred tax assets. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to continued significant fluctuations and volatility. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to, among other things: 29 Table of Contents • announcements regarding significant transactions in which we may engage, including the capital raising initiatives that are part of our Capital Plan; • market assessments regarding such transactions, including the timing, terms, and likelihood of success of such capital raising initiatives; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, and investors, including with respect to further loan losses we may incur; • changes or perceived changes in our operations or business prospects; • legislative or regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our businesses and operations; • the failure of general market and economic conditions to stabilize and recover, particularly with respect to economic conditions in Michigan, and the pace of any such stabilization and recovery; • the possible delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq or perceptions regarding the likelihood of such delisting; • the operating and share price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; • future offerings of debt, preferred stock, or additional trust preferred securities, each of which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation and for purposes of dividend distributions; and • other changes in global financial markets, economies, and market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general, and our common stock in particular, have experienced significant volatility over approximately the past two years, and continue to experience significant price and volume volatility. As a result, the market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may or may not be related to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our common stock could be delisted from Nasdaq. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq GSM. However, on December 21, 2009, we received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that we no longer meet Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements under Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) because the bid price for our common stock had closed below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. We have until approximately June 21, 2010, to demonstrate compliance with this bid price rule by maintaining a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. If we are unable to establish compliance with the bid price rule within such time period, our common stock will be subject to delisting from the Nasdaq GSM. However, in that event, we may be eligible for an additional grace period by transferring our common stock listing from the Nasdaq GSM to the Nasdaq Capital Market. This would require us to meet the initial listing criteria of the Nasdaq Capital Market, other than with respect to the minimum closing bid price requirement. If we are then permitted to transfer our listing to the Nasdaq Capital Market, we expect we would be granted an additional 180 calendar day period in which to demonstrate compliance with the minimum bid price rule. The delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq, whether in connection with the foregoing or as a result of our future inability to meet any listing standards, would have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price of our common stock might become more volatile. Even the perception that our common stock may be delisted could affect its liquidity and market price. Delisting could also make it more difficult to raise additional capital. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq, it is likely that quotes for our common stock would continue to be available on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “Pink Sheets.” However, these alternatives are generally considered to be less efficient markets and it is likely that the liquidity of our common stock as well as our stock price would be adversely impacted as a result. We are not currently paying dividends on our common stock, and there are significant restrictions on our ability to do so. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. We are currently prohibited from paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Even when such prohibitions end (which we do not expect to occur in the near term), there are restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends that will likely continue to materially limit our ability to pay cash 30 Table of Contents dividends. We cannot provide any assurances of when we may pay cash dividends in the future. Furthermore, our common shareholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock and to the prior distribution rights of holders of our trust preferred securities. Our Articles of Incorporation as well as certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and certain federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 