Item 1A. Risk Factors As a global manufacturer of adhesives, sealants, paints and other specialty chemical products, we operate in a business environment that is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Below are the most significant factors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse conditions in the global economy could negatively impact our customers and therefore our financial results. An economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for these products and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Product demand often depends on end-use markets. Economic conditions that reduce consumer confidence or discretionary spending may reduce product demand. Challenging economic conditions may also impair the ability of customers to pay for products they have purchased, and as a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. Increases in prices and declines in the availability of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results. Raw materials needed to manufacture products are obtained from a number of suppliers and many of the raw materials are petroleum-based derivatives, minerals and metals. Under normal market conditions, these raw materials are generally available on the open market from a variety of producers. While alternate supplies of most key raw materials are available, supplier production outages may lead to strained supply-demand situations for certain raw materials. The substitution of key raw materials requires us to identify new supply sources, reformulate, retest and may require seeking re-approval from our customers using those products. From time to time, the prices and availability of these raw materials may fluctuate, which could impair our ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of manufacturing products. If the prices of raw materials increase in a short period of time, we may be unable to pass these increases on to our customers in a timely manner and could experience reductions to our profit margins. Uncertainties in foreign political and economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency may adversely affect our results. Approximately 61 percent, or $944 million, of our net revenue was generated outside the United States in 2011. International operations could be adversely affected by changes in political and economic conditions, trade protection measures, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, differing intellectual property rights and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of products or increase costs. Also, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could potentially result in increases or decreases in earnings and may adversely affect the value of our assets outside the United States. Although we utilize risk management tools, including hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate market fluctuations in foreign currencies, any changes in strategy in regard to risk management tools can also affect sales revenue, expenses and results of operations and there can be no assurance that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. 7 Table of Contents We experience substantial competition in each of the operating segments and geographic areas in which we operate. Our wide variety of products are sold in numerous markets, each of which is highly competitive. Our competitive position in markets is, in part, subject to external factors. For example, supply and demand for certain of our products is driven by end-use markets and worldwide capacities which, in turn, impact demand for and pricing of our products. Many of our direct competitors are part of large multi-national companies and may have more resources than we do. Any increase in competition may result in lost market share or reduced prices, which could result in reduced profit margins. This may impair the ability to grow or even to maintain current levels of revenues and earnings. While we have an extensive customer base, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations until such business is replaced, and no assurances can be made that we would be able to regain or replace any lost customers. Failure to develop new products and protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our future performance and growth. Ongoing innovation and product development are important factors in our competitiveness. Failure to create new products and generate new ideas could negatively impact our ability to grow and deliver strong financial results. We continually apply for and obtain U.S. and foreign patents to protect the results of our research for use in our operations and licensing. We are party to a substantial number of patent licenses and other technology agreements. We rely on patents, confidentiality agreements and internal security measures to protect our intellectual property. Failure to protect this intellectual property could negatively affect our future performance and growth. We may be required to record impairment charges on our long-lived assets. Weak demand may cause underutilization of our manufacturing capacity or elimination of product lines; contract terminations or customer shutdowns may force sale or abandonment of facilities and equipment; or other events associated with weak economic conditions or specific product or customer events may require us to record an impairment on tangible assets, such as facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, such as intellectual property or goodwill, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. We have lawsuits and claims against us with uncertain outcomes. Our operations from time to time are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. The results of any future litigation or settlement of such lawsuits and claims are inherently unpredictable, but such outcomes could be adverse and material in amount. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a discussion of current litigation. Costs and expenses resulting from compliance with environmental laws and regulations may negatively impact our operations and financial results. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on us or otherwise relate to environmental protection, the sale and export of certain chemicals or hazardous materials, and various health and safety matters. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations can be significant and may increase as applicable requirements and their enforcement become more stringent and new rules are implemented. Adverse developments and/or periodic settlements could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a discussion of current environmental matters. Distressed financial markets may result in dramatic deflation of asset valuations and a general disruption in capital markets. Adverse equity market conditions and volatility in the credit markets could have a negative impact on the value of our pension trust assets and our future estimated pension liabilities, and other post-retirement benefit plans. In addition, we could be required to provide increased pension plan funding. As a result, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Reduced access to capital markets may affect our ability to invest in strategic growth initiatives such as acquisitions. In addition, the reduced credit availability could limit our customers’ ability to invest in their businesses, refinance maturing debt obligations, or meet their ongoing working capital needs. If these customers do not have sufficient access to the financial markets, demand for our products may decline. The inability to make or effectively integrate acquisitions may affect our results. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses or products and joint ventures. The ability to grow through acquisitions or joint ventures depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions or joint venture arrangements. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions into our existing business, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Catastrophic events could disrupt our operations or the operations of our suppliers or customers, having a negative impact on our financial results. Unexpected events, including natural disasters and severe weather events, fires or explosions at our facilities or those of our suppliers, acts of war or terrorism, supply disruptions or breaches of security of our information technology systems could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise harm our operations, our customers and our suppliers. Such events could reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to receive raw materials from suppliers and deliver products to our customers. The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely impact our business. Sustaining and growing our business depends on the recruitment, development and retention of qualified employees. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. The pending acquisition of the global industrial adhesives business of Forbo Group may present certain risks to our business and operations both before and after completion of the acquisition. On December 21, 2011, we entered into a Master Purchase Agreement to acquire Forbo’s global industrial adhesives business (the target business). We or our designated subsidiaries will purchase Forbo’s subsidiaries that operate the business and will directly purchase certain assets used in the business that are not owned by such subsidiaries. We will pay Forbo 370 million Swiss Francs, or approximately $394 million to purchase the business on a cash-free and debt-free basis. The purchase price will be paid in cash at closing. We have committed bridge financing in place to complete the transaction and intend to arrange permanent financing through a private placement and syndicated bank loan markets prior to closing. Our board of directors and Forbo’s board of directors have separately approved the acquisition subject to customary closing conditions including the absence of a material adverse change to the business and regulatory approvals. The transaction is expected to close as soon as March 2012. This pending acquisition presents certain risks to our business and operations prior to the closing of the acquisition, including, among other things, risks that: • the acquisition is subject to the expiration or termination of waiting periods and receipt of clearances or approvals from various regulatory authorities, which may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the acquisition; • any delay in completing the acquisition will delay the realization of the benefits expected to be achieved thereafter; • any delay in completing the acquisition could adversely affect the future business and operations of the target business; • uncertainties associated with the acquisition may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees which could adversely affect the future business and operations of the target business; • we may encounter difficulty or high costs associated with securing permanent financing; • if the acquisition is not completed by October 6, 2012, we or Forbo may choose not to proceed with the acquisition. In addition, certain risks will continue to exist after the closing of the acquisition, including, among other things, risks that: • the mix of markets served and business operations of Forbo differ somewhat from our markets and our business operations, and the combined business will have a different business mix than our business prior to the acquisition, presenting different operational risks and challenges; 9 Table of Contents • we may be unable to integrate successfully the business of Forbo and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger; • we will have substantial indebtedness following the acquisition and our future credit ratings or our subsidiaries credit ratings may be different from what we currently expect; • the acquisition integration may involve unexpected costs, unexpected liabilities or unexpected delays; • our business may suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the acquisition and disruptions from the acquisition may harm relationships with customers, suppliers and employees; • evaluation of, and estimation of potential losses arising from lawsuits, claims, contingencies and legal proceedings could prove to be inaccurate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 10 Table of Contents 