Item 1A. Risk Factors The company’s business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks below could materially adversely affect the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition: A wide variety of products are sold in numerous markets, each of which is highly competitive. The company’s competitive position in the markets in which it participates is, in part, subject to external factors. For example, supply and demand for certain of the company’s products is driven by end-use markets and worldwide capacities which, in turn, impact demand for and pricing of the company’s products. Many of the company’s direct competitors are part of large multi-national companies and may have more resources than the company. Any increase in competition may result in lost market share or reduced prices, which could result in reduced gross profit margins. This may impair the ability to grow or even to maintain current levels of revenues and earnings. While the company has an extensive customer base, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the company’s financial condition and results of operations until such business is replaced, and no assurances can be made that it would be able to regain or replace any lost customers. Acquisitions: As part of its growth strategy, the company intends to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses or products and joint ventures. The ability to grow through acquisitions or joint ventures depends upon the company’s ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions or joint venture arrangements. International: Approximately 58 percent, or $807 million, of net revenue was generated outside the United States in 2008. International operations could be adversely affected by changes in political and economic conditions, trade protection measures, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, differing intellectual property rights and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of products or increase costs. Also, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could potentially result in increases or decreases in earnings and may adversely affect the value of the company’s assets outside the United States. Although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate market fluctuations in foreign currencies, any changes in strategy in regard to risk management tools can also affect sales revenue, expenses and results of operations and there can be no assurance that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. Raw Materials: Raw materials needed to manufacture products are obtained from a number of suppliers. Many of these raw materials are petroleum-based derivatives, minerals and metals. Under normal market conditions, these materials are generally available on the open market from a variety of producers. From time to time, however, the prices and availability of these raw materials fluctuate, which could impair the ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of manufacturing products. If the prices of raw materials increase, the company may be unable to pass these increases on to its customers and could experience reductions to its profit margins. Raw material prices can increase in a shorter period of time than the company is able to adjust selling prices to its customer base, which may reduce the company’s profit margins. 5 Table of Contents Litigation: The company’s operations from time to time are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations, and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. While the company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, it does not believe, based upon currently available information, that the ultimate resolution of any pending matter will have a material adverse effect on its long-term financial condition. However, adverse developments and/or periodic settlements could negatively impact the company’s results of operations or cash flows in one or more future quarters. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a discussion of current litigation. Environmental: The company is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on the company or otherwise relate to environmental protection, the sale and export of certain chemicals or hazardous materials, and various health and safety matters. Expenditures related to environmental matters have not had, and, based on currently available information, are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on the company’s long-term financial condition. However, adverse developments and/or periodic settlements could negatively impact the company’s results of operations or cash flows in one or more future quarters. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a discussion of current environmental matters. Economic: Substantial deterioration in economic conditions, especially in the United States and Europe, have had and may continue to have negative effects on the company’s results of operations and cash flows. The economic conditions affect the company’s sales volumes, pricing levels and overall profitability. Demand for many of the company’s products depends on end-use markets. Economic conditions that reduce consumer confidence or discretionary spending may reduce demand for the company’s products. Challenging economic conditions may also impair the ability of customers to pay for products they have purchased, and as a result, the company’s reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. Capital Markets: Distressed financial markets in 2008 have resulted in dramatic deflation of asset valuations and a general disruption in capital markets. This disruption has resulted in diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that government actions will have a positive impact on the capital markets. Reduced access to capital markets may affect the company’s ability to invest in strategic growth initiatives such as acquisitions. In addition, the reduced credit availability may affect the company’s customers from investing in their businesses, refinancing maturing debt obligations, or meeting their ongoing working capital needs. If these customers do not have sufficient access to the financial markets, demand for the company’s products may decline. Additional factors that could affect future results include: (i) economic matters over which the company has no control, including changes in inflation, tax rates, and interest rates; (ii) changes in fiscal, governmental and other regulatory policies; (iii) the loss or insolvency of a major customer or distributor; (iv) natural or manmade disasters (including material acts of terrorism or hostilities that impact the company’s markets); (v) loss of, or changes in, executive management; and (vi) changes in accounting standards that are adverse to the company. In addition, the company notes that its stock price can be affected by fluctuations in quarterly earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 6 Table of Contents 