ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO TIMELY REPAY OUR OUTSTANDING INDEBTEDNESS. In March 2006, we issued $30,000 of convertible notes. We may be unable to repay these loans. In conjunction with the $30,000 of convertible notes, the Company signed an agreement that required the Company to register the underlying shares of common stock with the SEC. The agreement required the Company to file a Form S-1 registration statement with the SEC no later than September 30, 2006. The Company was delayed by the late filing of its Form 10-K for 2005 and did not make the filing deadline. The Company filed its Form S-1 on November 7, 2006. Consequently, the Company paid a total of $1,003 in the fourth quarter of 2006 in late fees and penalties associated with that late filing. The agreement additionally required that the Company have the registration statement declared effective by the SEC by January 28, 2007. Since the initial Form S-1 registration statement is still under review by the SEC, the registration statement is not yet effective. As a result, the Company is paying a penalty of 1% of the $30,000 outstanding balance ($300) per month until the shares are registered. In conjunction with the terms of the notes, the Company may be in default and the notes will become callable if the shares are not registered by March 29, 2007. If these notes become callable, the holders are entitled to the face value of the notes of $30,000, and a 25% redemption premium of $7,500 in addition to accruing interest at the default rate of 12.5% per annum versus the current rate of 7.5%. On February 20, 2007, the Company received a letter from Kings Road Investments, Ltd. (“Kings Road”), one of the holders of notes, asserting events of default under the note. The letter states that Kings Road is electing to accelerate and redeem the note in its entirety. Kings Road seeks payment of the $12,500 principal amount plus a premium of approximately $3,125 and default interest of approximately $500. The letter demanded payment within five business days of receipt of the notice. The terms of the notes provide that if a note holder is not timely paid upon an event of default, at any time before it receives such payment, it may rescind its redemption demand and reclaim 9 its note with a new conversion price, which may be the lowest closing price since the date of the initial redemption notice. The conversion price of the notes is presently $25.85 per common share. Kings Road alleges that events of default under its note have occurred arising from alleged breaches of representations and warranties by the Company contained in the note. These representations and warranties relate to the adequacy of the Company’s internal accounting and disclosure controls and its disclosures in its financial statements and filings with the SEC. Kings Road cites certain disclosures by the Company in its Form 10-K/A filed November 7, 2006 for the period ended December 31, 2005, that, among other things, the Company has identified material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting, including, without limitation, (i) deficiencies in the design of controls in place relating to estimate for warranty reserves at the Company’s Belgian subsidiary, VSK Electronics, (ii) deficiencies in the accounting for foreign currency exchange contracts of the Company’s foreign operations, (iii) deficiencies in accounting for contract costs at the Company’s Belgian subsidiary, MECAR SA, (iv) deficiencies in accounting for inventory costs at certain of the Company’s U.S. subsidiaries, (v) the lack of documentation and testing of the Company’s IT general controls, and (vi) the Company’s inadequate financial reporting processes. The Company disputes the alleged events of default. The Company is currently in discussions with Kings Road and other note holders in an attempt to resolve these issues. On March 19, 2007 and March 20, 2007, the Company received letters from Portside Growth and Opportunity Fund (“Portside”) and LBI Group, Inc. (LBI), two other holders of the Company’s convertible notes, asserting events of default very similar to those asserted by King’s Road. Both letters seek to accelerate and redeem the notes in their entirety. Portside seeks immediate payment of $7,500 principal amount plus a redemption premium of $1,875 and default interest of approximately $545. LBI seeks immediate payment of $4,000 principal amount plus a redemption premium of $1,000 and default interest of approximately $284. The Company strongly disputes the alleged events of default. The Company is currently in discussions with Portside and LBI in an attempt to resolve these issues. The Company has not received a similar default notice from the one remaining holder of the convertible notes. Each of the notes contains cross-default provisions, which would cause an event of default under one note to be deemed a default under each of the other notes. In addition, the Company has been in default of the loan covenants with MECAR’s credit facility at December 31, 2006 and 2005 due to violations of financial performance covenants for which it has received waivers for each of the reporting periods. MECAR’s banking group has been working with the Company to restructure the terms of the facility as MECAR has been restructuring its business to return to profitability. On February 27, 2007 MECAR received notification from its banks that they were temporarily suspending availability under the existing lines of credit until a meeting could be held to review the status of MECAR’s anticipated contract with its largest customer and the Company’s operating plans and lending requirements for the balance of 2007. Based on the meeting held on March 5, 2007, the temporary suspension was lifted on March 8, 2007. The Company is continuing to work with MECAR’s banking group to come up with a long-term credit solution including an increased facility to accommodate the anticipated contract from MECAR’s principal customer. In the event some or all of the notes are called, the Company will not have sufficient cash to meet its obligations to redeem the notes. Should any significant combination of the other risks materialize, we could deplete our cash reserves as early as second quarter of 2007. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CURE A DEFAULT ON OUR INDEBTEDNESS. In conjunction with the $30,000 of convertible notes issued on March 9, 2006, the Company signed an agreement that required the Company to register the underlying shares of common stock with the SEC. The Company is required to have the shares effective by January 28, 2007. Since the initial Form S-1 filing is still under review by the SEC, the shares are not yet effective. As a result, the Company is paying a penalty of 1% of the $30,000 outstanding balance ($300) per month until the shares are registered. In conjunction with the terms of the notes, the Company may be in default and the notes may become callable if the registration statement is not effective by March 29, 2007. In addition, the Company has been in default of the loan covenants with MECAR’s credit facility at December 31, 2006 and 2005 for which it has received waivers for each of the reporting periods. MECAR’s 10 banking group has agreed to renegotiate the terms of the credit facility. Negotiations are ongoing and we expect to have an amended credit facility in the second quarter of 2007. If the Company’s senior notes become callable and/or if MECAR’s bank group refuses to continue to waive MECAR’s failure to meet the credit facility’s financial covenants and the amount owed under MECAR’s credit facility become callable, the Company will not have the cash to pay these obligations. The Company would have to look to alternative financing sources (or sales of its assets) to pay these obligations. OUR INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS HAVE ISSUED A “GOING CONCERN” OPINION RAISING DOUBT ABOUT OUR FINANCIAL VIABILITY. As a result of our continuing losses and negative cash flows, our independent registered public accounting firm, BDO Seidman, LLP, issued a “going concern” opinion in connection with their audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006. This opinion expressed substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The going concern opinion could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our business plan, result in the reluctance on the part of certain suppliers to do business with us, result in the inability to obtain new business due to potential customers’ concern about our ability to deliver products or services, or adversely affect our ability to raise additional debt or equity capital. WE HAVE LIQUIDITY ISSUES. We may not receive significant new orders from our key customer in the Middle East nor may we be able to sufficiently trim expenses at MECAR to ensure a cash breakeven operation in 2007; we may not obtain the increase in MECAR’s bank facility needed to perform the expected contract; we may have to continue to fund operations at operating units projected to be cash neutral to positive in early 2007, if their anticipated revenues do not materialize; VSK may not have any excess cash with which to provide a significant cash dividend; and we may not be able to dispose any of our core or non-strategic assets. Should any significant combination of these risks materialize, we could deplete our cash reserves as early as second quarter of 2007. WE MAY NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL ON TERMS UNFAVORABLE TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS. In view of our liquidity issues, we may need to raise additional capital. Based on our current level of operations, we believe that our cash flow from operations, together with amounts provided through various banking agreements; the sale of shares in December 2006; and potential proceeds from the sale of assets of the Other segment will be adequate to meet our anticipated operating, capital expenditure and debt service requirements for the foreseeable future. If the Company’s senior notes become callable and/or if MECAR’s bank group refuses to continue to waive MECAR’s failure to meet the credit facility’s financial covenants and the amount owed to MECAR’s banks become callable, the Company will not have the cash to pay these obligations. The Company would have to look to alternative financing sources to pay these obligations. However, we neither have complete control over the timing and awarding of future contracts nor our future performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting the defense and security industries. Such financings could also be required to support our traditional and recently acquired operating units. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financings to support our existing businesses or we may only be able to obtain such capital on terms unfavorable to our stockholders. OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS CONTINUE TO BE LARGELY INFLUENCED BY THE RESULTS OF MECAR. MECAR continues to provide the principal portion of our revenues. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, MECAR contributed 51%, 60%, and 64%, respectively, of our annual revenue. Accordingly, our consolidated financial results are heavily dependent upon one of our subsidiaries. Further, MECAR historically has intermittent periods of poor financial performance, which results from significant fixed costs and the timing of sales contracts which may adversely affect our consolidated business, financial condition or results of operations. 11 AT MECAR, OUR REVENUE CONTINUES TO BE CONCENTRATED AMONG A SMALL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS. A significant percentage of our revenue is concentrated among a relatively small number of end-user customers. During the last five fiscal years, a foreign government in the Middle East and the U.S. Army, via direct sales and Foreign Military Sales (FMS), have provided the majority of our revenues. The loss of such a significant customer or a substantial decrease in sales to such a customer would have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. Additionally, there may be significant gaps in time periods between receipt of significant contracts from these customers which may cause substantial swings in our operating results. MECAR DEPENDS UPON AN INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTOR FOR THE SALE OF PRODUCTS AND ANY DISRUPTION IN THIS RELATIONSHIP COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US. MECAR currently sells and supports its products to its largest customer through an independent distributor. Any disruption or termination of this distributor relationship could negatively impact our operations. WE DO NOT HAVE LONG-TERM CONTRACTS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS AND OUR CUSTOMERS MAY CEASE PURCHASING OUR PRODUCTS AT ANY TIME. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide any assurance of future sales. Accordingly, while we have served our principal customers for many years, our customers can cease purchasing our products at any time without penalty. OUR MARKETS FOR AMMUNITION SALES ARE LIMITED BY THE AVAILABILITY OF BELGIAN EXPORT LICENSES. Belgian law requires that MECAR obtain a government-issued export license to ship its ammunition products to other countries for each order it receives. From time to time, MECAR has been forced to decline an order from a customer due to refusal of the government to issue the export license. Such refusals have been based on actual or perceived deficiencies of the recipient country’s government or for other reasons. For example, MECAR has been denied export licenses for potential sales to Columbia due to Belgian government concern with the Columbian government. Similarly, Libya is still not formally open for defense sales from Belgium. In addition MECAR has been advised by the Belgian government that Ecuador would probably not be entitled to an export license. The denial of export licenses changes from time to time. Failure to obtain export licenses for sales to MECAR’s traditional customer base would adversely affect our operations and financial results. OUR SUPPLIERS HAVE FROM TIME TO TIME BEEN LATE IN DELIVERY OF KEY SUPPLIES WHICH HAS DELAYED OUR PRODUCTION AND HAD A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. MECAR’s operations are dependent on the ability of certain suppliers to deliver supplies on a timely basis. From time to time, MECAR has experienced substantial delays in receipt of needed supplies which has caused delays in MECAR’s production activities. If MECAR experiences any significant delays in receipt of necessary supplies and raw materials, MECAR’s production could be delayed which could adversely affect our financial results. FIRES OR EXPLOSIVE INCIDENTS MAY DISRUPT OUR AMMUNITION & WEAPONS EFFECTS BUSINESS. MECAR’s products frequently involve the manufacture and/or handling of a variety of explosive and flammable materials. From time to time, this manufacturing and/or handling has resulted in incidents that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted our manufacturing, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these types of incidents in the future or that these incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 12 MECAR’S UNION WORKFORCE COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. MECAR’s employees are unionized. Our inability to negotiate acceptable terms with the unions could result in strikes or work stoppages or increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The union employees are subject to a national collective bargaining agreement that allows for influence on remuneration issues and employee policies. WE MAY EXPERIENCE PRODUCT FAILURES, SCHEDULE DELAYS OR OTHER PROBLEMS WITH EXISTING OR NEW PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS, ANY OF WHICH COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. We may experience product and service failures, schedule delays and other problems in connection with the manufacture or delivery of our products. In addition to any costs resulting from product warranties, contract performance or required remedial action, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenues due to postponement of subsequently scheduled product and service deliveries. Performance penalties could also be imposed should we fail to meet delivery schedules or other measures of contract performance. These factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. NEWLY FORMED SUBSIDIARIES AND RECENTLY ACQUIRED SUBSIDIARIES MAY NOT PERFORM AS EXPECTED. MECAR USA was formed in late 2005 to acquire munitions contracts in the United States and to serve as an extended production facility for MECAR. Risks include the inability of MECAR USA to negotiate or win contracts in the United States, an unwillingness by potential customers to contract with a newly formed company, and/or the inability to generate enough revenue to cover operating costs over the long-term. Nor are there any guarantees that MECAR will be able to forward new or existing orders for fulfillment at MECAR USA. Thus, our substantial investment in MECAR USA may prove unproductive to the detriment of our financial condition or results of operations. In November 2005, the Company acquired GMS to expand its market presence in the ES segment. Prior to the acquisition, GMS was a closely held, small private successful business with a niche product. Although the Company believes GMS’s products and customer base are important to growing in the ES segment, GMS as an integrated unit in the Company’s ES segment may fail to provide revenue growth to the Company and the investment in GMS may prove unproductive to the detriment of our financial condition or results of operations. LARGE CONTRACT ORDERS MAY NOT BE FULFILLED. Due in part to a substantial Battlefield Effect Simulator (BES) contract award received in 2005, we expect that Titan will need to grow substantially to fulfill contract demands. Such expected large orders may not be performed on a profitable basis as Titan ramps up to meet the expected demand due to an inability to find key engineering personnel, enough production workers, supplier disruptions, etc. This may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. WE ARE NOT ABLE TO GUARANTEE THAT CONTRACT ORDERS INCLUDED IN OUR ESTIMATED BACKLOG WILL RESULT IN ACTUAL REVENUES IN ANY PARTICULAR FISCAL PERIOD OR THAT THE ACTUAL REVENUES FROM SUCH CONTRACTS WILL EQUAL OUR ESTIMATED BACKLOG. There can be no assurance that any contracts included in our estimated backlog presented in this filing will result in actual revenues in any particular period or that the actual revenues from such contracts will equal our estimated backlog. Further, there can be no assurance that any contract included in our estimated backlog that generates revenue will be profitable. Failure to convert reported backlog into profitable results of operations may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 13 OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO MANY FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE OUR QUARTERLY OR ANNUAL OPERATING RESULTS TO FLUCTUATE AND OUR STOCK PRICE TO BE VOLATILE. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly or annual operating results do not meet the expectations of the investor community, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline. Some of the factors that could affect our quarterly or annual operating results include: • the timing and amount of, or cancellation or rescheduling of, orders for our products; • our ability to develop, introduce, ship and support new products and product enhancements and manage product transitions, announcements and new product introductions; • our ability to achieve cost reductions; • our ability to achieve and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; • the volume of products sold and the mix of distribution channels through which they are sold; • the loss of any one of our major customers or a significant reduction in orders from those customers; and • increased competition, particularly from larger, better capitalized competitors. Due to these and other factors, quarterly or annual revenue, expenses and results of operations could vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. BECAUSE WE SELL SOME OF OUR PRODUCTS IN COUNTRIES OTHER THAN THE UNITED STATES, WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, AND OTHER CONDITIONS THAT COULD RESULT IN REDUCED SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS AND WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Sales to customers outside the U.S. has historically accounted for the vast majority of our revenue. Accordingly, we are subject to political, economic and other conditions affecting countries or jurisdictions other than the U.S., including the Middle East, Europe and Asia. Any interruption or curtailment of trade between the countries in which we operate and their present trading partners, change in exchange rates, significant shift in trade policies or a significant downturn in the political, economic or financial condition of these countries could cause demand for and sales of our products to decrease, cause disruption of our supply channels or otherwise disrupt our operations, cause our costs of doing business to increase, or subject us to increased regulation including future import and export restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business. OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY IS IMPORTANT TO US AND WE RISK LOSS OF A VALUABLE ASSET IF WE CANNOT ADEQUATELY PROTECT IT. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws and contractual obligations to protect our technology. We cannot guarantee that these and other intellectual property protection measures will be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. In addition, the legal systems of many foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary information and technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON KEY PERSONNEL WHO WOULD BE DIFFICULT TO REPLACE AND WHOSE LOSS COULD IMPEDE OUR DEVELOPMENT. We are highly dependent on key personnel to manage our businesses, and their knowledge of business, management skills and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. The loss of key employees could limit or delay our ability to develop new products and adapt existing products to our customers’ evolving requirements and would also result in lost sales and diversion of management resources. Because of competition for additional 14 qualified personnel, we may not be able to recruit or retain necessary personnel, which could impede development or sales of our products. Our growth depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified, experienced employees. There is substantial competition for experienced engineering, technical, financial, sales and marketing personnel in our industry. If we are unable to retain our existing key personnel, or attract and retain additional qualified personnel, we may, from time to time, experience inadequate levels of staffing to develop and market our products and perform services for our customers. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN THE CONTRACTING OR FISCAL POLICIES OF THE U.S. FEDERAL GOVERNMENT. We have begun to derive substantial revenues from contracts with the U.S. federal government and we believe that the success and development of our business will continue to depend on our successful participation in U.S. federal government contract programs. Accordingly, changes in U.S. federal government contracting policies could directly affect our financial performance. Among the factors that could materially adversely affect our U.S. federal government contracting business are: • budgetary constraints affecting U.S. federal government spending generally, or specific departments or agencies in particular (we are particularly dependent upon the Department of Homeland Security) and changes in fiscal policies or available funding; • the adoption of new laws or regulations; • technological developments; • U.S. federal governmental shutdowns and other potential delays in the government appropriations process; • delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment officers due to problems with, or upgrades to, government information systems, or for other reasons; • competition and consolidation in the relevant industries; and • general economic conditions. These or other factors could cause U.S. federal governmental agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts or not to exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our government contracts may be terminated at any time prior to their completion, and if we do not replace them, our operating results may be harmed. We derive revenues from government contracts that typically are awarded through competitive processes and span one or more base years and one or more option years. Government agencies generally have the right not to exercise these option periods. In addition, our contracts typically also contain provisions permitting a government client to terminate the contract on short notice, with or without cause. A decision not to exercise option periods or to terminate contracts would reduce the profitability of these contracts to us. Upon contract expiration, if the customer requires further services of the type provided by the contract, there is frequently a competitive re-bidding process and there can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract. The unexpected termination of one or more of our significant contracts could result in significant revenue shortfalls the imposition of fines or damages or our suspension or debarment from bidding on additional contracts could harm operating results for those periods. Most government contract awards are subject to protest by competitors. These protests could also result in a requirement to resubmit bids for the contract or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. 15 OUR FIXED-PRICE CONTRACTS MAY NOT BE PROFITABLE. We provide many of our products and services through fixed-price contracts. In a fixed-price contract, we must fully absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of the costs we will incur in performing these contracts and in projecting the ultimate level of sales that we may achieve. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, anticipate foreign currency fluctuations with regard to revenue or the purchase of materials for contracts not in a subsidiary’s functional currency, or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce the profitability of a fixed-price contract or cause a loss. ACQUISITIONS MAY HAVE ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES FOR OUR BUSINESS. In late 2001 and during 2002, we completed the acquisitions of NSM, Titan and SeaSpace. In 2004, we acquired CMS Security Systems and in 2005, we acquired Global Microwave Systems. The acquisitions that we have completed and which we may complete in the future could result in the following, any of which could seriously harm our results of operations or the price of our stock: (i) issuances of equity securities that would dilute the percentage ownership of our current stockholders; (ii) large one-time write-offs or a series of operating losses; (iii) the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; (iv) difficulties in the assimilation and integration of the acquired companies; (v) diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; (vi) contractual disputes; (vii) risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; and (viii) potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. POTENTIAL UNDISCLOSED LIABILITIES ASSOCIATED WITH ACQUISITIONS — WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIABILITIES ASSUMED IN CONNECTION WITH OUR ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We conduct due diligence in connection with each of our acquisitions. In connection with any of our acquisitions, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or that we improperly assess in our due diligence efforts. In particular, to the extent that prior owners of any acquired businesses or properties failed to comply with or otherwise violated applicable laws or regulations, or failed to fulfill their contractual obligations to the U.S. federal government or other customers, we, as the successor owner, may be financially responsible for these violations and failures and may suffer reputational harm or otherwise be adversely affected. The discovery of any material liabilities associated with our acquisitions could harm our operating results. WE HAVE DEMANDS ON OUR CASH RESOURCES IN ADDITION TO INTEREST AND PRINCIPAL PAYMENTS ON OUR DEBT, INCLUDING, AMONG OTHERS, OPERATING EXPENSES. OUR LEVEL OF INDEBTEDNESS AND THESE SIGNIFICANT DEMANDS ON OUR CASH RESOURCES COULD: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our lines of business, • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have lower debt service obligations and significantly greater operating and financing flexibility, • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants applicable to our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, and • result in an event of default upon a failure to comply with financial covenants contained in any existing credit facilities which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Should any significant combination of these risks materialize, we could deplete our cash reserves as early as the second quarter of 2007. 16 Our ability to pay interest on and repay our long-term debt and to satisfy our other liabilities will depend upon future operating performance and our ability to refinance our debt as it becomes due. Our future operating performance and ability to refinance will be affected by prevailing economic conditions at that time and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. OUR OPERATIONS MAY BE INSUFFICIENT TO PAY FOR OUR INCREASED OVERHEAD. We have experienced increased overhead costs and our overhead costs could further increase. There can be no assurance that our operating units will generate sufficient excess cash flow to support these increased overhead costs. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONTINUE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPETE IN THE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE DEFENSE AND SECURITY SECTORS AGAINST COMPETITORS WITH GREATER RESOURCES. The defense and security industries are highly competitive. We face substantial competition throughout the world. We believe that to remain competitive, we will require significant financial resources in order to develop new products, offer a broader range of products and invest in research and development. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial resources, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, customer service capabilities and greater name recognition. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and processes and to introduce new products and processes with improved performance characteristics. OUR EMPLOYEES MAY ENGAGE IN IMPROPER ACTIVITIES WITH ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES TO OUR BUSINESS. As with other government and other contractors, we are faced with the possibility that our employees may engage in misconduct, fraud or other improper activities that may have adverse consequences to our prospects and results of operations. Misconduct by employees could include failures to comply with U.S. federal government regulations, violation of requirements concerning the protection of classified information, improper labor and cost charging to contracts and misappropriation of government or third party property and information. The occurrence of any such employee activities could result in our suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. federal government, as well as, the imposition of fines and penalties which would cause material harm to our business. IF WE CANNOT OBTAIN THE NECESSARY SECURITY CLEARANCES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PERFORM CLASSIFIED WORK FOR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND OUR REVENUES MAY SUFFER. Certain U.S. government contracts require our facilities and some of our employees, to maintain security clearances. If we lose or are unable to obtain required security clearances, the client can terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent we cannot obtain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular contract, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract, which, if not replaced with revenue from other contracts, could seriously harm our operating results. CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS, ESPECIALLY IN THE EUROPEAN EURO, MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The exchange rates for local currencies in countries where we operate may fluctuate in relation to the U.S. Dollar. In recent years, this has allowed us to report increased earnings in U.S. Dollars but a future strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the Euro would result in decreased reported earnings which would have a negative effect on our stock price. SINCE WE DO NOT INTEND TO DECLARE DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE, THE RETURN ON YOUR INVESTMENT WILL DEPEND UPON APPRECIATION OF THE MARKET PRICE OF YOUR SHARES. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock. Our board of directors does not currently intend to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future, but intends to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business 17 operations and for expansion of our portfolio of defense and security businesses. As a result, the return on your investment will depend upon any appreciation in the market price of our common stock. THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN VOLATILE. The price of our common stock is volatile. From January 1, 2006 to March 5, 2007, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $23.25 to a low of $10.90. The volatile fluctuations of the market price are based on (1) the number of shares we may be required to issue in the future, compared to the market demand for our shares; (2) our performance and meeting expectations of our performance, including the development and commercialization of our products and proposed products; (3) market conditions for companies in the small capitalization sectors; and (4) general economic and market conditions. STOCKHOLDERS WILL EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT DILUTION FROM OUR SALE OF CONVERTIBLE NOTES, WARRANTS AND STOCK. In March 2006, the Company completed a debt offering and issued $30,000 in convertible notes. In mid-December, 2006, the Company issued 400,000 of common stock in a private offering to certain of its larger shareholders and certain of the convertible debt holders of the Company. As a result of the private offering, the conversion price of the debt offering was reduced to $25.85 per share for a total potential conversion of approximately 1,161,000 shares. As part of the terms of the December offering, the number of warrants issued in conjunction with the March debt offering increased the number of warrants held by the debt holders to approximately 233,000 from the approximately 227,000 originally issued. In addition, the financial advisor on the debt offering received an additional 1,000 warrants with the December offering for a total of approximately 41,000. If all of the warrants are exercised and the debt is fully converted to Allied stock, current stockholders will experience a significant dilution in their ownership of the Company. Based on the terms of the debt offering both the notes and warrants are subject to anti-dilution provisions and can potentially become more dilutive to the Company. Further dilution may occur in the event of a default on the $30,000 convertible notes. On February 20, 2007, the holder of $12,500 principal amount of the Company’s $30,000 convertible notes delivered to the Company a letter asserting events of default under the note. The letter states that the note holder is electing to accelerate and redeem the note in its entirety and seeks payment of the $12,500 principal amount of the note, plus a default premium of approximately $3,125 and default interest of approximately $500. On March 19, 2007 and March 20, 2007, the Company received notices from two of the holders of the convertible notes totaling $11,500 asserting events of default very similar to those asserted by the $12,500 note holder. These note holders seek payment of the $11,500 principal amount of the note plus a premium of approximately $2,875 and default interest of approximately $829. The letters demanded payment within five business days of receipt of the notice. The terms of the notes provide that if a note holder is not timely paid upon an event of default, at any time before it receives such payment, it may rescind its redemption demand and reclaim its note with a new conversion price, the lowest closing price since the date of the initial redemption notice. The conversion price of the notes is presently $25.85 per common share. Therefore, upon an event of default, a note holder’s election to reclaim its note with a new conversion price could result in a substantial dilution to existing shareholders. THE PRICE OF OUR SHARES MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE PUBLIC SALE OF A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF THE SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE. All outstanding shares of our common stock are freely transferable or transferable under Rule 144. A significant number of additional shares may be issued upon conversion of the notes and exercise of the warrants. Sales of large amounts of common stock in the public market could materially adversely affect the share price. Such sales also may inhibit our ability to obtain future equity related financing on acceptable terms. In March 2007, the Company will file a registration statement to register the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes and upon exercise of the warrants to permit the resale of these shares of common stock by the holders of the convertible notes and warrants. Upon the effective date of the registration statement, the holders of the convertible notes may sell all or a portion of the shares of common stock they receive by conversion of the notes and warrants directly in the market or through one or more underwriters, broker-dealers 18 or agents. The size of the Company’s market “float” (shares held by non-affiliates of the Company) is approximately 2.5 million. Consequently, in relation to the size of the “float,” a large number of shares of common stock would be available for resale by the note holders upon effectiveness of the registration statement, which could depress the market price of the Company’s common stock. BECAUSE OF THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT AND “ANTI-TAKEOVER” PROVISIONS IN OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS, A THIRD PARTY MAY BE DISCOURAGED FROM MAKING A TAKEOVER OFFER WHICH COULD BE BENEFICIAL TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS. On June 6, 2001, we adopted a revised shareholder rights plan. The effect of this rights plan and of certain provisions of our Amended and restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and restated By-Laws, and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us or replacing members of our board of directors, even if the acquisition or the replacements would be beneficial to our stockholders. These factors could also reduce the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of the common stock and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. In June 2006 and November 2006, the Board of Directors modified the Company’s shareholder rights plan to increase the “acquiring person” threshold from 15% to 25%. BECAUSE OF LIKELY FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE OF OUR STOCK, WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO CLASS ACTION LITIGATION THAT COULD DISTRACT MANAGEMENT AND RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL COSTS. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our operations and sales of our products, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2006, ALLIED HAD MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN ITS INTERNAL CONTROLS, AND ITS INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING WAS NOT EFFECTIVE AS OF THAT DATE. IF ALLIED FAILS TO MAINTAIN AN EFFECTIVE SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS, IT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PROVIDE TIMELY AND ACCURATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. IN JANUARY 2007, THE COMPANY FOUND AN ERROR IN THE FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR SEPTEMBER 30, 2006 AND THE COMPANY HAD TO RESTATE RESULTS FOR THAT PERIOD. As more fully described in Item 9A, the Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control — Integrated Framework. As a result of management’s assessment, management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2006, Allied did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board has defined a material weakness as a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim statements will not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. We have identified two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting: The first material weakness concerned accounting for contract costs at our Belgian subsidiary MECAR SA. The Company did not maintain an accurate contract accounting cost ledger. During the fourth quarter of 2006, we implemented a new integrated software package to assist us in accounting for contracts at our subsidiary. The initial implementation of this new contract accounting system was incorporated in the results reported for the third quarter of 2006. Later in the year, as we improved our contract accounting process and completed our year end closing process, the results for the third quarter were deemed to have included a material error with regard to inventory balances. Accordingly, the Company restated the financial results for 19 the quarter ended September 30, 2006. Since the initial implementation in the later part of 2006, the Company has identified and implemented processes to improve the accuracy and timeliness of the information and the processing of transactions. The Company is continuing to monitor these transactions to ensure that they are properly recorded. We believe this material weakness will be fully remediated with the implementation of the above mentioned process improvements in 2007. The second material weakness relates to the Company’s inadequate financial reporting processes. The Company’s recent restatements as well as the Company’s general consolidation and reporting processes were not adequate to meet the needs of the public reporting requirements during 2006. In 2006, the Company increased staffing and made key finance and management resource changes at MECAR and the Corporate headquarters. Some of these changes were put in place in the second half of 2006 and as such, full remediation was not achieved by the year end. In addition, the Company has had turnover in the financial organization in early 2007. The Company is continuing to increase staffing and develop formal financial reporting processes and is working to complete remediation in 2007. The continued implementation of the initiatives described above is among our highest priorities. In 2005, the Company reported six material weaknesses and through extensive effort the Company has been able to limit the weaknesses to the two reported above for 2006. We are committed to eliminating these two weaknesses in 2007. There is no assurance that we will eliminate these weaknesses or in the future identify additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. The reporting of these weaknesses could limit our ability to obtain financing, harm our reputation, disrupt our ability to process key components of our results of operations and financial condition timely and accurately and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations under SEC rules and our various debt arrangements. Further, if our internal controls over financial reporting are ineffective, we could materially misstate our financial results which could result in a future restatement of our financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 