ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The statements in this section, as well as statements described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in other SEC filings, describe risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our securities. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could also be materially affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. In addition, this section sets forth statements which constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “plans,” “expects,” “intends,” “believes,” “seeks,” “could,” “should,” “may” and “will” or the negative versions thereof and similar expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon our current expectations and speak only as of the date made. These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in or implied by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs, including energy costs, lower sales volumes, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions or assumption of unknown liabilities in connection with acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, loss of key management, uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation, failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the initiation or outcome of litigation or governmental investigation, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products, the disruption of operations from catastrophic events, changes in federal and state tax laws and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made except as required by law. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions relevant to our businesses. Actual results may differ from certain assumptions we have made causing actual events to vary from expected results. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. General economic factors may adversely affect our financial performance. General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, tax rates and other changes in tax laws and other economic factors could adversely affect the demand for our products and services. Increases in labor costs, including healthcare and insurance costs, higher material costs for items such as linens and textiles, higher fuel and other energy costs, higher interest rates, inflation, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws and other economic factors could increase our costs of rental and direct sales and selling and administrative expenses and could adversely affect our operating results. Increased competition could adversely affect our financial performance. We operate in highly competitive industries and compete with national, regional and local providers. Product, design, price, quality, service and convenience to the customer are the primary competitive elements in these industries. If existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, we may be required to lower prices, which could be detrimental to our operating results. Our competitors also generally compete with us for acquisition candidates, which can increase the price for acquisitions and reduce the number of available acquisition candidates. In addition, our customers and prospects may decide to perform certain services in-house instead of outsourcing such services. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our sales and operating results. 6 Table of Contents Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our operating results. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. All of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and economic stability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial stability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, United States and Canadian foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our operating results. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could result in significant costs that adversely affect our operating results. Our operating locations are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing discharges of pollutants to the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. The operation of our businesses entails risks under environmental laws and regulations. We could incur significant costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and claims by third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws and regulations. We could also be required as a result of violations of these laws and regulations to reduce or cease use of certain equipment and limit or stop production at certain facilities. These consequences could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition and on our customer relationships. We are currently involved in a limited number of legal matters and remedial investigations and actions at various locations. While it is impossible to ascertain the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to contingent liabilities, including lawsuits, legal matters and environmental contingencies, based on information currently available and our best assessment of the ultimate amount and timing of environmental-related events, we believe that the cost of these environmental-related matters are not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. It is possible, however, that our future financial position or results of operations for any particular future period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or strategies related to these contingencies, the imposition of additional clean-up obligations, the discovery of additional alleged contamination or changes out of our control. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Under environmental laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be required to pay the costs of removing or remediating hazardous materials located on or emanating from property, whether or not the owner or operator knew of or was responsible for the presence of such hazardous materials. While we regularly engage in environmental due diligence in connection with acquisitions, we can give no assurance that locations that have been acquired or leased have been operated in compliance with environmental laws and regulations during prior periods or that future uses or conditions will not make us liable under these laws or expose us to third-party actions, including tort suits. From time to time we are subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. From time to time we are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. Certain of these lawsuits or potential future lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in a liability that is material to our financial condition and operating results. We discuss these lawsuits and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and under Part II, “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under “Litigation” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Note 9 entitled “Commitments and Contingencies” of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” 7 Table of Contents Risks associated with our acquisition policy could adversely affect our operating results. Historically, a portion of our growth has come from acquisitions. We continue to evaluate opportunities for acquiring businesses that may supplement our internal growth. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and purchase suitable organizations. In addition, the success of any acquisition depends in part on our ability to integrate the acquired company. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention and our financial and other resources. Although we conduct due diligence investigations prior to each acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will discover all operational deficiencies or material liabilities of an acquired business for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator. The failure to successfully integrate these acquired businesses or to discover such liabilities could adversely affect our operating results. Increases in fuel and energy costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The price of fuel and energy needed to run our vehicles and equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war, terrorism and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, limits on refining capacities, natural disasters and environmental concerns. Increases in fuel and energy costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our Canadian, Dominican Republic and Ireland operations are influenced by currency fluctuations and other risks that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our foreign revenues and operating expenses are transacted in local currencies. Therefore, our results of operations and certain receivables and payables are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. If we are unable to preserve positive labor relationships or we become the target of labor unionization campaigns, any resulting labor unrest could disrupt our business by impairing our ability to produce and deliver our products. Significant portions of our Canadian labor force are unionized, and a lesser portion of United States employees are unionized. Competitors within our industry have been the target of unionization campaigns by multiple labor unions. While we believe that our Canadian and domestic employee relations are satisfactory, we could experience pressure from labor unions or become the target of campaigns similar to those faced by our competitors. If we do encounter pressure from labor unions, any resulting labor unrest could disrupt our business by impairing our ability to produce and deliver our products and services. In addition, significant union representation would require us to negotiate with many of our employees collectively and could adversely affect our results by restricting our ability to maximize the efficiency of our operations. If we are unable to attract and retain employees our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our ability to attract and retain employees is important to our operations. Our ability to expand our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force. In the event of a labor shortage, or in the event of a change in prevailing labor and/or immigration laws, we could experience difficulty in delivering our services in a high-quality or timely manner and we could be forced to increase wages in order to attract and retain employees, which would result in higher operating costs. Loss of our key management or other personnel could adversely impact our business. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management and certain other key personnel. If, for any reason, one or more senior executives or key personnel were not to remain active in our company, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Unexpected events could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. Unexpected events, including fires at facilities, natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornados, war or terrorist activities, unplanned utility outages, supply disruptions, failure of equipment or systems or changes in laws and/or regulations impacting our business, could adversely affect our operating results. These events could result in disruption of customer service, physical damage to one or more key operating facilities, the temporary closure of one or more key operating facilities or the temporary disruption of information systems. 8 Table of Contents Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our business and stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. While we continue to evaluate our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud. This may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 