Risk Factors – Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could result in significant costs that adversely affect our operating results, Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in Note 11 entitled “Commitments and Contingencies” of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Any environmental liability relating to such matters could result in significant expenditures that, if aggregated and assumed to occur within a single fiscal period, could be material to our results of operations or financial position. While it is impossible to ascertain the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to contingent liabilities, including lawsuits, legal matters, claims and environmental contingencies, based on information currently available and our assessment of the ultimate amount and timing of environmental-related events, we believe that the cost of these environmental-related matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. While we believe the possibility is remote, there is a potential that we may incur additional losses in excess of established reserves due to the imposition of clean-up obligations, the discovery of alleged contamination or other changes. Employees Our U.S. operations had approximately 6,500 employees as of June 30, 2012, which includes approximately 3,600 production employees and 2,900 sales, office, route and management personnel. Unions represent approximately 10% of our U.S. employees. Approximately 2% of our U.S. employees participate in collective bargaining agreements that expire in the next 12 months. Management believes its U.S. employee relations are satisfactory. Our Canadian operations had approximately 1,300 employees as of June 30, 2012, which includes approximately 700 production employees and 600 sales, office, route and management personnel. Unions represent approximately 65% of our Canadian employees. Approximately 12% of our Canadian employees participate in collective bargaining agreements that expire in the next 12 months. Management believes its Canadian employee relations are satisfactory. Foreign and Domestic Operations Financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations is set forth in Note 12, “Segment Information” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Intellectual Property We own a portfolio of registered trademarks, trade names and licenses, and certain U.S. and foreign process and manufacturing patents relating to our business. These proprietary properties, in the aggregate, constitute a valuable asset. We do not believe, however, that our business is dependent upon any single proprietary property or any particular group of proprietary properties. 5 Table of Contents Seasonality and Working Capital We do not consider our business to be seasonal to any significant extent or subject to any unusual working capital requirements. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are available free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable, after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are available on our website at http://www.gkservices.com. Information included on our website is not deemed to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The statements in this section, as well as statements described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in other SEC filings, describe risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our securities. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could also be materially affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. In addition, this section sets forth statements which constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “plans,” “expects,” “intends,” “believes,” “seeks,” “could,” “should,” “may” and “will” or the negative versions thereof and similar expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon our current expectations and speak only as of the date made. These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in or implied by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs, lower sales volumes, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions or assumption of unknown liabilities in connection with acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor, costs and possible effects of union organizing or other union activities, strikes, loss of key management, uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation, failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the initiation or outcome of litigation or governmental investigation, higher than assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products, the disruption of operations from catastrophic events, disruptions in capital markets, the liquidity of counterparties in financial transactions, changes in federal and state tax laws, economic uncertainties and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made, except as required by law. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions relevant to our business. Actual results may differ from certain assumptions we have made causing actual events to vary from expected results. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. 6 Table of Contents General economic factors may adversely affect our financial performance. General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. Continued high levels of unemployment, inflation, tax rates and other changes in tax laws and other economic factors could adversely affect the demand for our products and services. Increases in labor costs, including healthcare and insurance costs, higher material costs for items, such as linens and textiles, higher fuel and other energy costs, higher interest rates, inflation, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws and other economic factors could increase our costs of rental and direct sales and selling and administrative expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations. Increased competition could adversely affect our financial performance. We operate in highly competitive industries and compete with national, regional and local providers. Service, product, design, price, quality and convenience to the customer are the primary competitive elements in these industries. If existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, we may be required to lower prices, which could be detrimental to our operating results. Our competitors also generally compete with us for acquisition candidates, which can increase the price for acquisitions and reduce the number of available acquisition candidates. In addition, our customers and prospects may decide to perform certain services in-house instead of outsourcing such services. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our sales and operating results. Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced, and the cost of those products, could adversely affect our operating results. The products we sell are sourced from a variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of these products is an important factor in our financial performance. We endeavor that all of our suppliers comply with applicable laws, including, without limitation, labor and environmental laws. Our ability to secure and maintain qualified suppliers who meet our standards and to access products in a timely and efficient manner can be a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and economic stability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial stability of suppliers, failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability and cost of raw materials to suppliers, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, United States and Canadian foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our operating results. Failure to comply with the regulations of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration and other state and local agencies that oversee safety compliance could adversely affect our results of operations. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, or “OSHA,” establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by OSHA and various record keeping, disclosure and procedural requirements. Various OSHA standards apply to our operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with OSHA and other state and local laws and regulations. Any failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines by government authorities and payment of damages to private litigants, and could affect our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could result in significant costs that adversely affect our operating results. Our operating facilities are subject to stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing the potential discharges of pollutants to the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. The operation of our business entails risks under environmental laws and regulations. We could incur significant costs, including, without limitation, clean-up costs, fines, sanctions and claims by regulators or third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws and regulations. As a result of violations of these laws and regulations, among other things, we could be required to reduce or cease use of certain equipment and/or limit or stop production at certain facilities. These consequences could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition and disrupt customer relationships. We are currently involved in a limited number of legal matters and remedial investigations and actions at various locations related to environmental laws and regulations. While it is impossible to ascertain the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to contingent liabilities, including lawsuits, legal matters, claims and environmental contingencies, based on information currently available and our assessment of the ultimate amount and timing of environmental-related events, we believe that the cost of these environmental-related matters are not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. It is possible, however, that our future financial position or results of operations for any particular future period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or strategies related to these contingencies, the imposition of clean-up obligations, and the discovery of alleged contamination or changes out of our control. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. 7 Table of Contents Under environmental laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be required to pay the costs of removing or remediating hazardous materials located on or emanating from property, whether or not the owner or operator knew of or was responsible for the presence of such hazardous materials. We have a number of sites on which we are currently conducting remediation projects. Also, while we regularly engage in environmental due diligence in connection with acquisitions, we can give no assurance that locations that have been acquired or leased have been operated in compliance with environmental laws and regulations during prior periods, nor can we give any assurance that existing remediation projects or future uses or conditions will not make us liable under these laws or expose us to regulator or third-party actions, including third party suits. Additionally, we must maintain compliance with various permits and licenses issued to us in connection with our operations, or we must apply for and obtain such permits and licenses. Any failure on our part to maintain such compliance or to apply for and receive such permits and licenses could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at a particular location. At each reporting period, we assess our operations to determine whether the costs of resolution of legal matters or of investigation and remediation of environmental conditions are probable and can be reasonably estimated, as well as the adequacy of our reserves with respect to such costs. At June 30, 2012, our reserves for environmental matters were approximately $1.2 million. We cannot guarantee that our reserves with respect to environmental matters will be sufficient or that the costs of resolution of legal matters or of remediation and investigation will not substantially exceed our reserves as new facts, circumstance or estimates arise. Fluctuations in demand for our products and services may adversely impact our financial results. Continued uncertainty in global economic conditions may pose a risk to the overall economy as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news. This could negatively impact our customers and consequently have a negative impact on our financial performance. If demand for our products and services fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our revenue and operating margin could be negatively impacted. Important factors that could cause demand for our products and services to fluctuate include: • changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in specific industry segments and/or the overall economy; • changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy prices; • competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from companies that have competing products and services; • changes in customer needs; • changes in our customers’ employment levels, which impacts the number of users of our products and services; • strategic actions taken by our competitors; and • market acceptance of our products and services. If our customers’ demand for our products and services decreases, our plant and manufacturing capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to record an impairment of our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. A change in demand for our products and services, and changes in our customers’ needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments of our assets. 8 Table of Contents Legal proceedings may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. From time to time we are party to various legal claims and proceedings. Certain of these claims or proceedings or potential future proceedings, if decided adversely against us or settled by us, may result in a liability that is material to our financial condition and operating results. We discuss current lawsuits and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail under Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in Note 11 entitled “Commitments and Contingencies” of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Risks associated with our acquisition strategy could adversely affect our operating results. Historically, a portion of our growth has come from acquisitions. We continue to evaluate opportunities for acquiring businesses that may supplement our internal growth. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and purchase suitable operations. In addition, the success of any acquisition depends in part on our ability to integrate the acquired business. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention and our financial and other resources. Although we conduct due diligence investigations prior to each acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will discover all operational deficiencies or material liabilities of an acquired business for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator. The failure to successfully integrate these acquired businesses or to discover such liabilities could adversely affect our operating results. Increases in fuel, energy and commodity costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Motor fuel, natural gas, electricity, cotton, polyester and other commodities represent a significant cost within our business. The price of these commodities, which are required to run our vehicles and equipment and manufacture our garments, can be unpredictable and can fluctuate based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war, terrorism and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, limits on refining capacities, natural disasters and environmental concerns. Increases in the cost of these commodities could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to preserve positive labor relationships could adversely impact our operations and financial results. Significant portions of our Canadian labor force are unionized, and a lesser portion of United States employees are unionized. While we believe that our Canadian and U.S. employee relations are satisfactory, we continue to face pressure from labor unions, and could experience pressure similar to those faced by our competitors. If we do encounter pressure from labor unions, any resulting labor unrest could disrupt our business by impairing our ability to produce and deliver our products and services. In addition, significant union representation would require us to negotiate with many of our employees collectively and could adversely affect our results by restricting our ability to maximize the efficiency of our operations. Inability to attract and retain employees could adversely impact our operations. Our ability to attract and retain employees is important to our operations. Our ability to expand our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force. In the event of a labor shortage, or in the event of a change in prevailing labor and/or immigration laws, we could experience difficulty in delivering our services in a high-quality or timely manner and we could be forced to increase wages in order to attract and retain employees, which would result in higher operating costs. Loss of our key management or other personnel could adversely impact our business. Our success is dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management and other key personnel. If, for any reason, one or more senior executives or key personnel were not to remain active in our company, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Unexpected events could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. Unexpected events, including, without limitation, fires at facilities, natural disasters, such as hurricanes and tornados, public health emergencies, war or terrorist activities, unplanned utility outages, supply disruptions, failure of equipment or systems or changes in laws and/or regulations impacting our business, could adversely affect our operating results. These events could result in disruption of customer service, physical damage or temporary closure of one or more key operating facilities, or the temporary disruption of information systems. 9 Table of Contents Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our business and stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. While we continue to evaluate our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud. This may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Failure to execute our business plan could adversely affect our business and stock price. Successful execution of our business plan is not assured as there are several obstacles to success, including a continued difficult economic environment, a competitive industry and entries by us into new markets. In addition, there can be no assurance that our efforts, if properly executed, will result in our desired outcome of improved financial performance. The financial condition of multi-employer (union) pension plans in which we participate may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We participate in a number of multi-employer pension plans (“MEPPs”). Also called Taft-Hartley plans, MEPPs are pension plans that are jointly trusteed by union and management and that provide benefits to an employer’s unionized work force if the collective bargaining agreement between the employer and union provide for participation in the MEPP. Employers who withdraw from MEPPs remain responsible for their proportionate share of the MEPPs’ unfunded vested pension benefits, an amount also known as “withdrawal liability.” As we reported in the third quarter, we have recently withdrawn from the Central States (“Central States Fund”), Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Funds at certain locations and we are attempting to withdraw from the Central States Fund at other locations. Despite having withdrawn from the Central States Fund, we remain responsible for our withdrawal liability amount. The Central States Fund has not yet provided us with a calculation of our withdrawal liability amount and we may disagree with the Central States Fund’s calculation. If that is the case, we may be required to engage in arbitration or other proceedings with the Central States Fund to determine the amount of our liability. The amount ultimately determined to be our withdrawal liability amount may be greater than the amount we have already recognized on our financial statements and the increased amount could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. The funded status of the Central States Fund and other MEPPs in which we continue to participate has substantially deteriorated over the past years. If in the future, local union employees vote to decertify their respective union, or the union ratifies a collective bargaining agreement in which we no longer participate in the MEPP, or other employers in the MEPP withdraw or experience financial difficulty, including bankruptcy, our liability under the associated MEPP could increase. That increase could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance and could be greater than estimated. We do not have the ability to predict or influence the timing of votes to decertify a union nor do we have any control over the continued participation or financial stability of other employers in a MEPP. Fluctuations in Canadian, Dominican Republic and Ireland currencies could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our foreign revenues and operating expenses are transacted in local currencies. Therefore, our results of operations and certain receivables and payables are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. 10 Table of Contents Risks associated with potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets could adversely affect our financial performance. In fiscal year 2009, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $107.0 million, which reduced the carrying value of our goodwill to $319.9 million as of June 27, 2009. We continue to monitor relevant circumstances, including customer spending levels, general economic conditions and the market price for our common stock, and the potential impact that such circumstances might have on the valuation of our goodwill. It is possible that changes in such circumstances, or in the numerous variables associated with the judgments, assumptions and estimates made by us in assessing the appropriate valuation of our goodwill, could require us to further reduce our goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges. If we were required to further reduce our goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges, our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested heavily in protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 