Item 1A. Risk Factors (dollars in thousands except share and per share data) — continued If funding for the Poinciana Parkway is not obtained so that construction of the Poinciana Parkway can be commenced by February 14, 2011 as required by our agreements with Osceola County and Polk County, the Counties have no right to obtain damages or sue Avatar for specific performance. Polk County’s sole remedy under its agreement with us is to cancel such agreement if we do not construct the Poinciana Parkway. If the construction of the Poinciana Parkway is not funded and commenced by February 14, 2011, (i) a portion of our land in Osceola County will become subject to Osceola traffic concurrency requirements applicable generally to other home builders in the County and (ii) we will be required to contribute approximately $1,900 towards the construction cost of certain traffic improvements in Osceola County that we otherwise might have been obligated to build or fund if we had not agreed to construct the Poinciana Parkway. Avatar is investigating the availability of an extension of the Poinciana Parkway permits and the related deadlines in its agreements with the Counties. Our estimate of the right-of-way acquisition, development and construction costs for the Poinciana Parkway approximates $175,000 to $200,000. However, no assurance of the ultimate costs can be given at this stage. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $47,000 has been expended. During 2009 and 2008 we recorded impairment charges of $8,108 and $30,228, respectively, associated with the Poinciana Parkway. At December 31, 2009, the carrying value of the Poinciana Parkway is $8,482. If we cannot obtain funding for construction of the Poinciana Parkway and commence construction by February 14, 2011, or obtain amendments of our agreements with the Counties regarding the Poinciana Parkway and permit extensions, it is unlikely that we will recover our investment in the Poinciana Parkway at any time in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock to date, and we intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debt may preclude us from paying these dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock is likely to be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 