Risk Factors — continued Our business is subject to substantial competition Our homebuilding, planned community development and other real estate operations are subject to substantial existing and potential competition (including increased competition from a number of national homebuilders). Some current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, sales, marketing, technical and other resources than we have. Competition within the geographic locations of our developments extends from price and design of products, to the ability to acquire diminishing supplies of raw land, to retain and employ experienced real estate development, management and sales personnel and to contract with development and construction firms. We cannot assure that we will have sufficient resources to compete successfully in our market or against our competition. Accordingly, we may lose market share to existing and new competitors. In addition, we currently compete with resales in our communities by real estate investors and speculators. Our inability to meet the demands of increased volume could adversely affect our business The expansion of operations has placed increased burdens on existing staff and development and construction subcontractors. In addition, our ability to manage growth and to redeploy resources effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and sales systems. The inability to meet the demands of higher volume through retention and hiring of experienced development, management and sales personnel, through entering into contracts for development and construction and by updating and/or installing more sophisticated systems could have a detrimental effect on our competitive position and results of operation. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and environmental considerations Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and, in particular, local regulatory requirements, the broad discretion that governmental agencies have in administering those requirements and “no growth” or “slow growth” policies, all of which can prevent, delay, make uneconomic or significantly increase the costs of development. Various governmental approvals and permits are required throughout the development process, and no assurance can be given as to the receipt (or timing of receipt) of these approvals or permits. For example, at Poinciana additional access roads will be necessary in 2007 or shortly thereafter to accommodate increasing traffic resulting from increasing population. We may be required to fund or guarantee all or part of the development and construction costs which are intended to be repaid through revenue bonds or toll road receipts. The incurrence of substantial compliance costs, denial or postponement of necessary development permits or the imposition of delays and other regulatory burdens could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, various federal, state and local laws subject property owners or operators to liability for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances released on a property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the release of the hazardous substances. The presence of such hazardous substances at one or more properties, and the requirement to remove or remediate such substances, could result in significant cost. Certain events could trigger the acceleration of payment of the 4.50% Notes Certain events, including cessation of trading of our common stock, failure to pay interest when due on our 4.50% Notes, final judgment(s) for the payment of money in excess of $20,000 rendered against us or any of our subsidiaries if not discharged for any periods of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement is not in effect, could result in a default under our 4.50% Notes. Such default would result in the requirement for payment of the 4.50% Notes prior to the due date thereof. Our inability to make such accelerated payment could have a material adverse effect upon our business. 10 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 