ITEM 1A . RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock, may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include the following. The homebuilding industry, which is cyclical and affected by a variety of factors, has undergone a significant downturn. Although certain markets have begun to recover, including our primary markets of Florida and Arizona, homebuilding remains below historic levels and the duration and ultimate speed of recovery remain uncertain. Deterioration in industry conditions or in broader economic conditions could have additional material adverse effects on our business and financial results. The homebuilding industry is highly cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as in global and local economic conditions, such as changes in: · employment and income levels; · availability of financing for homebuyers; · interest rates; · consumer confidence; · levels of new and existing homes for sale; · demographic trends; and · housing demand. Changes in these conditions may occur on a national scale, as is the case in the current downturn and nascent recovery, or may acutely affect some of the regions or markets in which we operate more than others. When adverse conditions affect markets, they could have a proportionately greater impact on us than on other homebuilding companies with smaller presences in these locally affected markets. Our operations are concentrated entirely in the markets of Florida and Arizona, which had been more adversely affected by the recent downturn and as a result the downturn has, and could continue to have, a more substantial impact on our business and financial results. 9 Table of Contents An oversupply of alternatives to new homes can adversely impact our ability to sell new homes. An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, including foreclosed homes, homes held for sale by investors and speculators, and other existing homes and rental properties, can also adversely impact our ability to sell new homes and can depress new home prices and reduce our margins on the sales of new homes. High levels of foreclosures not only contribute to additional inventory available for sale, but also reduce appraisal valuations for new homes, potentially resulting in lower sales prices. It is difficult to calculate the total number of units at foreclosure risk due to existing mortgagors’ reticence to market all such homes on a current basis creating additional “shadow” inventory. The recent downturn in the homebuilding industry was one of the most severe housing downturns in U.S. history. The significant decline in the demand for new homes, the significant oversupply of homes in some markets and the significant reductions in the availability of financing for homebuyers that marked the downturn are continuing and may continue for some time. We experienced material reductions in our home sales and homebuilding revenues, and we have incurred and may incur in the future material inventory impairments and losses from our joint venture interests and other write-offs. It is not clear when or if these trends will reverse or when we may return to profitability. The reversal of the nascent recovery or slower than anticipated improvements in the market would have a further material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. Our ability to respond to these factors is limited. The significant number of home mortgage foreclosures has increased supply and driven down prices, making the purchase of a foreclosed home an attractive alternative to purchasing a new home, although this trend is moderating in the Arizona market. However, due to the judicial foreclosure process in Florida, we believe that foreclosed homes coming onto the market in Florida will be an issue for the near term. The judicial foreclosure process had delayed the initiation of actions in Florida generally and we have begun to experience an increase in foreclosure notifications on homes within our communities within the last several months. We believe this is a broader market trend. Homebuilders have responded to declining sales and increased cancellation rates with significant concessions, further adding to the price declines. The price declines, in some cases, may cause current homeowners, particularly those in our active adult demographic, to delay the resale of their current home, impacting potential purchases of our new homes. With the decline in the values of homes and the inability of many homeowners to make their mortgage payments, the credit markets have been significantly disrupted, putting strains on many households and businesses. In the face of these conditions, the overall economy has weakened significantly, with high unemployment levels and substantially reduced consumer spending and confidence. As a result, demand for new homes remains at historically low levels. We cannot predict the duration of the current recovery. Nor can we provide assurance that our responses to the homebuilding recovery or the government’s actions to specifically resolve the housing market’s issues and, more generally, the condition of the overall economy will be successful. Our ability to generate sufficient cash or access our limited other sources of liquidity in order to operate our business and service our debt depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability in the future to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures for construction and development costs will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow and access other sources of capital. On a pro forma basis, our annualized interest incurred for the next twelve months will be $7,740. For the years ended December 31, 2007 through 2012, our earnings were insufficient to cover our fixed charge obligations. To a large extent, our ability to generate cash flow is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay principal and interest on the debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before the maturity thereof, or incur additional debt. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance such debt or incur additional debt. If we are unable to refinance our debt on a timely basis or at all, we may need to dispose of certain assets, reduce capital expenditures, or take other steps that could be detrimental to our business. We cannot assure you that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our debt or incur additional debt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and could cause us to be unable to service our debt. 10 Table of Contents In addition, we use letters of credit and surety bonds to secure our performance under various construction and land development agreements, escrow agreements, financial guarantees and other arrangements. Should our future performance or economic conditions continue to make such letters of credit and surety bonds costly or difficult to obtain or lead to us being required to collateralize such instruments to a greater extent than previously, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We could be adversely affected by negative changes in our creditworthiness. Our ability to access capital in the future is a key factor in our ability to service our indebtedness to cover our operating expenses and to fund our other liquidity needs. Deterioration in our creditworthiness will require significant management time and effort in addition to management's primary task of running our homebuilding business and make it difficult and costly for us to access debt capital or engage in other ordinary course financing transactions, including the provision of credit support to community infrastructure financing transactions relating to our new developments. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt. Our debt and debt service obligations increased significantly as a result of the issuance of the 7.50% Convertible Notes due 2016 (the “7.50% Notes”). During the three months ended September 30, 2012, the Company entered into exchange agreements under which it retired $44,500 in aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 7.50% Notes, in exchange for its issuance of $44,500 in aggregate principal of new 7.50% Senior Exchange Convertible Notes due 2016 (“7.50% Exchange Notes”). Following these transactions, $55,500 in aggregate principal amount of the 7.50% Notes remained outstanding for a total indebtedness under the 7.50% Notes and the 7.50% Exchange Notes of $100,000. Unlike the 7.50% Notes, the 7.50% Exchange Notes do not provide that the holder may require the Company to repurchase them on February 15, 2014. The cancellation of the existing put right extends the effective maturity date of the 7.50% Exchange Notes to February 15, 2016. As of December 31, 2012, total consolidated indebtedness was $105,402. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2012 was approximately $79,815. This level of debt could affect our future operations in a number of ways, including, among others: · exposing us to the risks of an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; · reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; · subjecting us to the risk of increased interest rates on our indebtedness upon maturity; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the 7.50% Notes, the 7.50% Exchange Notes, the 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 (the “4.50% Notes”) and our other debt. 11 Table of Contents A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. We cannot assure that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to pay or refinance such debt and to fund potential future acquisitions of real estate and real-estate related assets. On February 4, 2013, the 7.50% Notes became current debt as the put feature would require payment within 12 months of that date. The indentures governing our 7.50% Notes, the 7.50% Exchange Notes, and any future indebtedness, contain or may contain financial and operating restrictions that may affect our ability to operate our business. The indentures governing the 7.50% Notes and the 7.50% Exchange Notes contain various covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to grant certain liens to support indebtedness, invest in joint venture transactions, merge or sell assets. In addition, the indentures governing these notes contain, and any future indebtedness may contain, restrictions on our ability to incur indebtedness, enter into certain affiliate transactions and make certain distributions. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, engage in, expand or pursue our business activities and prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. In particular, restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness may limit our ability to undertake new large scale master-planned development opportunities, and may thereby adversely affect our future growth and results of operations. We may be unable to purchase the notes upon a change of control. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under the 7.50% Notes or the 7.50% Exchange Notes following a “change of control” as defined in these indenture governing the notes. Under the indentures, upon the occurrence of a defined change of control, which definition includes an involuntary change of control, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. However, we may not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of the notes. Our failure to make or complete a change of control offer would place us in default under the indentures governing the notes. In addition, upon a sale of less than all of our assets, the ability of a holder of the 7.50% Notes and the 7.50% Exchange Notes to require us to repurchase such notes may be uncertain. We could enter into significant transactions that would not constitute a change of control requiring us to repurchase the notes, but that could adversely affect our risk profile. We could, in the future, enter into certain transactions, including certain recapitalizations, that would not result in a change of control, but would increase the amount of indebtedness outstanding at such time or otherwise affect our capital structure or credit ratings. Such restrictions in the indentures governing the notes can be waived with the consent of the holders of a majority in principal amount of the notes then outstanding. Except for the limitations contained in such covenants, however, the indentures do not contain any covenants or provisions that may afford holders of the notes protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction. We have contingent liabilities, and if any of such liabilities are called upon, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. In December 2006, we entered into agreements with Osceola County, Florida and Polk County, Florida for us to develop and construct at our cost a 9.66 mile four-lane road in Osceola and Polk Counties beginning in Poinciana and connecting to the US17/US92 in Polk County to be known as the Poinciana Parkway (the “Poinciana Parkway”). Once completed, the roadway will provide significant relief to the currently constrained roadway infrastructure that accomodates the daily commuter traffic of Poinciana. This relief will allow for continued growth in residential, commercial, and employment in the Poinciana community, all of which the Company believes will aid its sales and land values in Poinciana. The Poinciana Parkway is to include a 4.15 mile segment to be operated as a toll road. We have acquired right-of-way and federal and state environmental permits necessary to construct the Poinciana Parkway. One additional permit is required for an interchange between the Poinciana Parkway and US17/US92 in Polk County which must be obtained prior to completing construction on the road. 12 Table of Contents On July 16, 2012, the Osceola County Commission approved an agreement that is expected to facilitate the development of the Poinciana Parkway by Osceola County and its Expressway Authority. The agreement imposed a December 31, 2012 deadline for the negotiation and execution of a new public-private development agreement among one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, API, Osceola County, Polk County and the newly formed Osceola County Expressway Authority for construction and operation of the Poinciana Parkway as an Osceola County-owned toll road. On October 15, 2012, a Development Agreement became effective among API, Osceola County, Polk County and the Osceola County Expressway Authority which provides for the public financing of the Poinciana Parkway by Osceola County and the Osceola County Expressway Authority (the “Development Agreement”). The Development Agreement calls for us to assign all permits and plans to Osceola County and to donate certain right-of-way parcels that will accommodate both the arterial and southern connector facilities and other lands to Osceola and Polk counties. The Osceola County Expressway Authority will be responsible for all design modifications, construction management and operation of that portion of Poinciana Parkway that is a part of the Osceola County Expressway Authority System. Polk and Osceola counties will own and operate all arterial roadway segments. The final funding package for the minimum two lane Poinciana Parkway will be determined by Osceola County and the Osceola County Expressway Authority. Construction is contingent on such funding. Should the decision be made to construct additional transportation capacity, i.e., four lanes, additional funding will be identified and contributed by Osceola County. If funding for the Poinciana Parkway is not obtained and construction cannot be commenced by February 14, 2014, the counties have no right to obtain damages or seek specific performance from API’s. Polk County’s sole remedy under its agreement with API is to cancel its agreement with API. With respect to Osceola County, if funding and commencement of construction is not met, (i) a portion of API’s land in Osceola County will become subject to Osceola County traffic concurrency requirements applicable generally to other home builders in the county and (ii) API will be required to contribute approximately $1,900 towards the construction cost of certain traffic improvements in Osceola County that we otherwise might have been obligated to build or fund if we had not agreed to construct the Poinciana Parkway. In addition, certain of our communities have HOAs and we plan to have HOAs at most of our future communities. In most of our existing communities, HOA dues paid by residents are insufficient to pay for all operating expenses and we subsidize those HOAs. We expect that to be the case in new communities as well in the early stages of selling out those communities. Pursuant to these arrangements, we may become obligated to make greater payments, if assessments levied on and paid by homeowners are insufficient to cover such operating expenses when due. In the event that we are called upon to satisfy any of these contingent liabilities, or any other contingent liabilities that may arise in the ordinary course of business but that have not come to our attention to date, it could significantly affect our liquidity and ability to generate cash flow, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have a significant number of development liabilities related to the Company’s predecessor and its affiliates, over which we have little or no control as to the dates that payment may be required, and which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. Most of these liabilities relate to class action settlement agreements entered into by the Company in 1974 and the bankruptcy of the Company’s predecessor and its affiliates in the mid-1970s (collectively, the “Orders”). Among other things, under the Orders, the Company is obligated to install certain utility infrastructure to lots sold by us in Rio Rico and Poinciana prior to such Orders (“Affected Lots”). Historically, the Company has identified such contingent obligations respecting the Orders in its SEC filings supported by the report of an independent engineer. In 2011, management of the Company determined that such engineer estimates should be further evaluated by another independent engineer. The second engineer’s report reflected a much greater cost to complete the utility infrastructure at Rio Rico as a result of more accurate measurements of linear feet of utility lines required, cost updates and advanced techniques in identifying the location and number of Affected Lots. Management of the Company also determined that an error was made in 2005 when the total mileage of water pipe mains required was reduced based on assumptions that are not supported by our current research. Our estimate of the liability has been accrued and is included in the Estimated Development Liability line item on our Balance Sheet. If a significant number of the owners of the Affected Lots require AV Homes to install infrastructure in Rio Rico or Poinciana, it is possible that AV Homes may not have adequate liquidity to meet its obligations. 13 Table of Contents The reduction in availability of mortgage financing has adversely affected our business, and the duration and ultimate severity of the effects are uncertain. Lenders, regulators and others have questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan products and programs offered in recent years. Credit requirements have tightened, and investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities has declined. The deterioration in credit quality has caused almost all lenders to stop offering subprime mortgages and most other loan products that are not eligible for sale to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or loans that do not meet Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”) and Veterans Administration (“VA”) requirements. Fewer loan products, tighter loan qualifications and a reduced willingness of lenders to make loans, in turn, have made it more difficult for many buyers to sell their homes or to finance the purchase of our homes. These factors have served to reduce the pool of qualified home buyers. These reductions in demand have adversely affected our business and financial results, and the duration and severity of their effects are uncertain. The liquidity provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the mortgage industry historically has been very important to the housing market. Any changes in the ongoing role of these entities could have a material impact on the financing market, and our ability to sell homes. While the use of down payment assistance programs by our home buyers has decreased significantly, some of our customers still utilize 100% financing through programs offered by the VA and United States Department of Agriculture. There can be no assurance that these programs or other programs will continue to be available or will be as attractive to our customers as the programs currently offered, which could negatively affect our sales. Because many of our customers require mortgage financing, increases in interest rates could lower demand for our products, limit our marketing effectiveness and limit our ability to fully realize our backlog. A significant percentage of our customers finance their home purchases through lenders that provide mortgage financing. Increases in interest rates could lower demand for new homes because monthly mortgage costs to potential homebuyers would increase. Even if potential new homebuyers do not need financing, changes in interest rates could make it harder for them to sell their existing homes to potential buyers who need financing. This could prevent or limit our ability to attract new customers as well as our ability to fully realize our backlog because our sales contracts often include a financing or sale contingency. Financing contingencies permit buyers to cancel sales contracts in the event that mortgage financing at prevailing interest rates is unobtainable within the period specified in the contract. This contingency period is typically four to eight weeks following the date of execution of the sales contract. Our exposure to such financing contingencies renders us vulnerable to changes in prevailing interest rates. Cancellations of home sales orders in backlog may increase as homebuyers choose to not honor their contracts. We believe that the elevated cancellation rate experienced each of the last four years was largely a result of reduced homebuyer confidence, due principally to continued price declines, the growing number of foreclosures and continued high unemployment. A more restrictive mortgage lending environment and the inability of some buyers to sell their existing homes have also impacted cancellations. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and it is uncertain whether they will cause cancellation rates to rise again in the future. Declines in home prices and sales order activities in Florida and Arizona would materially and adversely impact our results of operations because we conduct our homebuilding business in these states. Our operations are concentrated in regions that were among the most severely affected by the economic downturn. Home prices and sales activities in these states declined significantly since the end of 2006 and at a greater rate than the country as a whole. These states, especially Arizona, are showing indicators of a recovery; however, if these states continue to experience economic difficulties, including elevated levels of unemployment and precarious budget situations at the state and local government level, such conditions may materially adversely affect the market for our homes in those affected areas. Because we do not have operations in other states, declines in home prices and sales activity in Florida and Arizona adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Inflation could adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly in a period of oversupply of homes. Inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials and labor. However, we may not be able to offset any such cost increases with higher sales prices because a continuation of the oversupply of homes relative to demand. In addition, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand. In such an environment, we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. Moreover, with inflation, our costs of capital increase, and the purchasing power of our cash resources can decline. Supply shortages and other risks related to demand for building materials and skilled labor could increase our costs and delay deliveries. The purchase price of building materials is increasing; most notably the price of wood, drywall, steel and insulation. The related shipping costs are also increasing. Should these trends continue, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. The homebuilding industry has from time to time experienced significant difficulties that can affect the cost or timing of construction including: · shortages of qualified trades people; · reliance on local subcontractors, manufacturers and distributors who may be inadequately capitalized; · shortages of materials; and · volatile increases in the cost of materials, particularly increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are significant components of home construction costs. These difficulties may cause us to take longer or incur more costs to build our homes and materially adversely affect our revenues and margins. To the extent the housing market recovers and demand for labor and materials increase, our average per home cost of labor and building materials will likely increase, and our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. In Arizona, we will need to replenish our inventory of improved or finished lots for construction in 2013 and beyond. Elimination or reduction of the tax benefits associated with owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business or financial results. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for an individual’s federal, and in some cases, state income taxes, subject to various limitations under current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state government changes its income tax laws, as has been discussed from time to time, to eliminate or substantially modify these income tax deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase for many of our potential customers. The resulting loss or reduction of homeowner tax deductions, if such tax law changes were enacted without offsetting provisions, would adversely impact demand for and sales prices of new homes. In addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental authorities can adversely affect the ability of potential customers to obtain financing or the desire of potential customers to purchase new homes. Homebuilding is subject to home warranty and construction defect claims and other litigation risks in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. Our operating expenses could increase if we are required to pay higher insurance premiums or incur substantial litigation costs with respect to such claims and risks. 15 Table of Contents As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We record customer service and warranty reserves for the homes that we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. Because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our reserves will be adequate to address all of our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. Increasingly in recent years, individual and class action lawsuits have been filed against homebuilders asserting claims of personal injury and property damage caused by a variety of issues, including faulty materials and the presence of mold in residential dwellings. Furthermore, decreases in home values as a result of general economic conditions may result in an increase in construction defect claims, as well as claims based on marketing and sales practices. Our reserves may not cover all of the claims arising from such issues or we may experience litigation costs and losses that could impact our profitability. Even if we are successful in defending such claims, we may incur significant costs. Since 2009, we determined that six of our homes, constructed in Central Florida contained reactive drywall manufactured in China (“Chinese drywall”). All of such homes have been fully remediated at minimal cost to AV Homes due to reimbursement by the supplier or manufacturer of the Chinese drywall. In Vitalia at Tradition we completed construction of the substantially and partially completed homes we acquired, including replacement of Chinese drywall that was placed in such homes during the time they were owned by the original builder. If and to the extent the scope of the Chinese drywall issues prove to be significantly greater than we currently believe, and our existing warranty reserves together with our insurance and any recovery from the supplier and/or manufacturer is not sufficient to cover claims, losses or other issues related to the Chinese drywall, we could incur costs or liabilities related to this issue that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Homebuilding is very competitive, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete not only for home buyers, but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. We compete with other local, regional and national homebuilders, often within larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed by such homebuilders. We also compete with home sales by others, foreclosures and rental properties. In addition, the consolidation of some homebuilding companies may create additional competitors that have greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we do and thus are able to compete more effectively against us, and there may be new entrants in the markets in which we currently conduct business. These competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry can affect our business and financial results through: · lower sales; · lower selling prices; · increased selling incentives; · lower profit margins; · impairments in the value of inventory and other assets; · difficulty in acquiring suitable land, raw materials, and skilled labor at acceptable prices or terms; and · delays in construction of our homes. Our success depends on the availability of suitable undeveloped land and improved lots at acceptable prices and our having sufficient liquidity to acquire such properties. Our success in developing land and in building and selling homes depends in part upon the continued availability of suitable undeveloped land and improved lots at acceptable prices. The availability of undeveloped land and improved lots for purchase at favorable prices depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the risk of competitive over-bidding on land and lots and restrictive governmental regulation. Should suitable land opportunities become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell would be reduced, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and profits. In addition, our ability to make land purchases will depend upon us having sufficient liquidity to fund such purchases. We may be at a disadvantage in competing for land due to our debt obligations and restrictive covenants, and as a result of our reduced access to capital compared to some of our competitors. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop our communities successfully or within expected timeframes, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Before a community generates any revenues, time and material expenditures are required to acquire land, obtain development approvals and construct significant portions of project infrastructure, amenities, model homes and sales facilities. A decline in our ability to develop and market our communities successfully and to generate positive cash flow from these operations in a timely manner would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and on our ability to service our debt and to meet our working capital requirements. Our business is seasonal in nature, and our quarterly operating results can fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results generally fluctuate by season. We typically experience the highest new home order activity in the winter and spring months, although new order activity is also highly dependent on the number of actively selling communities and the timing of new community openings as well as other market factors. Our revenues from homebuilding operations are fairly consistent throughout the calendar year, but we may experience higher liquidity demands during the first half of the calendar year as we incur the costs associated with new construction resulting from the increased sales volume. If, due to construction delays or other reasons, we are unable to deliver our expected number of homes in the second half of the calendar year, our full year results of operations may be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by weather conditions and natural disasters. Weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires, droughts and floods can harm our homebuilding business. These can delay home closings, adversely affect the cost or availability of materials or labor, or damage homes under construction. The climates of the states in which we operate present increased risks of adverse weather or natural disasters. In particular, a large portion of our homebuilding operations is concentrated in Florida, which is subject to increased risk of hurricanes. Furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover losses resulting from these events or any related business interruption, our assets, financial condition and capital resources could be adversely affected. Resource shortages or rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our operations. The areas in which we operate are subject to resource shortages, including significant changes to the availability of water. Shortages of natural resources, particularly water, may make it more difficult for us to obtain regulatory approval of new developments. We may incur additional costs and may not be able to complete construction on a timely basis if such shortages continue. Furthermore, these shortages may adversely affect the regional economies in which we operate, which may reduce demand for our homes. In addition, the cost of petroleum products, which are used both to deliver our materials and to transport our employees to our job sites, fluctuates and may increase as a result of geopolitical events or accidents. This could also result in higher prices for any product utilizing petrochemicals. These cost increases may have an adverse effect on our operating margin and results of operations. Values of, and costs associated with, our land and lot inventory could adversely affect our business or financial results. The risks inherent in controlling or purchasing, holding and developing land for new home construction are substantial and increase as consumer demand for housing decreases. The value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions. If the fair market value of the land, lots and inventories we hold decreases, we may be required to reduce the carrying value of these assets and take significant impairment charges as we did in 2012. We may have acquired options on or bought and developed land at a cost we will not be able to recover fully or on which we cannot build and sell homes profitably. In addition, our deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk. In certain circumstances, a grant of entitlements or development agreement with respect to a particular piece of land may include restrictions on the transfer of such entitlements to a buyer of such land, which may increase our exposure to decreases in the price of such entitled land by restricting our ability to sell it for its full entitled value. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in reduced margins or losses in a poorly performing community or market. In the present weak market conditions, we have sold homes and land for lower margins or at a loss and we have recorded significant inventory impairment charges and such conditions may persist. Because future market conditions are uncertain, we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in managing our future inventory risks or avoiding future impairment charges. 17 Table of Contents Reduced home sales may impair our ability to recoup development costs or force us to absorb additional costs. We incur many costs before we begin to build homes in a community. Depending on the stage of development a land parcel is in when acquired, such costs may include costs of preparing land; finishing and entitling lots; installing roads, sewers, water systems and other utilities; building amenities in our age-restricted and age targeted communities; taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes; and promotional marketing and overhead expenses to prepare for the opening of a new home community for sales. In addition, local municipalities may impose requirements resulting in additional costs. If the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows or falls, or if we delay the opening of new home communities for sales due to adjustments in our marketing strategy or other reasons, each of which has occurred throughout the housing downturn, we may incur additional costs and it will take a longer period of time for us to recover our costs. Although we operate in two primary markets, we have a high concentration of land assets in the Poinciana area market. Historically, our goals for the ownership and control of land and building lots were based on management’s expectations for future volume growth in Florida, and in particular, the Poinciana/Kissimmee area. In light of weak market conditions encountered since 2006, prior projections were not realized and we have a very high concentration of assets in this market. Because future market conditions are uncertain, and our assets are so highly concentrated, we are limited in the amount of land we can dispose of to supplement cash flow from home sales. Our flexibility in responding to changes in market conditions, including our ability to respond to further declines in the housing market or to benefit from a return to growth, has also been reduced as a result of our land and lot positions in such a concentrated area. We are dependent on the services of our senior management team and certain of our key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business. We believe that our management’s experience in the homebuilding industry is a competitive strength, and that our future success depends upon our ability to retain these executives. In addition, we believe that our ability to attract, train, assimilate and retain new skilled personnel is important to the success of our business. If we are unable to retain our senior management team and certain of our key employees, or attract, train, assimilate or retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could hinder the execution of our business strategy. We continue to consider growth or expansion of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows or profitability. We continue to consider opportunities for growth, in both our existing markets, and in new markets. Additional growth of our business, either through increased land purchases, the development of larger projects, or into new business lines may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows or profitability. Any expansion of our business into new markets or new businesses could divert the attention of senior management from our existing business and could fail due to our relative lack of experience in those markets or businesses. In addition, opportunities may arise in the future to acquire other companies from third parties, and any acquisition could be difficult to integrate with our operations and could require us to assume unanticipated liabilities or expenses. 18 Table of Contents Government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely affect our business or financial results. We are subject to extensive and complex regulations that affect land development and home construction, including zoning, density restrictions, building design and building standards. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to being approved, if approved at all. We are subject to determinations by these authorities as to the adequacy of water and sewage facilities, roads and other local services. New housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. Furthermore, restrictions on immigration can create a shortage of skilled labor. Any of these regulatory issues can limit or delay home construction and increase our operating costs. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety and the environment. These matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation, mitigation and other costs or subject us to costs from fines, penalties and related litigation. These laws and regulations can also prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive areas. We may not realize our deferred income tax assets. In addition, our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Since the end of our 2007 fiscal year, we have generated significant net operating losses (“NOL”), and we may generate additional NOL in 2013. Under federal tax laws, we can use our NOL (and certain related tax credits) to reduce our future taxable income for up to 20 years, after which they expire for such purposes. Until they expire, we can carry forward our NOL (and certain related tax credits) that we do not use in any particular year to reduce our taxable income in future years, and we have recorded a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets that include the NOL (and certain related tax credits) that we have generated but have not yet realized. At December 31, 2012, we had deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, totaling $126,533 against which we have provided a full valuation allowance. Our ability to realize our net deferred tax assets is based on the extent to which we generate sustained profits and we cannot provide any assurances as to when and to what extent we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize our net deferred tax assets, whether in whole or in part. The majority of our net deferred tax asset is federal related and is valued at a 35% corporate income tax rate. If, as some lawmakers have proposed, the U.S. corporate income tax rate is lowered, we would be required to write down a roughly proportionate amount of the value of our federal net deferred tax asset to account for this lower rate. We would also need to record a corresponding write down of our valuation allowance. The lower tax rate would reduce our future federal taxes, which may put a portion of our tax credits at risk of expiring before we could use them. In addition, the benefits of our NOL, built-in losses and tax credits would be reduced or eliminated if we experience an “ownership change,” as determined under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 (“Section 382”). A Section 382 ownership change occurs if a stockholder or a group of stockholders who are deemed to own at least 5% of our common stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. If an ownership change were to occur, Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of NOL we could use to reduce our taxable income equal to the product of the total value of our outstanding equity immediately prior to the ownership change (reduced by certain items specified in Section 382) and the federal long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the ownership change. A number of complex rules apply in calculating this annual limit. While the complexity of Section 382’s provisions and the limited knowledge any public company has about the ownership of its publicly-traded stock make it difficult to determine whether an ownership change has occurred, we currently believe that an ownership change has not occurred. However, if an ownership change were to occur, the annual limit Section 382 may impose could result in a material amount of our NOL expiring unused. This would significantly impair the value of our NOL and, as a result, have a material negative impact on our consolidated financial statements. 19 Table of Contents We may be required to pay taxes and interest to the IRS as a result of the sale of certain land to the Internal Improvement Trust Fund of Florida if the IRS determines that we did not acquire adequate replacement properties. In 2006, we sold property we owned in Marion County, Florida to the Board of Trustees of the Internal Improvement Trust Fund of the State of Florida under threat of condemnation. The bulk of the land was transferred in 2006 and the final closing took place in 2007. These transactions and subsequent correspondence with the Internal Revenue Service entitled us to defer payment of income taxes of $24,355 from the gain on these sales until we sell replacement property provided we obtained qualifying replacement property for the Marion property by December 31, 2010. We believe that we acquired appropriate replacement properties by December 31, 2010. If the Internal Revenue Service determines in the future that some or all of the properties acquired by us as replacement properties do not qualify as replacement properties, we may be required to make an income tax payment plus interest on the value of the portion of the properties determined not to qualify as replacement property. We may incur additional operating expenses or delays due to compliance requirements or fines, penalties and remediation costs pertaining to environmental regulations within our markets. We are subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning land use and the protection of health and the environment including those governing the discharge of pollutants to water and air, the handling of hazardous materials and the cleanup of contaminated sites. The particular impact and requirements of environmental laws that apply to any given community vary greatly according to the community site, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former use of the site. We expect that increasingly stringent requirements will be imposed on homebuilders in the future. Environmental laws may result in delays, cause us to implement time consuming and expensive compliance programs and prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. Environmental regulations can also have an adverse impact on the availability and price of certain raw materials, such as lumber. Furthermore, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines, penalties and other sanctions and damages from third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of our failure to comply with, or liabilities under, applicable environmental laws and regulations. This is particularly true in the event that we commence construction of the Poinciana Parkway as it runs through the Reedy Creek Mitigation Bank. In addition, we are subject to third-party challenges under environmental laws and regulations to the permits and other approvals required for our projects and operations. Changes in global or regional environmental conditions and governmental actions in response to such changes may adversely affect us by increasing the costs of or restricting our planned or future growth activities. There is growing concern from members of the scientific community and the general public that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases and other human activities have or will cause significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. An increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions and environmental events could limit, delay and/or increase the costs to develop land and build new homes and reduce the value of our land and housing inventory in locations that become less desirable to consumers or blocked to development. Projected climate change, if it occurs, may exacerbate the scarcity of water and other natural resources in affected regions, which could limit, prevent or increase the costs of residential development in certain areas. In addition, government mandates, standards or regulations intended to mitigate or reduce greenhouse gas emissions or projected climate change impacts could result in prohibitions or severe restrictions on land development in certain areas, increased energy, transportation and raw material costs that make building materials less available or more expensive, or cause us to incur compliance expenses and other financial obligations to meet permitting or land development- or home construction-related requirements that we may be unable to fully recover (due to market conditions or other factors), and may reduce our housing gross profit margins and may adversely impact our consolidated financial statements, potentially to a material degree. As a result, climate change impacts, and laws and land development and home construction standards, and/or the manner in which they are interpreted or implemented, to address potential climate change impacts, could increase our costs and have a long-term adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial statements. As we continue to increase our dependence on digital technologies to conduct operations, our risks associated with cyber security have also increased, leaving us subject to possible frequent and severe cyber incidents. For a number of years, we have been increasing our reliance on computers and digital technology. Many of our files have been digitized and more of our employees are working in almost paperless environments. We have also made changes, some significant, to our hardware and software environments and some of these transitions have not been successful, taken longer than anticipated and/or are still in progress. All of these activities may give rise to material cyber security risks and potential costs and consequences that cannot be estimated or predicted with any certainty. We have outsourced a number of our IT functions including IT support of our infrastructure and software. We are continuing to take steps to secure our confidential information from our vendors as well as third parties who may be seeking to infiltrate our systems. At this time we do not have any specific insurance for cyber security events. Management will continue to monitor our IT environment and determine whether our business operations merit further insurance coverage. Although we have not experienced any cyber attacks to date, we consider a future cyber attack a material concern that could have severe financial and other business implications. If a large number of shares of our common stock or equity-related securities become eligible for future issuance, the ownership interest of our current stockholders could be diluted and our share price could decline. Issuances of shares of common stock upon conversion of our 7.50% Notes, 7.50% Exchange Notes and 4.50% Notes, as well as the issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities either for new consideration or in connection with restructuring existing indebtedness, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Any such future issuances could dilute the ownership interests of stockholders, and we cannot predict the effect that future issuances of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock nor can we predict our future needs to fund our operations or balance sheet with future equity issuances. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1B . UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 