ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our securities can be materially and adversely affected by many events and conditions, including the following: Risks Associated With Our Industry Global political, economic and market conditions could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by global political, economic and market conditions and the condition of the oil and natural gas industry. Our operating results and the forward-looking information we provide are based on our current assumptions about oil and natural gas supply and demand, oil and natural gas prices, rig count and other market trends. Our assumptions on these matters are in turn based on currently available information, which is subject to change. The oil and natural gas industry is extremely volatile and subject to change based on political and economic factors outside our control. This volatility caused oil and natural gas companies and drilling contractors to change their strategies and expenditure levels late in 2008 and in 2009. We have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in 2010, significant fluctuations in operating results based on these changes. Our industry is highly competitive, with intense price competition. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Pricing is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. The competitive environment has intensified as mergers among oil and natural gas companies have reduced the number of available customers. The competitive environment has also intensified, late in 2008 and 12 Table of Contents 2009, due to the decrease in the U.S. rig count and the demand for our services. Many other oilfield services companies are larger than we are and have resources that are significantly greater than our resources. These competitors are better able to withstand industry downturns, compete on the basis of price and acquire new equipment and technologies, all of which could affect our revenues and profitability. These competitors compete with us both for customers and for acquisitions of other businesses. This competition may cause our business to suffer. We believe that competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future. Risks Associated With Our Company Our business depends on spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and this spending and our business may be adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. Demand for our products and services is dependent upon the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development activities of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. The industry’s willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon the availability of attractive drilling prospects, the price of oil and natural gas, and the prevailing view of future product prices. Oil and natural gas prices have been extremely volatile and have declined significantly from their historic highs in mid-2008. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will depress levels of exploration, development, and production activity. Such price declines reduce drilling activity and demand for our services, which could lead to lower pricing for our products and services. Accordingly, prolonged periods of lower drilling activity and the reduction in our customers’ expenditures could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Oil and natural gas prices depend on many factors beyond our control, including the following: • economic conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere; • changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of production of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly called OPEC; • the level of production of non-OPEC countries; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil and natural gas producing activities; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • advances in exploration, development and production technologies; and • the availability of capital for exploration and production companies. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause these and other oil and natural gas producers to make additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if commodity prices remain at historically high levels. Historically, we have been dependent on a few customers operating in a single industry; the loss of one or more customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers are engaged in the oil and natural gas exploration business in the U.S., Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and elsewhere. Historically, we have been dependent upon a few customers for a significant portion of our revenues. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, one of our customers, Pan American Energy represented 35.5%, 28.5% and 20.7% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. Pan American Energy also contributes a majority of the revenue derived from our Drilling and Completion operations. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, Pan American Energy represented 59.2%, 66.0% and 51.0% of our Drilling and Completion revenues, respectively. 13 Table of Contents The strategic agreement with Pan American Energy currently has an expiration date of June 30, 2011. However, Pan American Energy may terminate the agreement (i) without cause at any time with 60 days’ notice, or (ii) in the event of a breach of the agreement by us if such breach is not cured within 20 days of notice of the breach. Because a majority of the revenues of our Drilling and Completion operations are currently generated under this agreement, the revenues and earnings of our Drilling and Completion operations will be materially adversely affected if this agreement is terminated unless we are able to enter into a satisfactory substitute arrangement. We cannot assure you that in the event of such a termination we would be able to enter into a substitute arrangement on terms similar to those contained in the current agreement with Pan American Energy. In addition, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of our major customers terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts or refuses to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers at comparable rates. This concentration of customers may increase our overall exposure to credit risk. Our customers will likely be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. Our financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected if one or more of our significant customers fails to pay us or ceases to contract with us for our services on terms that are favorable to us or at all. Our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate some of our Drilling and Completion contracts during periods of depressed market conditions or if we experience operational difficulties. Substantially all of our Drilling and Completion business’ contracts with major customers are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed charge per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate existing contracts if we experience operational problems. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract for operational difficulties is increased during periods of market weakness. The cancellation of a number of our drilling contracts could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. If we are unable to renew or obtain new and favorable contracts for rigs whose contracts are expiring or are terminated, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. We have a number of contracts that will expire in 2010 and 2011. Our ability to renew these contracts or obtain new contracts and the terms of any such contracts will depend on market conditions. We may be unable to renew our expiring contracts or obtain new contracts for the rigs under contracts that have expired or been terminated, and the dayrates under any new contracts may be substantially below the existing dayrates, which could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Failure to secure a drilling contract prior to deployment of a rig under construction or any other rigs we may construct in the future prior to their deployment could adversely affect our future results of operations. We have two rigs being constructed that are scheduled for delivery in second and fourth quarters of 2010. We have not yet obtained a drilling contract for these rigs. Our failure to secure a drilling contract for any rig under construction prior to its deployment could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. An oversupply of comparable rigs in the geographic markets in which we compete could depress the utilization rates and dayrates for our rigs and materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Utilization rates, which are the number of days a rig actually works divided by the number of days the rig is available for work, and dayrates, which are the contract prices customers pay for rigs per day, are also affected by the total supply of comparable rigs available for service in the geographic markets in which we compete. Improvements in demand in a geographic market may cause our competitors to respond by moving 14 Table of Contents competing rigs into the market, thus intensifying price competition. Significant new rig construction could also intensify price competition. In the past, there have been prolonged periods of rig oversupply with correspondingly depressed utilization rates and dayrates largely due to earlier, speculative construction of new rigs. Improvements in dayrates and expectations of longer-term, sustained improvements in utilization rates and dayrates for drilling rigs may lead to construction of new rigs. These increases in the supply of rigs could depress the utilization rates and dayrates for our rigs and materially reduce our revenues and profitability. The loss of the services of key executives or our failure to attract and retain skilled workers and key personnel could hurt our operations. We are dependent upon the efforts and skills of our executives to finance and manage our business, identify and consummate additional acquisitions and obtain and retain customers. These executives include our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Munawar H. Hidayatallah. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our personnel. In addition, companies in our industry, including us, are dependent upon the available labor pool of skilled employees. Our development and expansion will require additional experienced management and operations personnel. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify and retain these employees. We compete with other oilfield services businesses and other employers to attract and retain qualified personnel with the technical skills and experience required to provide our customers with the highest quality service. We are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. A shortage in the labor pool of skilled workers, increases in wage rates or changes in applicable laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain personnel and could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages. There can be no assurance that labor costs will not increase. Any increase in our operating costs could cause our business to suffer. The operations and financial condition of our Drilling and Completion business could be affected by union activity and general labor unrest. Additionally, the labor expenses of our Drilling and Completion business could increase as a result of governmental regulation of payments to employees. In Argentina and Brazil, labor organizations have substantial support and have considerable political influence. The demands of labor organizations in Argentina have increased in recent years as a result of the general labor unrest and dissatisfaction resulting from the disparity between the cost of living and salaries in Argentina as a result of the devaluation of the Argentine Peso. There can be no assurance that our Drilling and Completion business will not face labor disruptions in the future or that any such disruptions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The Argentine government has in the past and may in the future promulgate laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to maintain minimum wage levels and provide specified benefits to employees, including significant mandatory severance payments. It is possible the government will adopt measures that will increase salaries or require our Drilling and Completion business to provide additional benefits, which would increase our costs and potentially reduce our profitability, cash flow and/or liquidity. In addition, in many of the countries in which we operate, our workforce has certain compensation and other rights arising from our various collective bargaining agreements and from statutory requirements of those countries relating to involuntary terminations. If we choose to cease operations in one of those countries or if market conditions reduce the demand for our drilling services in such a country, we could incur costs, which may be material, associated with workforce reductions. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our Drilling and Completion business often has to make upgrade and refurbishment expenditures for its rig fleet to comply with our quality management and preventive maintenance system or contractual requirements or when repairs are required in response to an inspection by a governmental authority. We may also make significant expenditures when rigs are moved from one location to another. Additionally, we may 15 Table of Contents make substantial expenditures for the construction of new rigs. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project. We have two land drilling rigs that were substantially completed in 2009. One of these rigs worked for a limited period before encountering certain operational malfunctions. Currently both rigs are at the original manufacturer’s facility undergoing modifications or improvements. At this time we cannot be assured that these rigs will not require significant expenditures to bring them to satisfactory operational standards and we are uncertain as to when these rigs will be available for service. We have two additional drilling rigs scheduled to be delivered in 2010 by a different manufacturer. Significant cost overruns or delays could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade, refurbishment or construction projects could exceed our planned capital expenditures, impairing our ability to service our debt obligations. Severe weather could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: • curtailment of services; • weather-related damage to facilities and equipment resulting in suspension of operations; • inability to deliver materials to job sites in accordance with contract schedules; and • loss of productivity. For example, oil and natural gas operations of our customers located offshore and onshore in the Gulf of Mexico and in Mexico have from time to time been adversely affected by floods, hurricanes and tropical storms, resulting in reduced demand for our services. In 2008, Hurricanes Gustav and Ike disrupted our operations along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast and the East Texas/West Louisiana corridor. Further, our customers’ operations in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions of the U.S. are also adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions. This limits our access to these job sites and our ability to service wells in these areas. These constraints decrease drilling activity and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. We have recorded substantial goodwill as the result of our acquisitive nature and as such goodwill is subject to periodic reviews of impairment. We perform purchase price allocations to intangible assets when we make a business combination. Business combinations and purchase price allocations have been consummated for acquisitions in all of our reportable segments. The excess of the purchase price after allocation of fair values to tangible assets is allocated to identifiable intangibles and thereafter to goodwill. We conduct periodic reviews of goodwill for impairment in value. Any impairments would result in a non-cash charge against earnings in the period reviewed, which may or may not create a tax benefit, and would have a corresponding decrease in stockholders’ equity. We reviewed goodwill at December 31, 2009 and recorded no impairment but based on our review of goodwill at December 31, 2008 we recorded an impairment of $115.8 million, which was all of our goodwill for the Rental Services segment as well as the impairment of goodwill associated with our Tubular Services and Production Services businesses within our Oilfield Services segment. In the event that market conditions deteriorate or we have a prolonged downturn, we may be required to record an additional impairment of goodwill and such impairment could be material. 16 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and/or internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our operations. As part of our growth strategy, we may make additional strategic acquisitions of privately held businesses. It is likely that our future acquired businesses will not have been required to maintain such disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls prior to their acquisition. Likewise, upon the completion of any future acquisition, we will be required to integrate the acquired business into our consolidated company’s system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, but we cannot assure you as to how long the integration process may take for any business that we may acquire. Furthermore, during the integration process, we may not be able to fully implement our consolidated disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and could require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. If it is determined that our disclosure controls and procedures and/or our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective and/or we fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on a timely basis, we may not be able to provide reliable financial and other reports or prevent fraud, which, in turn: • could harm our business and operating results, • cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, • have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock or • adversely affect our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC. Any failure to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC may give rise to a default under the indentures governing our outstanding 9.0% senior notes due 2014, which we refer to as our 9.0% senior notes, our outstanding 8.5% senior notes due 2017, which we refer to as our 8.5% senior notes and any other debt securities we may offer and, ultimately, an acceleration of amounts due thereunder. In addition, a default under the indentures generally will also give rise to a default under our credit agreement and could cause the acceleration of amounts due under the credit agreement. If an acceleration of our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes or our other debt were to occur, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay such obligations. Our strategic plan may not achieve the intended results. In 2009, we filed a five-year plan outlining our strategic decision to focus our geographical expansion in the international markets, particularly Columbia, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Libya, Egypt and the MENA region. As part of this plan, we have begun to transfer idle assets overseas. We may not be successful in executing our strategy. We may not be able to find suitable international acquisitions. In addition, engaging in any international acquisition will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition. We may need additional financing in order to fund additional acquisitions. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other businesses. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. If not successful in achieving our strategic plan may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We do business in international jurisdictions whose political and regulatory environments and compliance regimes differ from those in the U.S: A significant amount of our revenue is attributable to operations in foreign countries. These activities accounted for approximately 62.8% of our consolidated revenue in the year ended December 31, 2009. Risks associated with our operations in foreign areas include, but are not limited to: • political instability, terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances; • changes in laws or policies regarding the award of contracts; 17 Table of Contents • the inability to collect or repatriate currency, income, capital or assets; • expropriation of assets; • nationalization of components of the energy industry in the geographic areas where we operate; • foreign currency fluctuations and devaluation; and • new economic and tax policies. Part of our strategy is to prudently and opportunistically acquire businesses and assets that complement our existing products and services, and to expand our geographic footprint. If we make acquisitions in other countries, we may increase our exposure to the risks discussed above. We attempt to limit the risks of currency fluctuation and restrictions on currency repatriation where possible by obtaining contracts providing for payment of a percentage of the contract indexed to the U.S. dollar exchange rate. To the extent possible, we seek to limit our exposure to local currencies by matching the acceptance of local currencies to our local expense requirements in those currencies. Although we have done this in the past, we may not be able to take these actions in the future, thereby exposing us to foreign currency fluctuations that could cause our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows to deteriorate materially. Additionally, in some jurisdictions we are subject to foreign governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of contracts to local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These regulations may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our international business operations also include projects in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist. We are subject to the anti-bribery restrictions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which make it illegal to give anything of value to foreign officials or employees or agents of nationally owned oil companies in order to obtain or retain any business or other advantage. Violations of these laws could result in monetary and criminal penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. Devaluation of the Argentine Peso, the Mexican Peso or the Brazilian Real could adversely affect our results of operations. These currencies have been subject to significant devaluation in the past and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. Given the economic and political uncertainties which have historically existed in Argentina, it is impossible to predict whether, and to what extent, the value of the Argentine Peso may depreciate or appreciate against the U.S. dollar. We cannot predict how these uncertainties will affect our financial results, but there is a risk that our financial performance could be adversely affected. Moreover, we cannot predict whether the Argentine government will further modify its monetary policy and, if so, what effect any of these changes could have on the value of the Argentine Peso. Such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similar economic and political turmoil in Mexico and Brazil could also expose us to unpredictable currency exchange rates in these countries that may result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Argentina continues to face considerable political and economic uncertainty. Although general economic conditions have shown improvement and political protests and social disturbances have diminished considerably since the economic crisis of 2001 and 2002, the rapid and radical nature of the changes in the Argentine social, political, economic and legal environment over the past several years and the absence of a clear political consensus in favor of any particular set of economic policies have given rise to significant uncertainties about the country’s economic and political future. It is currently unclear whether the economic and political instability experienced over the past several years will continue and it is possible that, despite recent economic growth, Argentina may return to a deeper recession, higher inflation and 18 Table of Contents unemployment and greater social unrest. If instability persists, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In the event of further social or political crisis, companies in Argentina may also face the risk of further civil and social unrest, strikes, expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts and changes in taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims. An increase in inflation in Argentina could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Historically, the devaluation of the Argentine Peso has created pressures on the domestic price system that generated high rates of inflation. We cannot assure you that inflation rates will remain stable in the future. Significant inflation in Argentina could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those that may impose significant liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the energy industry in general and the environment in particular. For example, many aspects of our Drilling and Completion operations are subject to laws and regulations that may relate directly or indirectly to the contract drilling and well servicing industries, including those requiring us to control the discharge of oil and other contaminants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. The countries where our Drilling and Completion business operates have environmental laws and regulations covering the discharge of oil and other contaminants and protection of the environment in connection with operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and even criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit our operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may in certain circumstances impose strict liability, rendering us liable for environmental and natural resource damages without regard to negligence or fault on our part. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or development drilling for oil and gas could materially limit future contract drilling opportunities or materially increase our costs or both. Environmental liabilities relating to discontinued operations could result in substantial losses. Since our reorganization under the U.S. federal bankruptcy laws in 1988, a number of parties, including the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, have asserted that we are responsible for the cleanup of hazardous waste sites with respect to our pre-bankruptcy activities. We believe that such claims are barred by applicable bankruptcy law, and we have not experienced any material expense in relation to any such claims. However, if we do not prevail with respect to these claims in the future, or if additional environmental claims are asserted against us relating to our current or future activities in the oil and natural gas industry, we could become subject to material environmental liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Products liability claims relating to discontinued operations could result in substantial losses. Since our reorganization under the U.S. federal bankruptcy laws in 1988, we have been regularly named in products liability lawsuits primarily resulting from the manufacture of products containing asbestos. In connection with our bankruptcy, a special products liability trust was established and funded to address products liability claims. This product liability trust is in the process of being dissolved. We believe that product liability claims relating to our business prior to bankruptcy are barred by applicable bankruptcy law. Since 1988, no court has ruled that we are responsible for products liability claims. However, if we are held responsible for product liability claims, we could suffer substantial losses that could have a material adverse 19 Table of Contents effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have not manufactured products containing asbestos since our reorganization in 1988. We may be subject to claims for personal injury and property damage, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our products and services are used for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas. These operations are subject to inherent hazards that can cause personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment, the environment and marine life, and suspension of operations. Litigation arising from an accident at a location where our products or services are used or provided may cause us to be named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potentially large claims. We maintain customary insurance to protect our business against these potential losses. Our insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. However, we could become subject to material uninsured liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our Drilling and Completion operations are subject to hazards that are customary for oil and natural gas drilling operations, including blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of well control, cratering, oil and gas well fires and explosions, natural disasters, pollution and mechanical failure. Any of these risks could result in damage to or destruction of drilling equipment, personal injury and property damage, suspension of operations or environmental damage. Generally, drilling contracts provide for the division of responsibilities between a drilling company and its customer, and we generally obtain indemnification from customers by contract for some of these risks. However, there may be limitations on the enforceability of indemnification provisions that allow a contractor to be indemnified for damages resulting from the contractor’s fault. To the extent that we are unable to transfer such risks to customers by contract or indemnification agreements, we generally seek protection through insurance. However, we have a significant amount of self-insured retention or deductible for certain losses relating to workers’ compensation, employers’ liability, general liability and property damage. There is no assurance that such insurance or indemnification agreements will adequately protect us against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards and risks described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or for which we are not indemnified against, or the failure of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, there can be no assurance that insurance will continue to be available to cover any or all of these risks, or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs will not rise significantly in the future, so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive. Risks Associated With an Investment in Our Common Stock Our common stock price has been volatile, which could adversely affect our business and cause our stockholders to suffer significant losses The trading price of our common stock has historically fluctuated significantly. For example, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, the high sales price per share of our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange was $6.07 and the low sales price per share was $0.71. The volatility of our stock price depends upon many factors including: • decreases in prices for oil and natural gas resulting in decreased demand for our services; • variations in our operating results and failure to meet expectations of investors and analysts; • increases in interest rates; • illiquidity of the market for our common stock; • developments specifically affecting the economies in Latin America; • sales of common stock by existing stockholders; • our substantial indebtedness; and • other developments affecting us or the financial markets. 20 Table of Contents A reduced stock price will result in a loss to investors and will adversely affect our ability to issue stock to fund our activities. Substantial sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We had 71,459,876 shares of common stock outstanding as of February 26, 2010 and 14,202,146 shares reserved for issuance upon conversion of our convertible preferred stock. At February 26, 2010, we had reserved an additional 8,552,387 shares of common stock for issuance under our equity compensation plans, of which 701,732 shares were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options with a weighted average exercise price of $6.31 per share. As of the same date, there were a total of 433,960 shares of non-performance-based restricted stock and 481,666 shares of performance-based restricted stock outstanding under our equity compensation plans. In connection with our acquisition of DLS we entered into an investors rights agreement with the seller parties to the DLS stock purchase agreement, who collectively hold over 15% of our common stock as of February 26, 2010 In addition, in connection with our backstopped rights offering, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Lime Rock who hold 19,889,044 shares of our common stock and 36,393 shares of our preferred stock as of February 26, 2010, which are convertible into 14,202,146 shares of our common stock. Pursuant to those agreements, the DLS sellers and Lime Rock are entitled to certain rights with respect to the registration of the sale of such common shares under the Securities Act. By exercising their registration rights and causing a large number of shares to be sold in the public market, these holders could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We cannot predict whether future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for sale, will adversely affect the market price for our common stock or our ability to raise capital by offering equity securities. The DLS sellers and Lime Rock control substantial ownership stakes in us and have board nomination rights, and they are therefore able to exert significant influence on our affairs and actions, including matters submitted for a stockholder vote. The DLS sellers collectively hold over 15% of our issued and outstanding common stock as of February 26, 2010. Under the investors rights agreement that we entered into in connection with the DLS acquisition, the DLS sellers have the right to designate two nominees for election to our board of directors. Lime Rock currently holds 19,889,044 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 27.8% of our issued and outstanding shares as of February 26, 2010. In addition, Lime Rock owns 36,393 shares of preferred stock which are convertible into 14,202,146 shares of our common stock. Through its ownership of common and preferred stock, Lime Rock controls, in the aggregate, 35% of our stockholders’ voting power. Pursuant to the investment agreement we entered into with Lime Rock, Lime Rock has the right to designate up to four people to serve on our board of directors based upon the amount of our common stock Lime Rock and its affiliates beneficially own (counting the preferred stock on an as converted basis). Lime Rock has the right to designate four nominees for election to our board of directors and have designated two directors at this time. As a result, the DLS sellers and Lime Rock each have considerable influence over the composition of our board of directors, our future operations and strategy and our future corporate actions, including matters submitted for a stockholder vote. Following the earlier of June 26, 2012 and the date on which the transfer restrictions set forth in the Investment Agreement expire, Lime Rock will not be prohibited from acquiring additional shares of our common stock or converting its shares of preferred stock, even if such conversion will result in its control of more than 35% of our stockholders’ voting power. As a result, Lime Rock’s influence over us may increase in the future. 21 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest between the DLS sellers and Lime Rock, on the one hand, and other holders of our securities, on the other hand, may arise with respect to sales of shares of capital stock owned by the DLS sellers or Lime Rock or other matters. In addition, the interests of the DLS sellers or Lime Rock regarding any proposed merger or sale may differ from the interests of other holders of our securities. The board designation rights described above could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the market price of our securities and/or our ability to meet our obligations thereunder. Existing stockholders’ interest in us may be diluted by additional issuances of equity securities. We expect to issue additional equity securities to fund the acquisition of additional businesses and pursuant to employee benefit plans. We may also issue additional equity securities for other purposes. These securities may have the same rights as our common stock or, alternatively, may have dividend, liquidation, or other preferences to our common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities will dilute the holdings of existing stockholders and may reduce the share price of our common stock. Risks Associated With Our Indebtedness We are a holding company, and as a result we are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including with respect to the notes. We are a holding company and do not conduct any business operations of our own. Our principal assets are the equity interests we own in our operating subsidiaries, either directly or indirectly. As a result, we are dependent upon cash dividends, distributions or other transfers we receive from our subsidiaries to repay any debt we may incur, and to meet our other obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make payments to us will depend on their operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate, tax and other laws and regulations and agreements of those subsidiaries. For example, the corporate laws of some jurisdictions prohibit the payment of dividends by any subsidiary unless the subsidiary has a capital surplus or net profits in the current or immediately preceding fiscal year. Payments or distributions from our subsidiaries also could be subject to restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, and monetary transfer restrictions in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. Any right that we have to receive any assets of/or distributions from any subsidiary upon its bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization, or to realize proceeds from the sale of the assets of any subsidiary, will be junior to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. We have a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from making principal and interest payments on the notes and our other debt. At December 31, 2009, we have approximately $492.2 million of consolidated total indebtedness outstanding and approximately $85.8 million of additional secured borrowing capacity available under our credit agreement. In addition, we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. Each of the indentures governing our 9.0% senior notes and our 8.5% senior notes permits us to incur additional debt, and our credit agreement permits additional borrowings. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, these related risks could increase. We may not maintain sufficient revenues to meet our capital expenditure requirements and our financial obligations. Also, we may not be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic 22 Table of Contents conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansion and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient for payment of our debt in the future. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure our debt to meet our debt service and other obligations, we cannot assure you that the terms of any such transaction would be satisfactory to us or if or how soon any such transaction could be completed. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to refinance our existing debt, expand our current operations or acquire new businesses, which could result in a failure to grow or result in defaults in our obligations under our credit agreement, our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes or our other debt securities. In order to refinance indebtedness, expand existing operations and acquire additional businesses, we will require substantial amounts of capital. There can be no assurance that financing, whether from equity or debt financings or other sources, will be available or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us. The turmoil in the financial markets since mid-2008 and its impact on the financial condition of the banking sector and other lenders, has significantly reduced access to the capital markets. It is uncertain to what extent capital will be available to us in the future and at what cost. If we are unable to obtain financing, we will be unable to acquire additional businesses and may be unable to meet our obligations under our credit agreement, our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes or any other debt securities we may offer. The indenture governing our 9.0% senior notes, the indenture governing our 8.5% senior notes and our credit agreement impose restrictions on us that may limit the discretion of management in operating our business and that, in turn, could impair our ability to meet our obligations. The indenture governing our 9.0% senior notes, the indenture governing our 8.5% senior notes and our credit agreement contain various restrictive covenants that limit management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • make certain investments or pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or purchase or redeem or retire capital stock; • sell assets, including capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries; • restrict dividends or other payments by restricted subsidiaries; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • merge or consolidate with another company. Our revolving credit agreement requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. If we fail to comply with the financial ratio covenants, it could limit or eliminate the availability under our revolving credit agreement. Our ability to maintain such financial ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, and we cannot assure you that we will maintain or meet such ratios and tests or that the lenders under the credit agreement will waive any failure to meet such ratios or tests. The decrease in demand for our services experienced in 2009 adversely impacts our ability to maintain or meet such financial ratios. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict our ability to expand, to pursue our business strategies and otherwise to conduct our business. A breach of these covenants could result in a default under the indentures governing our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes and any other debt securities we may offer and/or the 23 Table of Contents credit agreement. If there were an event of default under any of the indentures or the credit agreement, the affected creditors could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. Additionally, if we fail to repay indebtedness under our credit agreement when it becomes due, the lenders under the credit agreement could proceed against the assets which we have pledged to them as security. Our assets and cash flow might not be sufficient to repay our outstanding debt in the event of a default. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 