ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our securities can be materially and adversely affected by many events and conditions, including the following: Risks Associated With Our Industry Global political, economic and market conditions could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by global political, economic and market conditions and the condition of the oil and natural gas industry. During recent months, there has been a substantial downturn in business activity and in the worldwide credit and capital markets that has led to a worldwide economic recession. Our operating results and the forward-looking information we provide are based on our current assumptions about oil and natural gas supply and demand, oil and natural gas prices, rig count and other market trends. Our assumptions on these matters are in turn based on currently available information, which is subject to change. The oil and natural gas industry is extremely volatile and subject to change based on political and economic factors outside our control. This volatility causes oil and natural gas companies and drilling contractors to change their strategies and expenditure levels. We have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in 2009, significant fluctuations in operating results based on these changes. The current sustained declines in oil and natural gas prices, particularly in combination with the constrained capital markets and overall economic downturn, has resulted in a decline in activity by customers in our Oilfield Services and Rental Services segments during the first quarter of 2009. We cannot predict the timing or the duration of this or any other economic downturn in the economy and if the current conditions continue, our operating results and financial conditions could be materially adversely affected. Our industry is highly competitive, with intense price competition. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Pricing is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. The competitive environment has intensified as mergers among oil and natural gas companies have reduced the number of available customers. The competitive environment has also intensified, late in 2008 and 2009, due to the decrease in the U.S. rig count and the demand for our services. Many other oilfield services companies are larger than we are and have resources that are significantly greater than our resources. These competitors are better able to withstand industry downturns, compete on the basis of price and acquire new equipment and technologies, all of which could affect our revenues and profitability. These competitors compete with us both for customers and for acquisitions of other businesses. This competition may cause our 13 Table of Contents business to suffer. We believe that competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future. Risks Associated With Our Company Our business depends on spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and this spending and our business may be adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. Demand for our products and services is dependent upon the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development activities of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. The industry’s willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon the availability of attractive drilling prospects, the price of oil and natural gas, and the prevailing view of future product prices. Oil and natural gas prices have been extremely volatile in recent months, and have declined significantly from their historic highs in mid-2008. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will depress levels of exploration, development, and production activity. Such price declines can be expected to reduce drilling activity and demand for our services, which could lead to lower pricing for our products and services. Accordingly, prolonged periods of lower drilling activity and the reduction in our customers’ expenditures could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Oil and natural gas prices depend on many factors beyond our control, including the following: • economic conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere; • changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of production of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly called OPEC; • the level of production of non-OPEC countries; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil and natural gas producing activities; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • advances in exploration, development and production technologies; and • the availability of capital for exploration and production companies. Recent adverse changes in the capital markets have also caused a number of oil and natural gas producers to announce reductions in capital budgets for future periods. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause these and other oil and natural gas producers to make additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if commodity prices remain at historically high levels. Historically, we have been dependent on a few customers operating in a single industry; the loss of one or more customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers are engaged in the oil and natural gas exploration business in the U.S., Argentina, Mexico and elsewhere. Historically, we have been dependent upon a few customers for a significant portion of our revenues. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, one of our customers, Pan American Energy represented 28.5%, 20.7% and 11.7% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. Pan American Energy also contributes a majority of the revenue derived from our Drilling and Completion operations. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, Pan American Energy represented 66.0%, 51.0% and 45.6% of our Drilling and Completion revenues, respectively. Additionally, in 2007, we placed orders for 16 new service rigs and four drilling rigs pursuant to our strategic agreement with Pan American Energy. The 16 service rigs and one of the drilling rigs were delivered and placed in service in 2008 and an additional drilling rig will be activated in March 2009. The agreement with Pan American Energy currently has an expiration date of June 30, 2011. However, Pan American Energy 14 Table of Contents may terminate the agreement (i) without cause at any time with 60 days’ notice, or (ii) in the event of a breach of the agreement by us if such breach is not cured within 20 days of notice of the breach. Because a majority of the revenues of our Drilling and Completion operations are currently generated under this agreement, the revenues and earnings of our Drilling and Completion operations will be materially adversely affected if this agreement is terminated unless we are able to enter into a satisfactory substitute arrangement. We cannot assure you that in the event of such a termination we would be able to enter into a substitute arrangement on terms similar to those contained in the current agreement with Pan American Energy. This concentration of customers may increase our overall exposure to credit risk, and customers will likely be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. Our financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected if one or more of our significant customers fails to pay us or ceases to contract with us for our services on terms that are favorable to us or at all. Our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate some of our Drilling and Completion contracts during periods of depressed market conditions or if we experience operational difficulties. Substantially all of our Drilling and Completion business’ contracts with major customers are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed charge per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate existing contracts if we experience operational problems. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract for operational difficulties is increased during periods of market weakness. The cancellation of a number of our drilling contracts could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. An oversupply of comparable rigs in the geographic markets in which we compete could depress the utilization rates and dayrates for our rigs and materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Utilization rates, which are the number of days a rig actually works divided by the number of days the rig is available for work, and dayrates, which are the contract prices customers pay for rigs per day, are also affected by the total supply of comparable rigs available for service in the geographic markets in which we compete. Improvements in demand in a geographic market may cause our competitors to respond by moving competing rigs into the market, thus intensifying price competition. Significant new rig construction could also intensify price competition. In the past, there have been prolonged periods of rig oversupply with correspondingly depressed utilization rates and dayrates largely due to earlier, speculative construction of new rigs. Improvements in dayrates and expectations of longer-term, sustained improvements in utilization rates and dayrates for drilling rigs may lead to construction of new rigs. These increases in the supply of rigs could depress the utilization rates and dayrates for our rigs and materially reduce our revenues and profitability. We may experience increased labor costs or the unavailability of skilled workers and the failure to retain key personnel could hurt our operations. Companies in our industry, including us, are dependent upon the available labor pool of skilled employees. We compete with other oilfield services businesses and other employers to attract and retain qualified personnel with the technical skills and experience required to provide our customers with the highest quality service. We are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. A shortage in the labor pool of skilled workers or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain personnel and could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages. There can be no assurance that labor costs will not increase. Any increase in our operating costs could cause our business to suffer. 15 Table of Contents The operations and financial condition of our Drilling and Completion business could be affected by union activity and general labor unrest. Additionally, the labor expenses of our Drilling and Completion business could increase as a result of governmental regulation of payments to employees. In Argentina and Brazil, labor organizations have substantial support and have considerable political influence. The demands of labor organizations in Argentina have increased in recent years as a result of the general labor unrest and dissatisfaction resulting from the disparity between the cost of living and salaries in Argentina as a result of the devaluation of the Argentine Peso. There can be no assurance that our Drilling and Completion business will not face labor disruptions in the future or that any such disruptions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The Argentine government has in the past and may in the future promulgate laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to maintain minimum wage levels and provide specified benefits to employees, including significant mandatory severance payments. In the aftermath of the Argentine economic crisis of 2001 and 2002, both the government and private sector companies have experienced significant pressure from employees and labor organizations relating to wage levels and employee benefits. In early 2005, the Argentine government promised not to order salary increases by decree. However, there has been no abatement of pressure to mandate salary increases, and it is possible the government will adopt measures that will increase salaries or require our Drilling and Completion business to provide additional benefits, which would increase our costs and potentially reduce our profitability, cash flow and/or liquidity. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our Drilling and Completion business often has to make upgrade and refurbishment expenditures for its rig fleet to comply with our quality management and preventive maintenance system or contractual requirements or when repairs are required in response to an inspection by a governmental authority. We may also make significant expenditures when rigs are moved from one location to another. Additionally, we may make substantial expenditures for the construction of new rigs. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project. Significant cost overruns or delays could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade, refurbishment or construction projects could exceed our planned capital expenditures, impairing our ability to service our debt obligations. Currently, we have two land drilling rigs under construction that are to be completed in the second quarter of 2009. If these rigs are not completed on time, our financing commitment will expire. The turmoil in the financial markets in 2008 and its impact on the financial condition of the banking sector and other lenders, has increased the uncertainty that capital will be available to us, or available at a reasonable cost. As such, we may be unable to complete the acquisition of these two rigs. In addition, we have halted construction on two other land drilling rigs because of the drop in the U.S. rig count and the feasibility of utilizing the rigs when completed. Severe weather could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: • curtailment of services; • weather-related damage to facilities and equipment resulting in suspension of operations; • inability to deliver materials to job sites in accordance with contract schedules; and • loss of productivity. For example, oil and natural gas operations of our customers located offshore and onshore in the Gulf of Mexico and in Mexico have from time to time been adversely affected by floods, hurricanes and tropical 16 Table of Contents storms, resulting in reduced demand for our services. In 2008, Hurricanes Gustav and Ike disrupted our operations along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast and the East Texas/West Louisiana corridor. Further, our customers’ operations in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions of the U.S. are also adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions. This limits our access to these job sites and our ability to service wells in these areas. These constraints decrease drilling activity and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. We have recorded substantial goodwill as the result of our acquisitive nature and as such goodwill is subject to periodic reviews of impairment. We perform purchase price allocations to intangible assets when we make a business combination. Business combinations and purchase price allocations have been consummated for acquisitions in all of our reportable segments. The excess of the purchase price after allocation of fair values to tangible assets is allocated to identifiable intangibles and thereafter to goodwill. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, or FASB No. 142, we conduct periodic reviews of goodwill for impairment in value. Any impairments would result in a non-cash charge against earnings in the period reviewed, which may or may not create a tax benefit, and would have a corresponding decrease in stockholders’ equity. We reviewed goodwill at December 31, 2008 and recorded an impairment of $115.8 million, which was all of our goodwill for the Rental Services segment as well as the impairment of goodwill associated with our Tubular Services and Production Services businesses within our Oilfield Services segment. In the event that market conditions continue to deteriorate or we have a prolonged downturn, we may be required to record an additional impairment of goodwill and such impairment could be material. We may fail to acquire additional businesses, which will restrict our growth and may have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations under the notes. Part of our long term business strategy has been to acquire companies operating in the oilfield services industry. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in acquiring any additional companies. Successful acquisition of new companies will depend on various factors, including but not limited to: • our ability to obtain financing; • the competitive environment for acquisitions; and • the integration and synergy issues described in the next risk factor. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire and successfully operate any particular business or that we will be able to expand into areas that we have targeted. If we fail to acquire additional businesses or are unable to finance such acquisitions, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to meet our debt obligations may be materially adversely affected. Difficulties in integrating acquired businesses may result in reduced revenues and income. We may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire in the future. The integration of a business could be complex and time consuming and place a significant strain on management and our information systems, and this strain could disrupt our businesses. Furthermore, if our combined businesses continue to grow rapidly, we may be required to replace our current information and accounting systems with systems designed for companies that are larger than ours. We may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in integrating common accounting, information and communication systems, operating procedures, internal controls and human resources practices, including incompatibility of business cultures and the loss of key employees and customers. These difficulties may reduce our ability to gain customers or retain existing customers, and may increase operating expenses, resulting in reduced revenues and income and a failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. 17 Table of Contents We have made numerous acquisitions during the past five years. As a result of these transactions, our past performance is not indicative of future performance, and investors should not base their expectations as to our future performance on our historical results. Failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and/or internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our operations. As part of our growth strategy, we may make additional strategic acquisitions of privately held businesses. It is likely that our future acquired businesses will not have been required to maintain such disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls prior to their acquisition. Likewise, upon the completion of any future acquisition, we will be required to integrate the acquired business into our consolidated company’s system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, but we cannot assure you as to how long the integration process may take for any business that we may acquire. Furthermore, during the integration process, we may not be able to fully implement our consolidated disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. Likewise, during the course of our integration of any acquired business, we may identify needed improvements to our or such acquired business’ internal controls and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls in order to make such improvements. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and could require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective disclosure controls and procedures and/or effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Also, our independent registered public accounting firm may be unable to express an opinion on our management’s evaluation of, or on the effectiveness of, our internal controls. If it is determined that our disclosure controls and procedures and/or our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective and/or we fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on a timely basis, we may not be able to provide reliable financial and other reports or prevent fraud, which, in turn: • could harm our business and operating results, • cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, • have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock or • adversely affect our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC. Any failure to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC may give rise to a default under the indentures governing our outstanding 9.0% senior notes due 2014, which we refer to as our 9.0% senior notes, our outstanding 8.5% senior notes due 2017, which we refer to as our 8.5% senior notes and any other debt securities we may offer and, ultimately, an acceleration of amounts due thereunder. In addition, a default under the indentures generally will also give rise to a default under our credit agreement and could cause the acceleration of amounts due under the credit agreement. If an acceleration of our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes or our other debt were to occur, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay such obligations. We do business in international jurisdictions whose political and regulatory environments and compliance regimes differ from those in the U.S: A significant amount of our revenue is attributable to operations in foreign countries. These activities accounted for approximately 45.9% of our consolidated revenue in the year ended December 31, 2008. Risks associated with our operations in foreign areas include, but are not limited to: • political instability, terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances; • changes in laws or policies regarding the award of contracts; 18 Table of Contents • the inability to collect or repatriate currency, income, capital or assets; • expropriation of assets; • nationalization of components of the energy industry in the geographic areas where we operate; • foreign currency fluctuations and devaluation; and • new economic and tax policies. Part of our strategy is to prudently and opportunistically acquire businesses and assets that complement our existing products and services, and to expand our geographic footprint. If we make acquisitions in other countries, we may increase our exposure to the risks discussed above. We attempt to limit the risks of currency fluctuation and restrictions on currency repatriation where possible by obtaining contracts providing for payment of a percentage of the contract indexed to the U.S. dollar exchange rate. To the extent possible, we seek to limit our exposure to local currencies by matching the acceptance of local currencies to our local expense requirements in those currencies. Although we have done this in the past, we may not be able to take these actions in the future, thereby exposing us to foreign currency fluctuations that could cause our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows to deteriorate materially. Additionally, in some jurisdictions we are subject to foreign governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of contracts to local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These regulations may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our international business operations also include projects in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist and where our competitors who are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, can gain competitive advantages over us by securing business awards, licenses or other preferential treatment in those jurisdictions using methods that U.S. law and regulations prohibit us from using. For example, our non-U.S. competitors are not subject to the anti-bribery restrictions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which make it illegal to give anything of value to foreign officials or employees or agents of nationally owned oil companies in order to obtain or retain any business or other advantage. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence. Violations of these laws could result in monetary and criminal penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. Devaluation of the Argentine Peso, the Mexican Peso or the Brazilian Real could adversely affect our results of operations. These currencies have been subject to significant devaluation in the past and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. Given the economic and political uncertainties which have historically existed in Argentina, it is impossible to predict whether, and to what extent, the value of the Argentine Peso may depreciate or appreciate against the U.S. dollar. We cannot predict how these uncertainties will affect our financial results, but there is a risk that our financial performance could be adversely affected. Moreover, we cannot predict whether the Argentine government will further modify its monetary policy and, if so, what effect any of these changes could have on the value of the Argentine Peso. Such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Argentina continues to face considerable political and economic uncertainty. Although general economic conditions have shown improvement and political protests and social disturbances have diminished considerably since the economic crisis of 2001 and 2002, the rapid and radical nature of the changes in the Argentine social, political, economic and legal environment over the past several 19 Table of Contents years and the absence of a clear political consensus in favor of any particular set of economic policies have given rise to significant uncertainties about the country’s economic and political future. It is currently unclear whether the economic and political instability experienced over the past several years will continue and it is possible that, despite recent economic growth, Argentina may return to a deeper recession, higher inflation and unemployment and greater social unrest. If instability persists, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In the event of further social or political crisis, companies in Argentina may also face the risk of further civil and social unrest, strikes, expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts and changes in taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims. In addition, investments in Argentine companies may be further affected by changes in laws and policies of the U.S. affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment. An increase in inflation in Argentina could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Historically, the devaluation of the Argentine Peso has created pressures on the domestic price system that generated high rates of inflation in 2002 before substantially stabilizing in 2003 and remaining stable in 2004. In 2005, however, inflation rates began to increase. In addition, in response to the economic crisis in 2002, the federal government granted the Central Bank greater control over monetary policy than was available to it under the previous monetary regime, known as the “Convertibility” regime, including the ability to print currency, to make advances to the federal government to cover its anticipated budget deficit and to provide financial assistance to financial institutions with liquidity problems. We cannot assure you that inflation rates will remain stable in the future. Significant inflation in Argentina could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of key executives would adversely affect our ability to effectively finance and manage our business, acquire new businesses, and obtain and retain customers. We are dependent upon the efforts and skills of our executives to finance and manage our business, identify and consummate additional acquisitions and obtain and retain customers. These executives include our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Munawar H. Hidayatallah. In addition, our development and expansion will require additional experienced management and operations personnel. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify and retain these employees. Also, the loss of the services of one or more of our key executives could increase our exposure to the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our personnel. We are subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those that may impose significant liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the energy industry in general and the environment in particular. For example, many aspects of our Drilling and Completion operations are subject to laws and regulations that may relate directly or indirectly to the contract drilling and well servicing industries, including those requiring us to control the discharge of oil and other contaminants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. The countries where our Drilling and Completion business operates have environmental laws and regulations covering the discharge of oil and other contaminants and protection of the environment in connection with operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and even criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit our operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may in certain circumstances impose strict liability, rendering us liable for environmental and natural resource damages without regard to negligence or fault on our part. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or 20 Table of Contents development drilling for oil and gas could materially limit future contract drilling opportunities or materially increase our costs or both. Environmental liabilities relating to discontinued operations could result in substantial losses. Since our reorganization under the U.S. federal bankruptcy laws in 1988, a number of parties, including the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, have asserted that we are responsible for the cleanup of hazardous waste sites with respect to our pre-bankruptcy activities. We believe that such claims are barred by applicable bankruptcy law, and we have not experienced any material expense in relation to any such claims. However, if we do not prevail with respect to these claims in the future, or if additional environmental claims are asserted against us relating to our current or future activities in the oil and natural gas industry, we could become subject to material environmental liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Products liability claims relating to discontinued operations could result in substantial losses. Since our reorganization under the U.S. federal bankruptcy laws in 1988, we have been regularly named in products liability lawsuits primarily resulting from the manufacture of products containing asbestos. In connection with our bankruptcy, a special products liability trust was established and funded to address products liability claims. We believe that claims against us are barred by applicable bankruptcy law, and that the products liability trust will continue to be responsible for products liability claims. Since 1988, no court has ruled that we are responsible for products liability claims. However, if we are held responsible for product liability claims, we could suffer substantial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have not manufactured products containing asbestos since our reorganization in 1988. We may be subject to claims for personal injury and property damage, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our products and services are used for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas. These operations are subject to inherent hazards that can cause personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment, the environment and marine life, and suspension of operations. Litigation arising from an accident at a location where our products or services are used or provided may cause us to be named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potentially large claims. We maintain customary insurance to protect our business against these potential losses. Our insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. However, we could become subject to material uninsured liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our Drilling and Completion operations are subject to hazards that are customary for oil and natural gas drilling operations, including blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of well control, cratering, oil and gas well fires and explosions, natural disasters, pollution and mechanical failure. Any of these risks could result in damage to or destruction of drilling equipment, personal injury and property damage, suspension of operations or environmental damage. Generally, drilling contracts provide for the division of responsibilities between a drilling company and its customer, and we generally obtain indemnification from customers by contract for some of these risks. However, there may be limitations on the enforceability of indemnification provisions that allow a contractor to be indemnified for damages resulting from the contractor’s fault. To the extent that we are unable to transfer such risks to customers by contract or indemnification agreements, we generally seek protection through insurance. However, we have a significant amount of self-insured retention or deductible for certain losses relating to workers’ compensation, employers’ liability, general liability and property damage. There is no assurance that such insurance or indemnification agreements will adequately protect us against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards and risks described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or for which we are not indemnified against, or the failure of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, there can be no assurance that insurance will continue to be available to cover any or all of these 21 Table of Contents risks, or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs will not rise significantly in the future, so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive. Risks Associated With an Investment in Our Common Stock Our common stock price has been volatile, which could adversely affect our business and cause our stockholders to suffer significant losses The volatility of our stock price depends upon many factors including: • decreases in prices for oil and natural gas resulting in decreased demand for our services; • variations in our operating results and failure to meet expectations of investors and analysts; • increases in interest rates; • illiquidity of the market for our common stock; • developments specifically affecting the economies in Latin America; • sales of common stock by existing stockholders; • our substantial indebtedness; and • other developments affecting us or the financial markets. A reduced stock price will result in a loss to investors and will adversely affect our ability to issue stock to fund our activities. Substantial sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market. Such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have 35,674,742 shares outstanding as of February 23, 2009. At December 31, 2008, we had reserved an additional 1,661,187 shares of common stock for issuance under our equity compensation plans, of which 901,732 shares were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options with a weighted average exercise price of $10.95 per share and 481,666 shares were issuable under restricted stock award grants subject to performance based vesting. In addition, we have reserved 4,000 shares of common stock for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options (with an exercise price of $13.75 per share) granted to board members in 1999 and 2000. In connection with our acquisition of DLS, we entered into an investors rights agreement with the seller parties to the DLS stock purchase agreement, who collectively hold 4,867,000 shares of our common stock as of February 23, 2009. Under that agreement, the DLS sellers are entitled to certain rights with respect to the registration of the sale of such shares under the Securities Act. By exercising their registration rights and causing a large number of shares to be sold in the public market, these holders could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We cannot predict whether future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for sale, will adversely affect the market price for our common stock or our ability to raise capital by offering equity securities. In connection with our acquisitions of DLS, the DLS sellers have the right to designate two nominees for election to our board of directors. The interests of the DLS sellers may be different from yours. The DLS sellers collectively hold 4,867,000 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 13.6% of our issued and outstanding shares as of February 23, 2009. Under the investors rights agreement that we entered into in connection with the DLS acquisition, the DLS sellers have the right to designate two nominees for election to our board of directors. As a result, the DLS sellers have a greater ability to determine the composition of our 22 Table of Contents board of directors and to control our future operations and strategy as compared to the voting power and control that could be exercised by a stockholder owning the same number of shares and not benefiting from board designation rights. Conflicts of interest between the DLS sellers, on the one hand, and other holders of our securities, on the other hand, may arise with respect to sales of shares of capital stock owned by the DLS sellers or other matters. In addition, the interests of the DLS sellers regarding any proposed merger or sale may differ from the interests of other holders of our securities. The board designation rights described above could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the market price of our securities and/or our ability to meet our obligations thereunder. Existing stockholders’ interest in us may be diluted by additional issuances of equity securities. We expect to issue additional equity securities to fund the acquisition of additional businesses and pursuant to employee benefit plans. We may also issue additional equity securities for other purposes. These securities may have the same rights as our common stock or, alternatively, may have dividend, liquidation, or other preferences to our common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities will dilute the holdings of existing stockholders and may reduce the share price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock, and investors will be able to receive cash in respect of the shares of common stock only upon the sale of the shares. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock within the last ten years, and we have no intention in the foreseeable future to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. Furthermore, our credit agreement and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, an investor in our common stock will obtain an economic benefit from the common stock only after an increase in its trading price and only by selling the common stock. Risks Associated With Our Indebtedness We are a holding company, and as a result we are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including with respect to the notes. We are a holding company and do not conduct any business operations of our own. Our principal assets are the equity interests we own in our operating subsidiaries, either directly or indirectly. As a result, we are dependent upon cash dividends, distributions or other transfers we receive from our subsidiaries to repay any debt we may incur, and to meet our other obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make payments to us will depend on their operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate, tax and other laws and regulations and agreements of those subsidiaries, as well as by the terms of our credit agreement and the indentures governing our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes and any other debt securities we may offer. For example, the corporate laws of some jurisdictions prohibit the payment of dividends by any subsidiary unless the subsidiary has a capital surplus or net profits in the current or immediately preceding fiscal year. Payments or distributions from our subsidiaries also could be subject to restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, and monetary transfer restrictions in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. Any right that we have to receive any assets of/or distributions from any subsidiary upon its bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization, or to realize proceeds from the sale of the assets of any subsidiary, will be junior to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. 23 Table of Contents We have a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from making principal and interest payments on the notes and our other debt. At December 31, 2008, we have approximately $593.7 million of consolidated total indebtedness outstanding and approximately $47.7 million of additional secured borrowing capacity available under our credit agreement. Our substantial debt could have important consequences for you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes and any other debt securities we may offer and our other debt; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including declines in oil and natural gas prices and declines in drilling activities; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, mergers and other general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the covenants in the indentures relating to our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes and any other debt securities we may offer or in the instruments governing our other debt. In addition, we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. Each of the indentures governing our 9.0% senior notes and our 8.5% senior notes permits (and we anticipate that the indentures governing any other debt securities we may offer will also permit) us to incur additional debt, and our credit agreement permits additional borrowings. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, these related risks could increase. We may not maintain sufficient revenues to sustain profitability or to meet our capital expenditure requirements and our financial obligations. Also, we may not be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansion and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient for payment of our debt in the future. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure our debt to meet our debt service and other obligations, we cannot assure you that the terms of any such transaction would be satisfactory to us or if or how soon any such transaction could be completed. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to refinance our existing debt, expand our current operations or acquire new businesses, which could result in a failure to grow or result in defaults in our obligations under our credit agreement, our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes or our other debt securities. In order to refinance indebtedness, expand existing operations and acquire additional businesses, we will require substantial amounts of capital. There can be no assurance that financing, whether from equity or debt 24 Table of Contents financings or other sources, will be available or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us. The turmoil in the financial markets in 2008 and its impact on the financial condition of the banking sector and other lenders, has increased the uncertainty that capital will be available to us, or available at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to obtain financing, we will be unable to acquire additional businesses and may be unable to meet our obligations under our credit agreement, our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes or any other debt securities we may offer. The indenture governing our 9.0% senior notes, the indenture governing our 8.5% senior notes and our credit agreement impose restrictions on us that may limit the discretion of management in operating our business and that, in turn, could impair our ability to meet our obligations. The indenture governing our 9.0% senior notes, the indenture governing our 8.5% senior notes and our credit agreement contain various restrictive covenants that limit management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • make certain investments or pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or purchase or redeem or retire capital stock; • sell assets, including capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries; • restrict dividends or other payments by restricted subsidiaries; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • merge or consolidate with another company. Our revolving credit agreement requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. If we fail to comply with the financial ratio covenants, it could limit or eliminate the availability under our revolving credit agreement. Our ability to maintain such financial ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, and we cannot assure you that we will maintain or meet such ratios and tests or that the lenders under the credit agreement will waive any failure to meet such ratios or tests. The decrease in the U.S. rig count experienced late in 2008 and early 2009, the expectation of additional decreases in the U.S. rig count, and the resulting decrease in demand for our services adversely impacts our ability to maintain or meet such financial ratios. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict our ability to expand, to pursue our business strategies and otherwise to conduct our business. A breach of these covenants could result in a default under the indentures governing our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes and any other debt securities we may offer and/or the credit agreement. If there were an event of default under any of the indentures or the credit agreement, the affected creditors could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. Additionally, if we fail to repay indebtedness under our credit agreement when it becomes due, the lenders under the credit agreement could proceed against the assets which we have pledged to them as security. Our assets and cash flow might not be sufficient to repay our outstanding debt in the event of a default. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 Table of Contents 