ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our securities can be materially and adversely affected by many events and conditions, including the following: Risks Associated With Our Industry Global political, economic and market conditions could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by global political, economic and market conditions and the condition of the oil and natural gas industry. Our operating results and the forward-looking information we provide are based on our current assumptions about oil and natural gas supply and demand, oil and natural gas prices, rig count and other market trends. Our assumptions on these matters are in turn based on currently available information, which is subject to change. The oil and natural gas industry is extremely volatile and subject to change based on political and economic factors outside our control. This volatility caused oil and natural gas companies and drilling contractors to change their strategies and expenditure levels late in 2008 and in 2009. We have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in the future, significant fluctuations in operating results based on these changes. The Deepwater Horizon incident in the United States Gulf of Mexico and its consequences, including the potential enactment of further restrictions or regulations on offshore drilling, could have a material adverse effect on our business. On April 20, 2010, a fire and explosion occurred onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig Deepwater Horizon, which was owned by Transocean Ltd. and under contract to a subsidiary of BP plc. The accident resulted in the loss of life and a significant oil spill. In response to this incident, the Minerals Management Service of the United States Department of Interior, or the MMS, issued a notice on May 30, 2010 implementing a six-month moratorium on certain drilling activities in the United States Gulf of Mexico. The notice also stated that the MMS would not consider drilling permits for new wells and related activities for specified water depths during the six-month moratorium period. On October 12, 2010, the moratorium was lifted, and deepwater oil and natural gas drilling in the United States Gulf of Mexico has been allowed to resume, provided that operators certify compliance with all existing rules and requirements, including those that recently went into effect, and demonstrate the availability of adequate blowout containment resources. The first drilling permit was not issued until March 2011. Our business has historically been very dependent on drilling activity in the United States Gulf of Mexico. Although the moratorium on oil and natural gas drilling in the United States Gulf of Mexico has been lifted, new guidelines, regulations and restrictions could increase the costs of exploration and production, reduce the area of operations and result in further permitting delays. These may include new or additional bonding and safety requirements and other requirements regarding certification of equipment. There is no assurance that operations related to drilling offshore in the United States will reach the same levels that existed prior to the moratorium. The delay in resuming these activities or the failure of these activities to reach levels that existed prior to the moratorium has and could continue to adversely impact our operating results. The enactment of stricter restrictions on offshore drilling or further regulation of offshore drilling or contracting services operations could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive, with intense price competition. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Pricing is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. The competitive environment has intensified as mergers among oil and natural gas companies have reduced the number of available customers. Many other oilfield services companies are larger than we are and have resources that are significantly greater than our resources. These competitors are better able to withstand industry downturns, compete on the basis of price and acquire new equipment and technologies, all of which could affect our revenues and profitability. These competitors compete with us both for customers and for acquisitions of other businesses. This competition may cause our business to suffer. We believe that competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future. - 10 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Associated With Our Company Our business depends on spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and this spending and our business may be adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. Demand for our products and services is dependent upon the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development activities of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. The industry’s willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon the availability of attractive drilling prospects, the price of oil and natural gas, and the prevailing view of future product prices. Oil and natural gas prices have been extremely volatile. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will depress levels of exploration, development, and production activity. Such price declines reduce drilling activity and demand for our services, which could lead to lower pricing for our products and services. Accordingly, prolonged periods of lower drilling activity and the reduction in our customers’ expenditures could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Oil and natural gas prices depend on many factors beyond our control, including the following: • economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere; • changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of production of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly called OPEC; • the level of production of non-OPEC countries; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil and natural gas producing activities; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • advances in exploration, development and production technologies; and • the availability of capital for exploration and production companies. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause oil and natural gas producers to make additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if commodity prices remain at historically high levels. Historically, we have been dependent on a few customers operating in a single industry; the loss of one or more customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers are engaged in the oil and natural gas exploration business in the United States, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and elsewhere. Historically, we have been dependent upon a few customers for a significant portion of our revenues. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, one of our customers, PAE represented 31.1%, 35.5% and 28.5% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. PAE also contributes a majority of the revenue derived from our Drilling and Completion operations. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, PAE represented 54.2%, 59.2% and 66.0% of our Drilling and Completion revenues, respectively. The strategic agreement with PAE currently has an expiration date of June 30, 2011. However, PAE may terminate the agreement (i) without cause at any time with 60 days’ notice, or (ii) in the event of a breach of the agreement by us if such breach is not cured within 20 days of notice of the breach. Because a majority of the revenues of our Drilling and Completion operations are currently generated under this agreement, the revenues and earnings of our Drilling and Completion operations will be materially adversely affected if this agreement is terminated unless we are able to enter into a satisfactory substitute arrangement. We cannot assure you that in the event of such a termination we would be able to enter into a substitute arrangement on terms similar to those contained in the current agreement with PAE. In addition, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of our major customers terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts or refuses to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers at comparable rates. This concentration of customers may increase our overall exposure to credit risk. Our customers could similarly be affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our significant customers fails to pay us or ceases to contract with us for our services on terms that are favorable to us or at all. - 11 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate some of our Drilling and Completion contracts during periods of depressed market conditions or if we experience operational difficulties. Substantially all of our Drilling and Completion business’ contracts with major customers are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed charge per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate existing contracts if we experience operational problems. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract for operational difficulties is increased during periods of market weakness. The cancellation of a number of our drilling contracts could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. If we are unable to renew or obtain new and favorable contracts for rigs whose contracts are expiring or are terminated, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. We have a number of contracts that will expire in 2011. Our ability to renew these contracts or obtain new contracts and the terms of any such contracts will depend on market conditions. We may be unable to renew our expiring contracts or obtain new contracts for the rigs under contracts that have expired or been terminated, and the dayrates under any new contracts may be substantially below the existing dayrates, which could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. An oversupply of comparable rigs in the geographic markets in which we compete could depress the utilization rates and dayrates for our rigs and materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Utilization rates, which are the number of days a rig actually works divided by the number of days the rig is available for work, and dayrates, which are the contract prices customers pay for rigs per day, are also affected by the total supply of comparable rigs available for service in the geographic markets in which we compete. Improvements in demand in a geographic market may cause our competitors to respond by moving competing rigs into the market, thus intensifying price competition. Significant new rig construction could also intensify price competition. In the past, there have been prolonged periods of rig oversupply with correspondingly depressed utilization rates and dayrates largely due to earlier, speculative construction of new rigs. Improvements in dayrates and expectations of longer-term, sustained improvements in utilization rates and dayrates for drilling rigs may lead to construction of new rigs. These increases in the supply of rigs could depress the utilization rates and dayrates for our rigs and materially reduce our revenues and profitability. The loss of the services of key executives or our failure to attract and retain skilled workers and key personnel could hurt our operations. We are dependent upon the efforts and skills of our executives to manage our business, identify and consummate additional acquisitions and obtain and retain customers. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our personnel. In addition, companies in our industry, including us, are dependent upon the available labor pool of skilled employees. Our development and expansion will require additional experienced management and operations personnel. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify and retain these employees. We compete with other oilfield services businesses and other employers to attract and retain qualified personnel with the technical skills and experience required to provide our customers with the highest quality service. We are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. A shortage in the labor pool of skilled workers, increases in wage rates or changes in applicable laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain personnel and could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages. There can be no assurance that labor costs will not increase. Any increase in our operating costs could cause our business to suffer. The operations and financial condition of our Drilling and Completion business could be affected by union activity and general labor unrest. Additionally, the labor expenses of our Drilling and Completion business could increase as a result of governmental regulation of payments to employees. In Argentina and Brazil, labor organizations have substantial support and have considerable political influence. The demands of labor organizations in Argentina have increased in recent years as a result of the general labor unrest and dissatisfaction resulting from the disparity between the cost of living and salaries in Argentina as a result of the devaluation of the Argentine Peso. There can be no assurance that our Drilling and Completion business will not face labor disruptions in the future or that any such disruptions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. - 12 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Argentine government has in the past and may in the future promulgate laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to maintain minimum wage levels and provide specified benefits to employees, including significant mandatory severance payments. It is possible the government will adopt measures that will increase salaries or require our Drilling and Completion business to provide additional benefits, which would increase our costs and potentially reduce our profitability, cash flow and/or liquidity. In addition, in many of the countries in which we operate, our workforce has certain compensation and other rights arising from our various collective bargaining agreements and from statutory requirements of those countries relating to involuntary terminations. If we choose to cease operations in one of those countries or if market conditions reduce the demand for our drilling services in such a country, we could incur costs, which may be material, associated with workforce reductions. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our Drilling and Completion business often has to make upgrade and refurbishment expenditures for its rig fleet to comply with our quality management and preventive maintenance system or contractual requirements or when repairs are required in response to an inspection by a governmental authority. We may also make significant expenditures when rigs are moved from one location to another. Additionally, we may make substantial expenditures for the construction of new rigs. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project. Significant cost overruns or delays could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade, refurbishment or construction projects could exceed our planned capital expenditures, impairing our ability to service our debt obligations. Severe weather could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: • curtailment of services; • weather-related damage to facilities and equipment resulting in suspension of operations; • inability to deliver materials to job sites in accordance with contract schedules; and • loss of productivity. For example, oil and natural gas operations of our customers located offshore and onshore in the Gulf of Mexico and in Mexico have from time to time been adversely affected by floods, hurricanes and tropical storms, resulting in reduced demand for our services. In 2008, Hurricanes Gustav and Ike disrupted our operations along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast and the East Texas/West Louisiana corridor. Further, our customers’ operations in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States are also adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions. This limits our access to these job sites and our ability to service wells in these areas. These constraints decrease drilling activity and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. We have recorded substantial goodwill as the result of our acquisitive nature and as such goodwill is subject to periodic reviews of impairment. We perform purchase price allocations to intangible assets when we make a business combination. Business combinations and purchase price allocations have been consummated for acquisitions in all of our reportable segments. The excess of the purchase price after allocation of fair values to tangible assets is allocated to identifiable intangibles and thereafter to goodwill. We conduct periodic reviews of goodwill for impairment in value. Any impairments would result in a non-cash charge against earnings in the period reviewed, which may or may not create a tax benefit, and would have a corresponding decrease in stockholders’ equity. We reviewed goodwill at December 31, 2010 and 2009 and recorded no impairment but based on our review of goodwill at December 31, 2008 we recorded an impairment of $115.8 million, which was all of our goodwill for the Rental Services segment as well as the impairment of goodwill associated with our Tubular Services and Production Services businesses within our Oilfield Services segment. In the event that market conditions deteriorate or we have a prolonged downturn, we may be required to record an additional impairment of goodwill and such impairment could be material. - 13 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and/or internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our operations. As part of our growth strategy, we may make additional strategic acquisitions of privately held businesses. It is likely that our future acquired businesses will not have been required to maintain such disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls prior to their acquisition. Likewise, upon the completion of any future acquisition, we will be required to integrate the acquired business into our consolidated company’s system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, but we cannot assure you as to how long the integration process may take for any business that we may acquire. Furthermore, during the integration process, we may not be able to fully implement our consolidated disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and could require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. If it is determined that our disclosure controls and procedures and/or our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective and/or we fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on a timely basis, we may not be able to provide reliable financial and other reports or prevent fraud, which, in turn: • could harm our business and operating results, • cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, • have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock or • adversely affect our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC. Any failure to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC may give rise to a default under the indentures governing our outstanding 9.0% senior notes due 2014, which we refer to as our 9.0% senior notes, our outstanding 8.5% senior notes due 2017, which we refer to as our 8.5% senior notes and, ultimately, an acceleration of amounts due thereunder. In addition, a default under the indentures generally will also give rise to a default under our credit agreement and could cause the acceleration of amounts due under other credit agreements. If an acceleration of our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes or our other debt were to occur, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay such obligations. We do business in international jurisdictions whose political and regulatory environments and compliance regimes differ from those in the United States. A significant amount of our revenue is attributable to operations in foreign countries. These activities accounted for approximately 59.2% of our consolidated revenue in the year ended December 31, 2010. Risks associated with our operations in foreign areas include, but are not limited to: • political instability, terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances; • changes in laws or policies regarding the award of contracts; • the inability to collect or repatriate currency, income, capital or assets; • expropriation of assets; • nationalization of components of the energy industry in the geographic areas where we operate; • foreign currency fluctuations and devaluation; and • new economic and tax policies. Part of our strategy is to prudently and opportunistically acquire businesses and assets that complement our existing products and services, and to expand our geographic footprint. If we make acquisitions in other countries, we may increase our exposure to the risks discussed above. We attempt to limit the risks of currency fluctuation and restrictions on currency repatriation where possible by obtaining contracts providing for payment of a percentage of the contract indexed to the United States dollar exchange rate. To the extent possible, we seek to limit our exposure to local currencies by matching the acceptance of local currencies to our local expense requirements in those currencies. Although we have done this in the past, we may not be able to take these actions in the future, thereby exposing us to foreign currency fluctuations that could cause our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows to deteriorate materially. Additionally, in some jurisdictions we are subject to foreign governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of contracts to local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These regulations may adversely affect our ability to compete. - 14 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our international business operations also include projects in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist. We are subject to the anti-bribery restrictions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which make it illegal to give anything of value to foreign officials or employees or agents of nationally owned oil companies in order to obtain or retain any business or other advantage. Violations of these laws could result in monetary and criminal penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. Devaluation of the Argentine Peso, the Mexican Peso or the Brazilian Real could adversely affect our results of operations. These currencies have been subject to significant devaluation in the past and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. Given the economic and political uncertainties which have historically existed in Argentina, it is impossible to predict whether, and to what extent, the value of the Argentine Peso may depreciate or appreciate against the United States dollar. We cannot predict how these uncertainties will affect our financial results, but there is a risk that our financial performance could be adversely affected. Moreover, we cannot predict whether the Argentine government will further modify its monetary policy and, if so, what effect any of these changes could have on the value of the Argentine Peso. Such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similar economic and political turmoil in Mexico and Brazil could also expose us to unpredictable currency exchange rates in these countries that may result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Argentina continues to face considerable political and economic uncertainty. Although general economic conditions have shown improvement and political protests and social disturbances have diminished considerably since the economic crisis of 2001 and 2002, the rapid and radical nature of the changes in the Argentine social, political, economic and legal environment over the past several years and the absence of a clear political consensus in favor of any particular set of economic policies have given rise to significant uncertainties about the country’s economic and political future. It is currently unclear whether the economic and political instability experienced over the past several years will continue and it is possible that, despite recent economic growth, Argentina may return to a deeper recession, higher inflation and unemployment and greater social unrest. If instability persists, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In the event of further social or political crisis, companies in Argentina may also face the risk of further civil and social unrest, strikes, expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts and changes in taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims. An increase in inflation in Argentina could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Historically, the devaluation of the Argentine Peso has created pressures on the domestic price system that generated high rates of inflation. We cannot assure you that inflation rates will remain stable in the future. Significant inflation in Argentina could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those that may impose significant liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the energy industry in general and the environment in particular. For example, many aspects of our Drilling and Completion operations are subject to laws and regulations that may relate directly or indirectly to the contract drilling and well servicing industries, including those requiring us to control the discharge of oil and other contaminants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. The countries where our Drilling and Completion business operates have environmental laws and regulations covering the discharge of oil and other contaminants and protection of the environment in connection with operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and even criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit our operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may in certain circumstances impose strict liability, rendering us liable for environmental and natural resource damages without regard to negligence or fault on our part. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or development drilling for oil and gas could materially limit future contract drilling opportunities or materially increase our costs or both. - 15 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business and may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to the release, capture, and use of carbon dioxide that could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. International, national, and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) is taking steps to require monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions and to regulate GHGs as pollutants under the Clean Air Act (“CAA”). The EPA’s “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases” rule established a comprehensive scheme of regulations that require monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions that began in 2010. Furthermore, the EPA recently proposed additional GHG reporting rules specifically for the oil and gas industry. The EPA has also published a final rule, the “Endangerment Finding,” finding that GHGs in the atmosphere endanger public health and welfare, and that emissions of GHGs from mobile sources cause or contribute to the GHG pollution. Following issuance of the Endangerment Finding, the EPA promulgated final motor vehicle GHG emission standards on April 1, 2010. The EPA has asserted that the final motor vehicle GHG emission standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. In addition, climate change legislation is pending in the United States Congress. These developments may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect future results of operations. Additionally, legislation to reduce greenhouse gases may have an adverse effect on our operations, including payment of additional costs due to carbon emissions. Higher carbon emission activities include transportation, including marine vessels, cement production (by third party suppliers), and electricity generation (by third party suppliers) as well as other activities. Finally, our business could be negatively affected by climate change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns, which could result in damages to or loss of our physical assets, impacts to our ability to conduct operations and/or disruption of our customers’ operations. Legislation may be introduced in the United States Congress that would authorize the EPA to regulate hydraulic fracturing. In addition, a number of states are evaluating the adoption of legislation or regulations governing hydraulic fracturing. Such legislation or regulations could reduce demand for pressure pumping services. If federal and/or state legislation or regulations were enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are unable to predict whether the proposed legislation, regulations, or any other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Environmental liabilities relating to discontinued operations could result in substantial losses. Since our reorganization under the United States federal bankruptcy laws in 1988, a number of parties, including the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, have asserted that we are responsible for the cleanup of hazardous waste sites with respect to our pre-bankruptcy activities. We believe that such claims are barred by applicable bankruptcy law, and we have not experienced any material expense in relation to any such claims. However, if we do not prevail with respect to these claims in the future, or if additional environmental claims are asserted against us relating to our current or future activities in the oil and natural gas industry, we could become subject to material environmental liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Products liability claims relating to discontinued operations could result in substantial losses. Since our reorganization under the United States federal bankruptcy laws in 1988, we have been regularly named in products liability lawsuits primarily resulting from the manufacture of products containing asbestos. In connection with our bankruptcy, a special products liability trust was established and funded to address products liability claims. This product liability trust is in the process of being dissolved. We believe that product liability claims relating to our business prior to bankruptcy are barred by applicable bankruptcy law. Since 1988, no court has ruled that we are responsible for products liability claims. However, if we are held responsible for product liability claims, we could suffer substantial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have not manufactured products containing asbestos since our reorganization in 1988. - 16 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be subject to claims for personal injury and property damage, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We provide services and equipment to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These operations are subject to inherent hazards that can cause personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment, the environment and marine life, and suspension of operations. Substantially all of our Drilling and Completion operations are subject to hazards that are customary for oil and natural gas drilling operations, including blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of well control, cratering, oil and gas well fires and explosions, natural disasters, pollution and mechanical failure. Any of these risks could result in damage to or destruction of drilling equipment, personal injury and property damage, suspension of operations or environmental damage. We operate with our customers through Master Service Agreements, or MSAs. We endeavor to allocate potential liabilities and risks between the parties in the MSAs. Generally, our MSAs contain indemnification to us for liability for pollution or environmental claims arising from subsurface conditions or resulting from the drilling activities of our customers or their operators. We may have liability in such cases if we are grossly negligent or commit willful acts. In addition, any liability may be capped for either party to an MSA. Generally, our customers also agree to indemnify us against claims arising from their employees’ personal injury or death, unless resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct. Similarly, we agree to indemnify our customers for liabilities arising from personal injury or death of any of our employees, unless resulting from gross negligence or willful misconduct of the customer. In addition, our customers agree to indemnify us for loss or destruction of customer-owned property or equipment, and in turn, we agree to indemnify our customers for loss or destruction of property or equipment we own. However, for equipment we rent to our customers, our contracts generally provide that the customer is responsible for the replacement of any damaged or lost equipment in their care. Losses due to catastrophic events, such as blowouts, are generally the responsibility of the customer. However, despite this general allocation of risk, we might not succeed in enforcing such contractual allocation or we might incur an unforeseen liability falling outside the scope of such allocation. Litigation arising from an accident at a location where our products or services are used or provided may cause us to be named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potentially large claims. We maintain customary insurance to protect our business against these potential losses. Our general liability policy would cover claims where we agreed to indemnify the customer, subject to any typical exclusions that may exist under the policy. However, we could become subject to material uninsured liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The limits and deductibles for our general liability policy are as follows: • General Aggregate $2,000,000; • Products/Completed Operations Aggregate $2,000,000; • Occurrence Limit $1,000,000; • Personal/Advertising Injury Limit $1,000,000; • Deductible (Bodily Injury & Property Damage Combined) Per Claim $100,000. In addition, our general liability policy is scheduled under a $30.0 million umbrella/excess liability policy (subject to the policy’s terms, conditions and exclusions). We also have workers compensation insurance coverage up to $1,000,000. We have a contractor’s pollution liability policy of $10.0 million which has a $200,000 deductible, and all environmental claims would be subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions of that policy. Our umbrella policy does not apply to the contractor’s pollution liability policy. There is no assurance that such insurance or indemnification agreements will adequately protect us against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards and risks described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or for which we are not indemnified against, or the failure of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, there can be no assurance that insurance will continue to be available to cover any or all of these risks, or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs will not rise significantly in the future so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive. - 17 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to the Merger We have and will continue to incur transaction costs in connection with the merger. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs in connection with the merger, including the fees of our respective professional advisors. We will also incur integration and restructuring costs following the completion of the merger as our operations are integrated with Seawell’s operations. The efficiencies anticipated to arise from the merger may not be achieved in the near term or at all, and, if achieved, may not be sufficient to offset the costs associated with the merger. Unanticipated costs, or the failure to achieve expected efficiencies, may have an adverse impact on the results of operations of the combined company following the completion of the merger. Following the merger, the combined company may be unable to successfully integrate our business into Archer’s business and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. The merger involves the combination of two companies that operated as independent public companies. The combined company will be required to devote management attention and resources to integrating its business practices and operations. Potential difficulties that the combined company may encounter in the integration process include the following: • the inability to successfully integrate our business into Seawell’s business in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the merger, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the merger not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; • integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and customer service; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the merger; and • performance shortfalls at one or both of the two companies as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by completing the merger and integrating the companies’ operations. It is possible that the integration process could result in the diversion of management’s attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce the earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. Following the merger, the carrying value of our assets may differ significantly from the historical cost. As part of the acquisition process, we are currently undergoing a purchase price valuation exercise to review the fair values of our assets. As part of this review, the book values of assets may differ materially once the exercise is concluded and the new values pushed down into our balance sheet. The accounting rules related to the valuation of assets acquired in a business combination are different from the reporting of historical results. We expect this exercise to be completed by June 30, 2011. The failure of the lenders under Seawell’s undrawn credit facilities to perform could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. We are exposed to systemic risk of the financial markets and institutions and the risk of non-performance of the individual lenders under Seawell’s undrawn credit facilities. Maintaining sufficient liquidity in our business for maintenance and operating expenditures, capital expenditures and collateral is crucial in order to mitigate the risk of future financial distress to us. Accordingly, Seawell maintains a revolving credit facility to manage its expected liquidity needs and contingencies. The failure of the lenders to perform under the Seawell revolving credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In the event that financial institutions are unwilling or unable to renew Seawell’s existing revolving credit facility or enter into new revolving credit facilities, our ability to hedge economically our assets could be impaired. - 18 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Associated With Our Indebtedness We are an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Seawell. Seawell can exercise substantial control over our business and operations and could do so in a manner that is adverse to our interests. We are managed by officers and employees of Seawell. Our management will make determinations with respect to the following: • decisions on our financings and our capital raising activities; • mergers or other business combinations; and • our acquisition or disposition of assets. We are a wholly owned subsidiary. As a result, we are dependent upon cash dividends, distributions or other transfers we receive from our parent to repay any debt we may incur, and to meet our other obligations. The ability of our parent to make payments to us will depend on their operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate, tax and other laws and regulations and agreements. In order to refinance indebtedness, expand existing operations and acquire additional businesses, we will require substantial amounts of capital. There can be no assurance that financing, whether from our parent or debt financings or other sources, will be available or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us. The turmoil in the financial markets since mid-2008 and its impact on the financial condition of the banking sector and other lenders, has significantly reduced access to the capital markets. It is uncertain to what extent capital will be available to us in the future and at what cost. If we are unable to obtain financing, we will be unable to acquire additional businesses and may be unable to meet our obligations under our 9.0% senior notes, our 8.5% senior notes or any other debt securities we may offer. The indenture governing our 9.0% senior notes, the indenture governing our 8.5% senior notes impose restrictions on us that may limit the discretion of management in operating our business and that, in turn, could impair our ability to meet our obligations. The indenture governing our 9.0% senior notes, the indenture governing our 8.5% senior notes contain various restrictive covenants that limit management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • make certain investments or pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or purchase or redeem or retire capital stock; • sell assets, including capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries; • restrict dividends or other payments by restricted subsidiaries; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • merge or consolidate with another company. If there were an event of default under any of the indentures, the affected creditors could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 19 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 