Item 1A. Risk Factors GATX is subject to a number of risks which investors should consider before investing in GATX’s securities. These risks include the factors described below as well as other information contained in this filing and GATX’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The risk factors described below are not the only risks facing the Company, and additional risks not presently known to GATX or risks currently considered immaterial also may adversely affect GATX. 9 Table of Contents Competition could result in decreased profitability. GATX operates in a highly competitive business environment. In many cases, competitors are larger entities that have greater financial resources, higher credit ratings and a lower cost of capital than GATX. Additionally, certain of GATX’s competitors have received loans from the U.S. government under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) and other similar programs, and it is possible that competitors may deploy a portion of any TARP funds received to segments of their operations that compete with GATX. These factors may enable competitors to offer leases and loans to customers at lower rates than GATX is able to provide, thus impacting GATX’s asset utilization or GATX’s ability to lease assets on a profitable basis. Weak economic conditions, financial market volatility and other factors may decrease customer demand for GATX’s assets and services and negatively impact GATX’s business and results of operations. GATX relies upon continued demand from its customers to lease its railcars and marine and industrial equipment assets. Demand for these assets is dependent upon the markets for the products and services offered by the Company’s customers and the strength and growth of their businesses. A number of GATX’s customers operate in cyclical markets, such as the steel, chemical and construction industries, which are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States and abroad and may experience significant changes in demand over time. As a result of the recessionary economic conditions currently affecting the economy of the United States and other parts of the world, GATX’s customers may experience declines in their operating and financial performance, which may, in turn, reduce their demand for the assets and services GATX provides. Additionally, disruptions in the global capital markets have led to significantly decreased availability of credit and an increase in borrowing costs. If GATX’s customers are unable to obtain credit to finance their operations, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, amounts owed to GATX, which could have a material adverse effect on GATX’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Continued weakness in certain sectors of the economy also may make it more difficult for GATX to lease certain types of railcars that are returned either at the end of a lease term or as a result of a customer bankruptcy or default. In many cases, demand for GATX’s assets is also dependent on customers’ desire to lease, rather than purchase assets. There are a number of items that factor into the customer’s decision to lease or purchase assets, such as tax considerations, interest rates, balance sheet considerations and operational flexibility. GATX has no control over these external considerations, and changes in these factors could negatively impact demand for its assets held for lease. Additional factors influencing customer demand for GATX’s assets include changes in production volumes, potential changes in supply chains, choices regarding type of transportation asset, availability of substitutes and other operational needs. Demand for the shipping services provided by the Company’s ASC segment is also dependent upon the factors discussed above. A significant decline in customer demand for the assets and services provided by GATX could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. GATX’s allowance for possible losses may prove inadequate. GATX’s allowance for possible losses on reservable assets may be not be adequate over time to cover credit losses in its portfolio if unexpected adverse changes in the economy differ from the expectations of management or if discrete events adversely affect specific customers, industries or markets. If the credit quality of GATX’s customer base materially deteriorates, the Company’s allowance may be insufficient to cover credit losses and GATX’s financial position or results of operations could be negatively impacted. Continued deterioration in the global capital markets, weakening of macroeconomic conditions, and changes in credit ratings may limit the ability of GATX to secure financing and may increase its borrowing costs. GATX relies, in part, upon banks and capital markets to fund its operations and contractual commitments, including availability under existing bank credit facilities and the issuance of long-term debt instruments and commercial paper from time to time. Since July 2007, these markets have exhibited unprecedented volatility. As a 10 Table of Contents result, interest rates on corporate debt have increased, and access to capital, particularly in the unsecured debt markets, has become significantly more constrained. In addition to the capital markets environment, a number of other factors could cause GATX to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for both secured and unsecured debt. These factors include GATX’s financial performance and its credit ratings and rating outlook as determined primarily by rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) and Moody’s Investor Service (“Moody’s”). If GATX is unable to secure financing on acceptable terms, the Company’s other sources of funds, including available cash, bank facilities, cash flow from operations and portfolio proceeds, may not be adequate to fund its operations and contractual commitments. Changes in laws, rules or regulations could negatively affect GATX’s business and profitability. GATX’s rail and marine operations are subject to various laws, rules and regulations administered by a number of federal and state agencies, including the U.S. Department of Transportation. GATX’s railcar operations are also affected by regulations adopted by the Association of American Railroads. These agencies establish rules and regulations for the railcar industry, including mechanical, maintenance and safety standards. State agencies regulate some aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety matters not otherwise preempted by federal law. GATX’s operations are also subject to the jurisdiction of regulatory agencies of foreign countries. Future changes in these laws, rules and regulations could reduce the economic value of GATX’s assets or require significant expenditures to comply thereby increasing GATX’s operating expenses. Certain changes to laws, rules and regulations could mandate the obsolescence of various assets or impose compliance costs that are so significant as to render such assets economically obsolete. GATX’s assets may become obsolete. In addition to changes in laws, rules and regulations that may make assets obsolete, GATX may be adversely impacted by changes in the preferred method used by the Company’s customers to ship their products or by a shift by customers toward purchasing assets rather than leasing them from GATX. The industries in which GATX’s customers operate are driven by dynamic market forces and trends, which are in turn influenced by economic and political factors in the United States and abroad. Demand for GATX’s rail and marine assets may be significantly affected by changes to the markets in which the Company’s customers operate. A significant reduction in customer demand or change in the preferred method of transportation used by customers to ship their products could result in the economic obsolescence of GATX assets leased by those customers. High energy prices could have a negative effect on the demand for GATX’s products and services. Energy prices, including the price of natural gas and oil, are significant cost drivers for many of GATX’s customers, either directly in the form of raw material costs in industries such as the chemical and steel industries, or indirectly in the form of increased transportation costs. Sustained high energy prices could negatively impact these industries resulting in a corresponding adverse effect on customer demand for GATX’s assets, as well as related services. Events or conditions negatively affecting certain assets, customers or geographic regions in which GATX has a large investment could have a negative impact on its results of operations. GATX’s revenues are generally derived from a number of different asset types, customers, industries and geographic locations. However, from time to time, GATX could have a large investment in a particular asset type, a large revenue stream associated with a particular customer or industry, or a large number of customers located in a particular geographic region. Decreased demand from a discrete event impacting a particular asset type, discrete events with a specific customer or industry, or adverse regional economic conditions, particularly for those assets, customers or regions in which GATX has a concentrated exposure, could have a negative impact on GATX’s results of operations. 11 Table of Contents GATX is subject to extensive environmental regulations and the costs of remediation may be material. GATX’s operations are subject to extensive federal, foreign, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials and remediation of contaminated sites. In addition, some of GATX’s properties, including those previously owned or leased, have been used for industrial purposes whose activities may have resulted in discharges onto the property. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or operated properties as well as properties currently owned and used by the Company. Environmental liabilities are routinely assessed, including obligations and commitments for remediation of contaminated sites and assessments of ranges and probabilities of recoveries from other responsible parties. Due to the regulatory complexities and risk of unidentified contaminants on its properties, the potential exists for environmental and remediation costs to be materially different from the costs GATX has estimated. GATX has been, and may in the future be, involved in various types of litigation. The nature of GATX’s businesses and assets expose the Company to the potential for claims and litigation related to, among other things, personal injury and property damage, environmental claims and other matters. Certain GATX railcars may be used by customers to transport hazardous materials, and a rupture of a railcar carrying such materials in an accident could lead to litigation and subject GATX to the potential for significant liability. A substantial adverse judgment against GATX could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. GATX may not be able to procure insurance on a cost-effective basis. GATX manages its exposure to risk, in part, by insuring its assets and their associated risks. There is no guarantee that such insurance will be consistently available on a cost-effective basis in the future. If the cost of insurance coverage becomes prohibitively expensive, GATX could be forced to reduce the amount of coverage and increase the amount of its self-insured risk retention. The fair market value of GATX’s long-lived assets may differ from the value of those assets reflected in its financial statements. GATX’s assets consist primarily of long-lived assets such as railcars, marine vessels and industrial equipment. The carrying value of these assets in the financial statements may at times differ from their fair market value. These valuation differences may be positive or negative and may be material based on market conditions and demand for certain assets. GATX may incur future asset impairment charges. GATX regularly reviews long-lived assets and joint venture investments for impairment, including when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset or investment may not be recoverable. GATX may be required to recognize asset impairment charges in the future as a result of a weak economic environment, challenging market conditions, events related to particular customers or asset types, or as a result of asset or portfolio sale decisions by management or other factors that affect GATX’s estimates of expected cash flows to be generated from its long-lived assets or joint venture investments. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates could have a negative impact on GATX’s results of operations. GATX’s results are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of certain subsidiaries are translated from their local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, the operating results of foreign subsidiaries, when translated, may differ materially from period to period. GATX is also subject to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, which could vary based on fluctuations in exchange rates and the timing of the transactions and their settlement. In addition, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can have an effect on the demand and relative price for services provided by GATX domestically and internationally, and could have a negative impact on GATX’s results of operations. GATX is also subject to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates. The Company may seek to limit foreign exchange rate and interest rate risk through the use of 12 Table of Contents currency or interest rate hedges, but these measures may not be effective. A material and unexpected change in interest rates or foreign exchange rates could negatively affect GATX’s financial performance. GATX may be unable to maintain assets on lease or charter at satisfactory rates. GATX’s profitability is largely dependent on its ability to maintain assets on lease at satisfactory rates and to re-lease or sell assets upon lease expiration. A number of factors can adversely affect asset utilization rates and lease rates, including, but not limited to, an economic downturn causing reduced demand or oversupply in the markets in which GATX operates, changes in customer behavior, or other changes in supply or demand for such assets. A decline in customer demand for GATX’s assets could cause customers to demand shorter lease terms and lower lease rates and could result in a decrease in the utilization rate for GATX’s assets and reduced revenues. GATX is subject to the inherent risks of its joint venture investments. GATX’s investments include non-controlling interests in a number of joint ventures managed and operated by third parties. These entities are subject to many of the same risk factors discussed in this Risk Factors section. GATX is indirectly exposed to these risks through its ownership interest in these entities, and adverse developments in the business or financial results of those entities could have a negative impact on GATX’s results of operations. Additionally, in those instances where a joint venture is managed and operated by GATX’s joint venture partner or another third party, GATX may not have control over all operational decisions which may result in actions taken at the joint venture level that could have an adverse economic impact on GATX. GATX cannot predict with certainty the impact that inflation or deflation will have on its financial results. Effects of inflation are unpredictable as to timing and duration and depend on market conditions and economic factors. Inflation in lease rates as well as inflation in residual values for rail, marine and other equipment has historically benefited GATX’s financial results. However, these benefits may be offset, in whole or in part, by increases in the costs for goods and services purchased by GATX, including salaries and wages, health care costs, supplies, utilities, and maintenance and repair services and materials. Significant increases in GATX’s cost of goods and services could adversely impact the company’s financial performance. A period of prolonged deflation would have a negative impact on GATX from several perspectives, including lease rate pricing, residual values and asset remarketing opportunities. These negative impacts of deflation may be affected, in whole or in part, by decreases in the cost to GATX of goods and services, including those discussed herein. Unfavorable conditions on the Great Lakes could disrupt normal business operations, which could result in increased costs and decreases in revenues. The success of GATX’s ASC business segment is dependent upon its ability to operate efficiently on the Great Lakes. Severe weather conditions and unanticipated ice formation could cause significant business interruptions. Additionally, low water levels may restrict the volume that may be transported in ASC’s vessels on a per trip basis. As a result, these conditions could negatively impact results of operations due to increased operating costs or decreased revenues. Many of GATX’s employees are represented by unions, and the failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements may result in strikes, work stoppages or substantially higher labor costs. A significant portion of GATX’s employees are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining agreements that cover a range of workplace matters, including wages, health and welfare benefits, work rules and other issues. Historically, the Company and its unions have been successful in negotiating acceptable agreements without the occurrence of any extended work stoppages. However, if the Company is unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements, it could result in strikes by the affected workers, business disruptions and increased operating costs due to higher wages or benefits paid to union workers, any of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 13 Table of Contents Changes to assumptions used to calculate post-retirement costs, increases in funding requirements and investment losses in pension funds could adversely affect GATX’s results of operations. GATX’s pension and other post-retirement costs are dependent on various assumptions used to calculate such amounts, including discount rates, long-term return on plan assets, salary increases, health care cost trend rates and other factors. Changes to any of these assumptions could adversely affect GATX’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, GATX could be required to increase contributions to its pension plans as a result of changes to laws, regulations or rules that increase funding requirements or to compensate for investment losses in pension plan assets. If GATX were forced to increase contributions to its pension plans, the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be negatively affected. GATX’s effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in the U.S. and foreign countries. GATX is subject to taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. As a result, GATX’s effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in the United States and foreign countries with differing statutory tax rates, legislative changes impacting statutory tax rates, including the impact on recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or by material audit assessments. United States and world economic and political conditions, including acts or threats of terrorism or war, could adversely affect GATX. National and international political developments, instability and uncertainties, including political unrest and threats of terrorist attacks, could result in global economic weakness in general and in the United States in particular, and could have an adverse impact on GATX. The effects may include: legislation or regulatory action directed toward improving the security of railcars and marine vessels against acts of terrorism, which could affect the construction or operation of railcars and marine vessels, a decrease in demand for rail and marine services, lower utilization of new and existing rail and marine equipment, lower rail lease and marine charter rates; impairments of rail and marine assets or capital market disruption, which may raise GATX’s financing costs or limit its access to capital, and liability or losses resulting from acts of terrorism involving GATX’s assets. Depending upon the severity, scope and duration of these effects, the impact on GATX’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be material. GATX’s internal control over financial accounting and reporting may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements. If GATX fails to maintain the adequacy of internal control over financial accounting, the Company may not be able to ensure that GATX can conclude on an ongoing basis that it has effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations. Although GATX’s management has concluded that adequate internal control procedures are in place, no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance that the financial statements are accurate and free of error. As a result, the risk exists that GATX’s internal control may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 