Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should consider the risk factors described below as well as other information contained in this filing or our other filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission before investing in our securities. If any of the events described in the risk factors below occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. Recent derailments of trains carrying crude oil have resulted in product releases, fires and serious damage. Regulations applicable to tank cars carrying crude oil, ethanol, and other flammable liquids are currently under review and any new regulations could negatively impact our tank car fleet in flammable liquids service. Recent derailments involving trains carrying crude oil and ethanol have led to increased regulatory scrutiny of railroad operations, shippers’ classification of products, and the tank cars carrying these commodities. The nature and scope of regulatory action is currently unknown, and we cannot predict how any new rules or regulations might impact our fleet of tank cars. We have approximately 4,000 tank cars currently in crude and ethanol service and another 8,000 cars in flammable liquids service. New regulations could have an adverse impact on our business by requiring us to refurbish or substantially modify tank cars that are engaged in crude, ethanol and other flammable liquid service, and certain cars may need to be retired prior to the end of their useful lives. In addition, if the regulatory requirements for shipping crude, ethanol and other flammable commodities in tank cars become too onerous, our customers may shift some of the commodities that currently travel by rail to other modes of transportation, resulting in decreased demand for these tank cars. Competition could result in decreased profitability.We operate in a highly competitive business environment. In many cases, our competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources, higher credit ratings, and a lower cost of capital. These factors may enable our competitors to offer leases and loans to customers at lower rates than we can provide, thus negatively impacting our profitability, asset utilization and investment volume. Weak economic conditions, financial market volatility, and other factors may decrease customer demand for our assets and services and negatively impact our business and results of operations. We rely on continued demand from our customers to lease our railcars, locomotives, marine assets, and other equipment. Demand for these assets depends on the markets for our customers’ products and services and the strength and growth of their businesses. Some of our customers operate in cyclical markets, such as the steel, chemical, and construction industries, which are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns and may experience significant changes in demand over time. Weakness in certain sectors of the economy in the United States and other parts of the world may make it more difficult for us to lease certain types of railcars that are either returned at the end of a lease term or returned as a result of a customer bankruptcy or default. In many cases, demand for our assets also depends on our customers’ desire to lease, rather than buy, the assets. Tax and accounting considerations, interest rates, and operational flexibility, among other factors, may influence a customer’s decision to lease or buy assets. We have no control over these external considerations, and changes in these factors, including potential changes to lease accounting rules, could negatively impact demand for our assets held for lease.Additional factors, such as changes in harvest or production volumes, changes in supply chains, choices in types of transportation assets, availability of substitutes and other operational needs may also influence customer demand for our assets. Demand for our marine assets and shipping services also depends on the factors discussed above. Significant declines in customer demand for our assets and services could adversely affect our financial performance. We may be unable to maintain assets on lease at satisfactory rates.Our profitability depends on our ability to lease assets at satisfactory rates, sell assets, and to re-lease assets upon lease expiration. Circumstances such as economic downturns, changes in customer behavior, excess capacity in particular railcar types or generally in the marketplace, or other changes in supply or demand can adversely affect asset utilization rates and lease rates. Economic uncertainty or a decline in customer demand for our assets could cause customers to request shorter lease terms and lower lease rates, which may result in a decrease in our asset utilization rate and reduced revenues. Alternatively, customers may seek to lock-in relatively low lease rates for longer terms, which may result in an adverse impact on current or future revenues. 14Our rail and marine assets and operations are subject to various laws, rules, and regulations. If these laws rules, and regulations change or we fail to comply with them, it could have a significant negative effect on our business and profitability.Our rail and marine operations are subject to various laws, rules, and regulations administered by authorities in jurisdictions where we do business. In the United States, our railcar fleet and operations are subject to safety, operations, maintenance, and mechanical standards, rules, and regulations enforced by various federal and state agencies and industry organizations, including the US Department of Transportation, the Federal Railroad Administration, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, and the Association of American Railroads. State agencies regulate some health and safety matters related to rail operations not otherwise preempted by federal law. Our business and railcar fleet may be adversely impacted by new rules or regulations, or changes to existing rules or regulations, which could require additional maintenance or substantial modification or refurbishment of our railcars, or could make certain types of railcars inoperable or obsolete or require them to be phased out prior to the end of their useful lives. In addition, violations of these rules and regulations can result in substantial fines and penalties, including potential limitations on operations or forfeitures of assets. Similarly, our marine assets and operations are subject to rules and regulations relating to safety, citizenship, emissions, ballast discharges, and other environmental and operational matters enforced by various federal and state agencies, including the Maritime Administration of the US Department of Transportation, the US Coast Guard, and the US Environmental Protection Agency. If we fail to comply with these rules and regulations, we could be prohibited from operating or leasing marine assets in the US market, and under certain circumstances, could incur severe fines and penalties, including potential limitations on operations or forfeitures of assets. In addition, our foreign operations are subject to the jurisdiction of authorities in countries where we do business. If we fail to comply with these laws, rules, and regulations, or if there are future changes to them, the use of our assets could be restricted, or the economic value of our assets may be reduced. These restrictions or reductions could lead to loss of revenue or cause us to incur significant expenses to comply with laws, rules, and regulations, thereby increasing operating expenses. Certain changes to or actions by authorities under existing laws, rules, and regulations, or actions, could result in the obsolescence of various assets or impose compliance costs that are significant enough to render those assets economically obsolete. A significant increase in the number of tank cars requiring compliance-based maintenance could negatively impact operations and substantially increase costs. We perform a variety of government or industry-mandated maintenance programs on our full-service tank cars based on their service time. New government regulations or industry rules are sometimes enacted, which may affect the number and type of procedures we are required to perform. These compliance programs are cyclical in nature, and as a result, we can face significant increases in the volume of tank cars requiring extensive maintenance in any given year. A significant increase in the number of tank cars requiring maintenance may negatively impact our operations and substantially increase maintenance and other related costs. In addition, while we have contracted with third party maintenance providers to assist with these compliance procedures, high demand faced by these providers from other tank car owners may constrain our access to the providers or may substantially increase our costs.Our access to newly-built railcars may be limited, and long-term railcar purchase commitments could subject us to material operational and financial risks. Unlike some of our competitors in the railcar leasing market, we do not manufacture railcars. Our ability to acquire newly-built railcars could be limited if we are unable to acquire railcars from manufacturers on competitive terms. In order to obtain committed access to a supply of newly-built railcars on competitive terms, we sometimes enter into long-term supply agreements with manufacturers to purchase significant numbers of newly-built railcars over a multi-year period. We cannot generally cancel or materially reduce our orders under these purchase commitments. Therefore, if economic conditions weaken during the term of a long-term supply agreement, manufacturers would require us to continue to accept delivery of, and pay for, new railcars at times when it may be difficult for us to lease the railcars and our financing costs may be high, which could negatively affect our revenues and profitability. 15 Deterioration of conditions in the global capital markets or negative changes in our credit ratings may limit our ability to secure financing and may increase our borrowing costs.We rely largely on banks and capital markets to fund our operations and contractual commitments, including the issuance of long-term debt instruments and commercial paper. These markets can experience high levels of volatility and access to capital can be limited for an extended period of time. In addition to conditions in the capital markets, changes in our financial performance or credit ratings or ratings outlook, as determined by rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service, could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs or to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for secured and unsecured debt. If we are unable to secure financing on acceptable terms, our other sources of funds, including available cash, bank facilities, cash flow from operations, and portfolio proceeds, may not be adequate to fund our operations and contractual commitments. Events that negatively affect certain assets, customers, or geographic regions could have a negative impact on our results of operations.We generally derive our revenues from a variety of asset types, customers, industries, and geographic locations. However, from time to time we could have a large investment in a particular asset type, a large revenue stream associated with a particular customer or industry, or a large number of customers located in a particular geographic region. Decreased demand from a discrete event impacting a specific asset type, customer, or industry, or region in which we have a concentrated exposure could negatively impact our results of operations. Risks related to our international operations and expansion into new geographic markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We generate a significant amount of our net income outside the United States. In recent years, we have increased our focus on international rail growth and expansion into select emerging markets as a means to grow and diversify earnings. Our foreign operations and international expansion strategy are subject to the following risks associated with international operations:•Noncompliance with United States laws affecting operations outside of the United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act•Noncompliance with a variety of local laws and regulations•Failure to properly implement changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws•Fluctuations in currency values•Sudden changes in foreign currency exchange controls•Discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies•Difficulties enforcing contractual rights or foreclosing to obtain the return of our assets in certain jurisdictions•Uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles that may be more prevalent in foreign countries•Ineffective or delayed implementation of appropriate controls, policies, and processes across our diverse operations and employee base•Nationalization of properties by foreign governments, and imposition of additional or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our operations outside the United States Moreover, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. Depending upon the severity, scope, and duration of these conditions or events, the adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be material. Our allowance for losses may be inadequate.Our allowance for losses on reservable assets may not be adequate to cover credit losses in our portfolio if unexpected adverse changes occur in macroeconomic conditions or if discrete events adversely affect specific customers, industries, or markets. If the credit quality of our customer base materially deteriorates, it may require us to incur additional credit losses and our financial position or results of operations could be negatively impacted. 16We may incur future asset impairment charges.We review long-lived assets and joint venture investments for impairment regularly, or when circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset or investment may not be recoverable. Among other circumstances, the following may change our estimates of the cash flows we expect our long-lived assets or joint venture investments will generate, which could require us to recognize asset impairment charges: •A weak economic environment or challenging market conditions•New laws, rules or regulations affecting our assets, or changes to existing laws, rules or regulations•Events related to particular customers or asset types•Asset or portfolio sale decisions by managementOur assets may become obsolete.In addition to changes in laws, rules, and regulations that may make assets obsolete, changes in the preferred method our customers use to ship their products, changes in demand for particular products, or a shift by customers toward purchasing assets rather than leasing them may adversely impact us. Our customers' industries are driven by dynamic market forces and trends, which are influenced by economic and political factors. Changes in our customers' markets may significantly affect demand for our rail and marine assets. A reduction in customer demand or change in customers' preferred method of product transportation could result in the economic obsolescence of the assets leased by those customers. We are subject to extensive environmental regulations and the costs of remediation may be material.We are subject to extensive federal, foreign, state, and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials and remediation of contaminated sites. In addition, some of our properties, including those previously owned or leased, have been used for industrial purposes which may have resulted in discharges onto the property. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or operated properties in addition to properties we currently own and use. We routinely assess environmental liabilities, including our potential obligations and commitments for remediation of contaminated sites and the possible amount of recoveries from other responsible parties. Due to the regulatory complexities and risk of unidentified contaminants on its properties, it is possible environmental and remediation costs may be materially different from the costs we have estimated.We have been and may continue to be involved in various types of litigation.The nature of our businesses and our assets potentially expose us to significant personal injury and property damage claims and litigation, environmental claims, or other types of litigation. Customers may use certain types of our railcars to transport crude oil and other hazardous materials, and an accident involving a railcar carrying such materials could lead to litigation and subject us significant liability, particularly where the accident involves serious personal injuries or the loss of life. Our failure to maintain railcars in compliance with governmental regulations and industry rules could also expose us to personal injury, property damage, and environmental claims. A substantial adverse judgment against us could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. High energy prices could reduce the demand for our products and services.The price of natural gas and oil are significant cost drivers for many of our customers, either directly in the form of raw material costs in industries such as the chemical and steel industries, or indirectly in the form of increased transportation costs. Sustained high energy prices could negatively impact these industries resulting in a reduction in customer demand for our assets and related services. We may not be able to obtain cost-effective insurance.We manage our exposure to risk, in part, by insuring our assets. There is no guarantee that cost-effective insurance will consistently be available. If insurance coverage becomes prohibitively expensive, we could be forced to reduce our coverage amount and increase the amount of self-insured risk we retain. 17The fair market value of our long-lived assets may differ from the value of those assets reflected in our financial statements.Our assets primarily consist of long-lived assets such as railcars, marine vessels, and industrial equipment. The carrying value of these assets in the financial statements may sometimes differ from their fair market value. These valuation differences may be positive or negative and could be material based on market conditions and demand for certain assets. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates could negatively impact our results of operations.Upon consolidation, we translate the financial results of certain subsidiaries from their local currency to the US dollar, which exposes us to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. As exchange rates vary, the translated operating results of foreign subsidiaries may differ materially from period to period. We also have gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, which could vary based on fluctuations in exchange rates and the timing of the transactions and their settlement. In addition, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can affect the demand and price for services we provide both domestically and internationally, and could negatively impact on our results of operations. We also face risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates. We may seek to limit foreign exchange rate and interest rate risk with currency or interest rate derivatives, which may not be effective. A material and unexpected change in interest rates or foreign exchange rates could negatively affect our financial performance. We are subject to the inherent risks of our affiliate investments.We are indirectly exposed to risks through our ownership interests in affiliates, as our affiliates may experience many of the same risks discussed in this "Risk Factors" section. Third parties manage and operate many of our affiliates, and those third parties may be smaller than us and have fewer financial resources. Poor business or financial results of these affiliates, or the third parties who manage, operate, or invest along with us in these affiliates, could negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, when a third party manages and operates the affiliate, we may not have control over our affiliates' operational matters, which could result in affiliate actions that have an adverse economic impact on us or expose us to potential liability. We have significant financial exposure related to the performance of our aircraft engine leasing affiliate investments. GATX and Rolls-Royce each own 50% of fourteen domestic and foreign joint venture entities (collectively, the “RRPF affiliates”) that own and lease aircraft engines to Rolls-Royce and other owners and operators of commercial aircraft. These investments expose us to various risks associated with the commercial aviation industry, including geographic exposure and customer concentrations unique to that industry. The financial results of the RRPF affiliates depend heavily on the performance of Rolls-Royce, as Rolls-Royce is both a major customer of, and a critical supplier of maintenance services to, the RRPF affiliates. The RRPF affiliates contribute significantly to our profit. If the financial or operating performance of the RRPF affiliates deteriorated, our results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected. We may be affected by climate change or market or regulatory responses to climate change. Changes in laws, rules, and regulations, or actions by authorities under existing laws, rules, or regulations, to address greenhouse gas emissions and climate change could negatively impact our customers and business. For example, restrictions on emissions could significantly increase costs for our customers whose production processes require significant amounts of energy. Customers' increased costs could reduce their demand to lease our assets. In addition, railcars in our fleet that are used to carry fossil fuels, such as coal and petroleum, could see reduced demand if new government regulations mandate a reduction in fossil fuel consumption. New government regulations could also increase our marine and other operating costs, either directly or through our joint venture entities, or compliance with those regulations could be costly. Potential consequences of laws, rules, or regulations addressing climate change could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. A small number of shareholders could significantly influence our business. Six shareholders collectively control more than 50% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, a small number of shareholders could affect matters that require shareholder approval, such as the election of directors and the approval of significant business transactions. 18We cannot predict with certainty the impact that inflation or deflation will have on our financial results.The timing and duration of the effects of inflation are unpredictable and depend on market conditions and economic factors. Inflation in lease rates as well as inflation in residual values for rail, marine, and other equipment has historically benefited our financial results. However, these benefits may be offset by increases in the costs for goods and services we purchase, including salaries and wages, health care costs, supplies, utilities, maintenance and repair services, and materials, as well as increased financing costs. Significant increases in our cost of goods and services could adversely impact our financial performance. A period of prolonged deflation could negatively impact our lease rate pricing, residual values, and asset remarketing opportunities. These negative impacts of deflation may be offset by decreases to our costs for goods and services, including those listed above.Unfavorable conditions on the Great Lakes could impact business operations, which could result in increases in costs and decreases in revenues.The success of our ASC subsidiary depends on the efficiency of its operations on the Great Lakes. Disruptions at the Sault St. Marie locks or severe weather conditions, such as high wind and ice formation, could cause significant business interruptions or shortened sailing seasons. Additionally, low water levels and vessel draft restrictions may restrict the volume that ASC's vessels can transport per trip. These conditions could negatively impact our results of operations through increased operating costs or decreased revenues. Many of our employees are represented by unions, and failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements may result in strikes, work stoppages, or substantially higher labor costs.A significant portion of our employees are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining agreements that cover a range of workplace matters, such as wages, health and welfare benefits, and work rules. We have generally been successful in negotiating acceptable agreements with the unions without experiencing material work stoppages. However, if we fail to negotiate acceptable new agreements, our business could be disrupted by strikes or lockouts. We could also incur increased operating costs due to higher wages or benefits paid to union workers. Business disruptions or higher operating costs could both have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.Changes to assumptions used to calculate post-retirement costs, increases in funding requirements, and investment losses in pension funds could adversely affect our results of operations.We calculate our pension and other post-retirement costs using various assumptions, such as discount rates, long-term return on plan assets, salary increases, health care cost trend rates, and other factors. Changes to any of these assumptions could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Periods of low interest rates reduce the discount rate we use to calculate our funding obligations, which may increase our funding requirements. Additionally, changes to laws, regulations, or rules could require us to increase funding requirements or to compensate for investment losses in pension plan assets. If we were forced to increase contributions to our pension plans, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be negatively affected. Changes in the mix of earnings in the US and foreign countries could adversely affect our effective tax rate.We are subject to taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in the United States and foreign countries with differing statutory tax rates. The effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, material audit assessments, or legislative changes that impact statutory tax rates, which could include an impact on previously-recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities.We could be adversely affected by United States and global economic and political conditions, including acts or threats of terrorism or war.We may be adversely affected by national and international political developments, instability, and uncertainties, including political unrest and threats of terrorist attacks, which could lead to the following:•Legislation or regulatory action directed toward improving the security of railcars and marine vessels against acts of terrorism, which could affect the construction or operation of railcars and marine vessels19•A decrease in demand for rail and marine services•Lower utilization of rail and marine equipment•Lower rail lease and marine charter rates•Impairments of rail and marine assets or capital market disruption, which may raise our financing costs or limit our access to capital•Liability or losses resulting from acts of terrorism involving our assets Depending upon the severity, scope, and duration of these circumstances, the impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be material. Security threats, including cybersecurity threats and related disruptions, could negatively impact our business.We rely on our IT infrastructure to process, transmit, and store electronic information that is critical to our business' operations. All IT systems are vulnerable to security threats, such as hacking, viruses, malicious software, and other unlawful attempts to disrupt or gain access to systems. Breaches of IT infrastructure could lead to disruptions in our business, potentially including the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of confidential data or other business information. These disruptions could adversely affect our operations, financial position, and results of operations. Our internal control over financial accounting and reporting may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements.If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial accounting, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations. Although management has concluded that adequate internal control procedures are in place, no system of internal control provides absolute assurance that the financial statements are accurate and free of error. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 20