Item 1A. Risk Factors GATX is subject to a number of risks that investors should consider before investing in GATX’s securities. These risks include the factors described below as well as other information contained in this filing and GATX’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. If any of the events described below were to occur, GATX’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could suffer. Competition could result in decreased profitability.GATX operates in a highly competitive business environment. In many cases, competitors are larger entities that have greater financial resources, higher credit ratings and a lower cost of capital than GATX. These factors may enable competitors to offer leases and loans to customers at lower rates than GATX is able to provide, thus impacting GATX’s asset utilization or GATX’s ability to lease assets on a profitable basis. Weak economic conditions, financial market volatility and other factors may decrease customer demand for GATX’s assets and services and negatively impact GATX’s business and results of operations. GATX relies upon continued demand from its customers to lease its railcars, locomotives, marine assets and other equipment. Demand for these assets is dependent upon the markets for the products and services offered by the Company’s customers and the strength and growth of their businesses. A number of GATX’s customers operate in cyclical markets, such as the steel, chemical and construction industries, which are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States and abroad and may experience significant changes in demand over time.Weak economic conditions in the United States and other parts of the world in recent years have reduced demand from certain GATX customers for the types of assets and services GATX provides. Continued weakness in certain sectors of the economy also may make it more difficult for GATX to lease certain types of railcars that are returned either at the end of a lease term or as a result of a customer bankruptcy or default. In Europe, the ongoing sovereign debt crisis, the loss of value by the Euro and related effects on the European banking system have contributed to growing instability in the European currency and credit markets. Further deterioration of European economic conditions or significant loss of value by the Euro could reduce demand for the Company’s European rail assets. In many cases, demand for GATX’s assets is also dependent on customers’ desire to lease, rather than purchase assets. There are a number of items that factor into the customer’s decision to lease or purchase assets, such as tax and accounting considerations, interest rates and operational flexibility. GATX has no control over these external considerations, and changes in these factors, including potential changes to lease accounting rules, could negatively impact demand for its assets held for lease.Additional factors influencing customer demand for GATX’s assets include changes in production volumes, potential changes in supply chains, choices regarding type of transportation asset, availability of substitutes and other operational needs. Demand for the marine assets and shipping services provided by the Company and its marine joint ventures is also dependent upon the factors discussed above. A significant decline in customer demand for the assets and services provided by GATX could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. 12GATX may be unable to maintain assets on lease at satisfactory rates.GATX’s profitability is largely dependent on its ability to maintain assets on lease at satisfactory rates and to re-lease or sell assets upon lease expiration. A number of factors can adversely affect asset utilization rates and lease rates, including, but not limited to, an economic downturn causing reduced demand, changes in customer behavior, excess capacity in the marketplace or other changes in supply or demand for such assets. Economic uncertainty or a decline in customer demand for GATX’s assets could cause customers to demand shorter lease terms and lower lease rates and could result in a decrease in the utilization rate for GATX’s assets and reduced revenues. Alternatively, customers may seek to lock-in relatively low lease rates for longer terms thereby resulting in an adverse impact on current or future revenues.GATX’s access to newly-built railcars may be limited, and long-term railcar purchase commitments could subject GATX to material operational and financial risks. Unlike certain of its competitors in the railcar leasing market, GATX does not manufacture railcars. GATX’s ability to acquire newly-built railcars could be limited if the Company is unable to procure railcars from manufacturers on competitive terms. In order to obtain committed access to a supply of newly-built railcars on competitive terms, GATX from time to time enters into long-term supply agreements with manufacturers to purchase significant numbers of newly-built railcars over a multi-year period. The Company’s purchase commitments under these long-term agreements generally are not subject to cancellation or material reduction by GATX. If economic conditions weaken during the term of a long-term supply agreement, GATX would be required to continue to accept delivery of, and pay for, new railcars at times when it is difficult for the Company to place the railcars with customers and the Company’s financing costs may be unattractively high. GATX’s rail and marine assets and operations are subject to various laws, rules and regulations, and failure to comply with, or changes to, these laws, rules or regulations could have a significant negative effect on GATX’s business and profitability.GATX’s rail and marine operations are subject to various laws, rules and regulations administered by authorities in jurisdictions where GATX does business. In the United States, GATX’s railcar fleet and operations are subject to rules and regulations relating to safety, operations, maintenance and mechanical standards promulgated by various federal and state agencies and industry organizations, including the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Federal Railroad Administration and the Association of American Railroads. In addition, state agencies regulate some aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety matters not otherwise preempted by federal law. GATX’s business operations and its railcar fleet may be adversely impacted by rules and regulations promulgated by these governmental and industry agencies, which could require substantial modification, maintenance or refurbishment of GATX’s railcars or potentially make such railcars inoperable or obsolete. Violations of these rules and regulations can result in substantial fines and penalties, including potential limitations on operations or forfeitures of assets. Similarly, GATX’s marine assets and operations are subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, including the Maritime Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, which establish rules and regulations relating to safety, citizenship, emissions, ballast discharges and other environmental and operational matters. If GATX fails to comply with these rules and regulations, the Company could be prohibited from operating or leasing marine assets in the U.S. market and, under certain circumstances, could incur severe fines and penalties, including potential limitations on operations or forfeitures of assets. In addition, GATX’s foreign operations are subject to the jurisdiction of authorities in countries where the Company does business. Failure to comply with, or future changes to, any of the foregoing laws, rules or regulations could restrict the use or reduce the economic value of GATX’s assets, including loss of revenue, or cause GATX to incur significant expenditures to comply, thereby increasing operating expenses. Certain changes to laws, rules and regulations, or actions by authorities under existing laws, rules or regulations, could result in the obsolescence of various assets or impose compliance costs that are so significant as to render such assets economically obsolete. A significant increase in the number of tank cars requiring compliance-based maintenance could negatively impact operations and substantially increase costs. GATX performs a variety of maintenance programs on its full-service tank cars based upon their service time that are mandated by government regulations and industry rules. New government regulations or industry rules are enacted from time to time, which may 13affect the number and type of procedures required to be performed. These compliance programs are cyclical in nature and as a result, GATX can face significant increases in the volume of tank cars requiring extensive maintenance in any given year. A significant increase in the number of tank cars requiring maintenance may negatively impact GATX's operations and substantially increase maintenance and other related costs. In addition, while GATX has contracted with third party maintenance providers to assist in performing these compliance procedures, GATX's access to these providers may be constrained or costs may increase substantially in times of high demand from other tank car owners for services from these same providers. Deterioration of conditions in the global capital markets, weakening of macroeconomic conditions, and negative changes in credit ratings may limit the ability of GATX to secure financing and may increase its borrowing costs.GATX relies, in large part, upon banks and capital markets to fund its operations and contractual commitments, including the issuance of long-term debt instruments and commercial paper. These markets can experience high levels of volatility and access to capital can be constrained for an extended period of time. In addition to conditions in the capital markets, a number of other factors could cause GATX to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for both secured and unsecured debt. These factors include GATX’s financial performance and its credit ratings and rating outlook as determined primarily by rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investor Service. If GATX is unable to secure financing on acceptable terms, the Company’s other sources of funds, including available cash, bank facilities, cash flow from operations and portfolio proceeds, may not be adequate to fund its operations and contractual commitments. GATX’s assets may become obsolete.In addition to changes in laws, rules and regulations that may make assets obsolete, GATX may be adversely impacted by changes in the preferred method used by the Company’s customers to ship their products, changes in demand for particular products, or by a shift by customers toward purchasing assets rather than leasing them from GATX. The industries in which GATX’s customers operate are driven by dynamic market forces and trends, which are in turn influenced by economic and political factors in the United States and abroad. Demand for GATX’s rail and marine assets may be significantly affected by changes in the markets in which the Company’s customers operate. A significant reduction in customer demand for transportation or manufacture of a particular product or change in the preferred method of transportation used by customers to ship their products could result in the economic obsolescence of GATX assets leased by those customers. Events or conditions negatively affecting certain assets, customers or geographic regions in which GATX has a large investment could have a negative impact on its results of operations.GATX’s revenues are generally derived from a number of different asset types, customers, industries and geographic locations. However, from time to time, GATX could have a large investment in a particular asset type, a large revenue stream associated with a particular customer or industry, or a large number of customers located in a particular geographic region. Decreased demand from a discrete event impacting a particular asset type, discrete events with respect to a specific customer or industry, or adverse regional economic conditions, particularly for those assets, customers or regions in which GATX has a concentrated exposure, could have a negative impact on GATX’s results of operations. Risks related to GATX's international operations and expansion into new geographic markets could adversely affect GATX's business, financial condition and operating results. GATX generates a significant amount of its net income outside the United States and in recent years has increased its focus on international rail growth and expansion into select emerging markets as a means to grow and diversify earnings. GATX's foreign operations and international expansion strategy are subject to risks associated with international operations, including: compliance with United States laws affecting operations outside of the United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; compliance with a variety of local laws and regulations; changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws; fluctuations in currency values; sudden changes in foreign currency exchange controls; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies; difficulties enforcing contractual rights or foreclosing to obtain the return of GATX assets in certain jurisdictions; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; effective and immediate implementation of appropriate controls, policies and processes across GATX's diverse operations and employee base; nationalization of properties by foreign governments, and imposition of additional or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and similar restrictions on GATX's sales outside the United States. Moreover, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could 14interrupt and negatively affect GATX's business operations. Depending upon the severity, scope and duration of these conditions or events, the adverse impact on GATX's financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be material. GATX’s allowance for losses may prove inadequate.GATX’s allowance for losses on reservable assets may not be adequate over time to cover credit losses in its portfolio if unexpected adverse changes in the economy differ from the expectations of management or if discrete events adversely affect specific customers, industries or markets. If the credit quality of GATX’s customer base materially deteriorates, the Company may be required to provide for additional credit losses and GATX’s financial position or results of operations could be negatively impacted. GATX may incur future asset impairment charges.GATX regularly reviews long-lived assets and joint venture investments for impairment, including when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset or investment may not be recoverable. GATX may be required to recognize asset impairment charges in the future as a result of a weak economic environment, challenging market conditions, events related to particular customers or asset types, or as a result of asset or portfolio sale decisions by management or other factors that affect GATX’s estimates of expected cash flows to be generated from its long-lived assets or joint venture investments.GATX is subject to extensive environmental regulations and the costs of remediation may be material.GATX’s operations are subject to extensive federal, foreign, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials and remediation of contaminated sites. In addition, some of GATX’s properties, including those previously owned or leased, have been used for industrial purposes whose activities may have resulted in discharges onto the property. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or operated properties as well as properties currently owned and used by the Company. Environmental liabilities are routinely assessed, including obligations and commitments for remediation of contaminated sites and assessments of ranges and probabilities of recoveries from other responsible parties. Due to the regulatory complexities and risk of unidentified contaminants on its properties, the potential exists for environmental and remediation costs to be materially different from the costs GATX has estimated.GATX has been, and may in the future be, involved in various types of litigation.The nature of GATX’s businesses and assets expose the Company to the potential for claims and litigation related to personal injury and property damage, environmental claims and various other matters. Certain GATX railcars may be used by customers to transport hazardous materials, and a rupture of a railcar carrying such materials in an accident could lead to litigation and subject GATX to the potential for significant liability. GATX's failure to maintain railcars in compliance with governmental regulations and industry rules could expose the Company to personal injury, property damage and environmental claims. A substantial adverse judgment against GATX could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. High energy prices could have a negative effect on the demand for GATX’s products and services.Energy prices, including the price of natural gas and oil, are significant cost drivers for many of GATX’s customers, either directly in the form of raw material costs in industries such as the chemical and steel industries, or indirectly in the form of increased transportation costs. Sustained high energy prices could negatively impact these industries resulting in a corresponding adverse effect on customer demand for GATX’s assets, as well as related services. GATX may not be able to procure insurance on a cost-effective basis.GATX manages its exposure to risk, in part, by insuring its assets and their associated risks. There is no guarantee that such insurance will be consistently available on a cost-effective basis in the future. If the cost of insurance coverage becomes prohibitively expensive, GATX could be forced to reduce the amount of coverage and increase the amount of its self-insured risk retention. 15The fair market value of GATX’s long-lived assets may differ from the value of those assets reflected in its financial statements.GATX’s assets primarily consist of long-lived assets such as railcars, marine vessels and industrial equipment. The carrying value of these assets in the financial statements may at times differ from their fair market value. These valuation differences may be positive or negative and may be material based on market conditions and demand for certain assets. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates could have a negative impact on GATX’s results of operations.GATX’s results are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of certain subsidiaries are translated from their local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, the operating results of foreign subsidiaries, when translated, may differ materially from period to period. GATX is also subject to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, which could vary based on fluctuations in exchange rates and the timing of the transactions and their settlement. In addition, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can have an effect on the demand and relative price for services provided by GATX domestically and internationally, and could have a negative impact on GATX’s results of operations. GATX is also subject to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates. The Company may seek to limit foreign exchange rate and interest rate risk through the use of currency or interest rate derivatives, but these measures may not be effective. A material and unexpected change in interest rates or foreign exchange rates could negatively affect GATX’s financial performance. GATX is subject to the inherent risks of its affiliate investments.GATX has investments in affiliated companies that are subject to many of the same risks discussed in this “Risk Factors” section, and GATX is indirectly exposed to these risks through its ownership interests in these affiliates. Many of these affiliates are managed and operated by third parties who may be smaller than GATX and have lesser financial resources. Adverse developments in the business or financial results of these affiliates, or the third parties who manage, operate, or invest along with GATX in these affiliates, could have a negative impact on GATX’s financial results. Additionally, where an affiliate is managed and operated by GATX’s partner in the affiliate or another third party, GATX may not have control over operational matters, which could result in actions taken at the affiliate level that may have an adverse economic impact on GATX or otherwise expose GATX to potential liability. GATX has significant financial exposure related to the performance of its aircraft engine leasing affiliate investments. GATX and Rolls-Royce each own 50% of fourteen domestic and foreign joint venture entities (collectively, the “RRPF Affiliates”) that own and lease aircraft engines to Rolls-Royce and other owners and operators of commercial aircraft. Through these investments, GATX is exposed to various risks associated with the commercial aviation industry, including geographic exposure and customer concentrations unique to that industry. Further, the financial results of the RRPF Affiliates are heavily dependent on the performance of Rolls-Royce, which is both a major customer of, and a critical supplier of maintenance services to, the RRPF Affiliates. The RRPF Affiliates are significant contributors to GATX’s consolidated segment profit. If the financial or operating performance of the RRPF Affiliates were to deteriorate, GATX’s results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected. GATX may be affected by climate change or market or regulatory responses to climate change. Changes in laws, rules and regulations, or actions by authorities under existing laws, rules or regulations, to address greenhouse gas emissions and climate change could have a negative impact on the Company’s customers and business. For example, restrictions on emissions could significantly increase costs for GATX customers who produce energy or manufacture chemical or other products that require significant amounts of energy to produce. This, in turn, could reduce customer demand to lease the Company’s assets. New government regulations could also increase marine and other operating costs for GATX or its joint venture entities, or could require significant capital expenditures to comply. All or any of these potential consequences of climate change could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A small number of shareholders could significantly influence GATX’s business and affairs. Based on filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and other information available to the Company, seven shareholders collectively controlled approximately 50% of GATX’s outstanding common stock. Accordingly, a small number of shareholders could affect matters that require shareholder approval, such as the election of directors and the approval of significant business transactions. 16GATX cannot predict with certainty the impact that inflation or deflation will have on its financial results.Effects of inflation are unpredictable as to timing and duration and depend on market conditions and economic factors. Inflation in lease rates as well as inflation in residual values for rail, marine and other equipment has historically benefited GATX’s financial results. However, these benefits may be offset, in whole or in part, by increases in the costs for goods and services purchased by GATX, including salaries and wages, health care costs, supplies, utilities, and maintenance and repair services and materials, as well as increased financing costs. Significant increases in GATX’s cost of goods and services could adversely impact the Company’s financial performance. A period of prolonged deflation would have a negative impact on GATX from several perspectives, including lease rate pricing, residual values and asset remarketing opportunities. These negative impacts of deflation may be offset, in whole or in part, by decreases in the cost to GATX of goods and services, including those discussed herein.Unfavorable conditions on the Great Lakes could impact normal business operations, which could result in increased costs and decreases in revenues.The success of GATX’s ASC subsidiary is dependent upon its ability to operate efficiently on the Great Lakes. Disruptions at the Sault St. Marie locks or severe weather conditions, including, but not limited to, high wind and ice formation, could cause significant business interruptions or shortened sailing seasons. Additionally, low water levels and vessel draft restrictions in certain harbors or canals may restrict the volume that may be transported in ASC’s vessels on a per trip basis. These conditions could negatively impact GATX’s results of operations through increased operating costs or decreased revenues. Many of GATX’s employees are represented by unions, and the failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements may result in strikes, work stoppages or substantially higher labor costs.A significant portion of GATX’s employees are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining agreements that cover a range of workplace matters, including wages, health and welfare benefits, work rules and other issues. Historically, the Company and its unions have been generally successful in negotiating acceptable agreements without the occurrence of material work stoppages. However, if the Company is unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements, it could result in strikes by the affected workers, lockouts by the Company, or other forms of business disruption and increased operating costs due to higher wages or benefits paid to union workers, any of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Changes to assumptions used to calculate post-retirement costs, increases in funding requirements and investment losses in pension funds could adversely affect GATX’s results of operations.GATX’s pension and other post-retirement costs are dependent on various assumptions used to calculate such amounts, including discount rates, long-term return on plan assets, salary increases, health care cost trend rates and other factors. Changes to any of these assumptions could adversely affect GATX’s financial position and results of operations. Periods of low interest rates reduce the discount rate used to calculate GATX's funding obligations, which may increase GATX's funding requirements. Additionally, GATX could be required to increase contributions to its pension plans as a result of changes to laws, regulations or rules that increase funding requirements or to compensate for investment losses in pension plan assets. If GATX were forced to increase contributions to its pension plans, the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected. GATX’s effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in the U.S. and foreign countries.GATX is subject to taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. As a result, GATX’s effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in the United States and foreign countries with differing statutory tax rates, legislative changes impacting statutory tax rates, including the impact on recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or by material audit assessments.United States and global economic and political conditions, including acts or threats of terrorism or war, could adversely affect GATX.National and international political developments, instability and uncertainties, including political unrest and threats of terrorist attacks, could result in global economic weakness in the United States and in other countries where GATX operates, and could have an adverse impact on GATX. The effects may include: legislation or regulatory action directed toward improving the security of railcars and marine 17vessels against acts of terrorism, which could affect the construction or operation of railcars and marine vessels; a decrease in demand for rail and marine services; lower utilization of new and existing rail and marine equipment; lower rail lease and marine charter rates; impairments of rail and marine assets or capital market disruption, which may raise GATX’s financing costs or limit its access to capital; and liability or losses resulting from acts of terrorism involving GATX’s assets. Depending upon the severity, scope and duration of these effects, the impact on GATX’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be material. GATX’s business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and related disruptions. GATX relies on its information technology (“IT”) infrastructure to process, transmit and store electronic information critical for the efficient operation of its business and day-to-day operations. All IT systems are potentially vulnerable to security threats, including hacking, viruses and other malicious software, and other unlawful attempts to disrupt or gain access to such systems. Breaches in GATX’s IT infrastructure could lead to a material disruption in its business, including the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or other business information, and may have a material adverse effect on GATX’s operations, financial position and results of operations. GATX’s internal control over financial accounting and reporting may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements.If GATX fails to maintain adequate internal controls over financial accounting, the Company may not be able to ensure that GATX can conclude on an ongoing basis that it has effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations. Although GATX’s management has concluded that adequate internal control procedures are in place, no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance that the financial statements are accurate and free of error. As a result, the risk exists that GATX’s internal control may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 18