ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WITHIN THE MEANING OF SECTION 21E OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED. FOR THIS PURPOSE, STATEMENTS CONTAINED HEREIN THAT ARE NOT STATEMENTS OF HISTORICAL FACT MAY BE DEEMED TO BE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, THE WORDS “BELIEVES”, “ANTICIPATES”, “PLANS”, “EXPECTS” AND SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS ARE INTENDED TO IDENTIFY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AND ARE NOT GUARANTEES OF FUTURE PERFORMANCE. ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE INDICATED IN SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AS A RESULT OF CERTAIN FACTORS INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THOSE SET FORTH UNDER THIS HEADING. The Financial Statements are Unaudited and the Quarterly Financial Statements Have Not Been Reviewed. The financial statements in the Form 10-K for the years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission have not been audited by an independent accounting firm. The financial statements in Form 10-Q for the quarters ended December 31, 2008, March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission have not been reviewed by an independent accounting firm. While the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding fair presentation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations such internal control may not prevent or detect misstatements that may arise in an audit or review by an independent accounting firm. GDC’s Negative Operating History Since Emerging from Bankruptcy. The Company emerged from Bankruptcy on September 15, 2003. Accordingly, an investor in the Company’s common stock must evaluate the risks, uncertainties, and difficulties frequently encountered by a company emerging from Chapter 11 and that operates in rapidly evolving markets such as the telecommunications equipment industry. Due to the Company’s limited and negative operating history, and poor performance since emergence, the Company may not successfully implement any of its strategies or successfully address these risks and uncertainties. As described by the following factors, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Non-payment of Debentures and Certain Senior Debt. The Company has outstanding debentures in the principal amount of approximately $19.4 million which, together with accrued interest thereon matured on October 1, 2008. A subordinated security agreement signed by the indenture trustee on behalf of the debenture holders provides that no payments may be made to debenture holders and that no event of default may be declared under the indenture while the senior secured debt, including debt owed to Mr. Modlin and Mr. Segall (Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Director, respectively), is outstanding. In the absence of such restrictions the Company does not presently have the ability to repay the debentures. A failure to pay the debentures when they become due and payable as described above, could result in an event of default being declared under the indenture governing the debentures. The senior debt owed to Messrs. Modlin and Segall is due and payable but payment has not been demanded by either of them. Together with the other conditions described in the Liquidity section which follows, such condition raises substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 8 Dependence on Legacy and Recently Introduced Products and New Product Development. The Company’s future results of operations are dependent on market acceptance of existing and future applications for the Company’s current products and new products in development. Sales of the Company’s legacy products, primarily digital service unit and V.34 lines, declined to approximately 22% of product sales in fiscal 2009 from 26% in fiscal 2008. The Company anticipates that net sales from legacy products will continue to decline over the next several years and net sales of new products will increase at the same time, with significant quarterly fluctuations possible, and without assurance that sales of new products will increase at the same time. Market acceptance of the Company’s recently introduced and future product lines is dependent on a number of factors, not all of which are in the Company’s control, including the continued growth in the use of bandwidth intensive applications, continued deployment of new telecommunication services, market acceptance of multiservice access devices, the availability and price of competing products and technologies, and the success of the Company’s sales and marketing efforts. Failure of the Company’s products to achieve market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to introduce new products in a timely manner in order to replace sales of legacy products could result in customers purchasing products from competitors and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. New products under development may require additional development work, enhancement and testing or further refinement before the Company can make them commercially available. The Company has in the past experienced delays in the introduction of new products, product applications and enhancements due to a variety of internal factors, such as reallocation of priorities, financial constraints, difficulty in hiring sufficient qualified personnel, and unforeseen technical obstacles, as well as changes in customer requirements. Such delays have deferred the receipt of revenue from the products involved. If the Company’s products have performance, reliability or quality shortcomings, then the Company may experience reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in collecting accounts receivable, and additional warranty and service expenses. Customer Concentration and Economic Conditions. The Company’s customers include local exchange carriers, inter-exchange carriers, wireless service providers, and resellers who sell to these customers. Such service providers require substantial capital for the development, construction, and expansion of their networks and the introduction of their services. The ability of service providers to fund such expenditures often depends on their ability to budget or obtain sufficient capital resources. In the past, resources made available for such capital acquisitions have varied along with market conditions in the United States. If the Company’s current or potential service provider customers cannot successfully raise the necessary funds, or if they experience any other adverse effects with respect to their operating results or profitability, their capital spending programs may be adversely impacted which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A small number of customers have historically accounted for a majority of the Company’s sales (see Item 1. Business – Sales and Marketing). Sales to the Company’s top five customers accounted for 57% and 54% of revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008. There can be no assurance that the Company’s current customers will continue to place orders with the Company, that orders by existing customers will continue at the levels of previous periods, or that the Company will be able to obtain orders from new customers. The Company expects the economic climate and conditions in the telecommunication equipment industry to remain unpredictable in fiscal 2010 and beyond. Additionally, world economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The loss of one or more of our service provider customers, such as occurred in the past through industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. A bankruptcy filing by one or more of the Company’s major customers could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Dependence on Key Personnel. The Company’s future success will depend to a large extent on the continued contributions of its executive officers and key management, sales, and technical personnel. Each of the Company’s executive officers, and key management, sales and technical personnel would be difficult to replace. The Company does not have employment contracts with its key employees. The Company implemented significant cost and staff reductions in recent years, which may make it more difficult to attract and retain key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of the Company’s executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to attract qualified personnel, could delay product development cycles or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on Key Suppliers and Component Availability. The Company generally relies upon several contract manufacturers to assemble finished and semi-finished goods. The Company’s products use certain components, such as microprocessors, memory chips and pre-formed enclosures that are acquired or available from one or a limited number of sources. Component parts that are incorporated into board assemblies are sourced directly by the Company from suppliers. The Company has generally been able to procure adequate supplies of these components in a timely manner from existing sources. While most components are standard items, certain application-specific integrated circuit chips used in many of the Company’s products are customized to the Company’s specifications. None of the suppliers of components operate under contract. Additionally, availability of some standard components may be affected by market shortages and allocations. The Company’s inability to obtain a sufficient quantity of components when required, or to develop alternative sources due to lack of availability or degradation of quality, at acceptable prices and within a reasonable time, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments which could materially affect the Company’s operating results in any given period. In addition, as referenced above, the Company relies heavily on outsourcing subcontractors for production. The inability of such subcontractors to deliver products in a timely fashion or in accordance with the Company’s quality standards could materially adversely affect the Company’s operating results and business. The Company uses internal forecasts to manage its finished goods and components requirements. Lead times for materials and components may vary significantly, and depend on factors such as specific supplier performance, contract terms, and general market demand for components. If orders vary from forecasts, the Company may experience excess or inadequate inventory of certain materials and components, and suppliers may demand longer lead times and higher prices. From time to time, the Company has experienced shortages and allocations of certain components, resulting in delays in fulfillment of customer orders. Such shortages and allocations may occur in the future, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in Quarterly and Annual Operating Results. The Company’s sales are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations due to a number of factors resulting in more variability and less predictability in the Company’s quarter-to-quarter sales and operating results. As a small number of customers have historically accounted for a majority of the Company’s sales, order volatility by any of these major customers has had and may have an impact on the Company in the prior, current and future fiscal years. Most of the Company’s sales require short delivery times. The Company’s ability to affect and judge the timing of individual customer orders is limited. Large fluctuations in sales from quarter-to-quarter could be due to a wide variety of factors, such as delay, cancellation or acceleration of customer projects, and other factors discussed below. The Company’s sales for a given quarter may depend to a significant degree upon planned product shipments to a single customer, often related to specific equipment or service deployment projects. The Company has experienced both acceleration and slowdown in orders related to such projects, causing changes in the sales level of a given quarter relative to both the preceding and subsequent quarters. 10 Delays or lost sales can be caused by other factors beyond the Company’s control, including late deliveries by the third party subcontractors the Company is using to outsource its manufacturing operations and by vendors of components used in a customer’s products, slower than anticipated growth in demand for the Company’s products for specific projects or delays in implementation of projects by customers and delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new services and products. Delays and lost sales have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. The Company believes that sales in the past have been adversely impacted by merger and restructuring activities by some of its top customers. These and similar delays or lost sales could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Customer Concentration” and “Dependence on Key Suppliers and Component Availability”. The Company’s backlog at the beginning of each quarter typically is not sufficient to achieve expected sales for that quarter. To achieve its sales objectives, the Company is dependent upon obtaining orders in a quarter for shipment in that quarter. Furthermore, the Company’s agreements with certain of its customers typically provide that they may change delivery schedules and cancel orders within specified timeframes, typically up to 30 days prior to the scheduled shipment date, without significant penalty. Some of the Company’s customers have in the past built, and may in the future build, significant inventory in order to facilitate more rapid deployment of anticipated major projects or for other reasons. Decisions by such customers to reduce their inventory levels could lead to reductions in purchases from the Company in certain periods. These reductions, in turn, could cause fluctuations in the Company’s operating results and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations in the periods in which the inventory is reduced. Operating results may also fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including market acceptance of the Company’s new lines of products and product enhancements, delays in new product introductions by the Company, , changes in the mix of products and or customers, the gain or loss of a significant customer, competitive price pressures, changes in expenses related to operations, research and development and marketing associated with existing and new products, and the general condition of the economy. All of the above factors are difficult for the Company to forecast, and these or other factors can materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations for one quarter or a series of quarters. The Company’s expense levels are based in part on its expectations regarding future sales and are fixed in the short term to a certain extent. Therefore, the Company may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in sales. Any significant decline in demand relative to the Company’s expectations or any material delay of customer orders could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, the Company has had, and in some future quarter may have operating results below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of the Company’s Common Stock would likely be materially and adversely affected. See “Potential Volatility of Stock Price”. Competition. The markets for telecommunications network access and multi-service equipment addressed by the Company’s products can be characterized as highly competitive, with intensive equipment price pressure. These markets are subject to rapid technological change, wide-ranging regulatory requirements, the entrance of low cost manufacturers and the presence of formidable competitors that have greater name recognition and financial resources. Certain technology such as the V.34 and digital service units portion of the SpectraComm line are not considered new and the market has experienced decline in recent years. 11 Industry consolidation could lead to competition with fewer, but stronger competitors. In addition, advanced termination products are emerging, which represent both new market opportunities, as well as a threat to the Company’s current products. Furthermore, basic line termination functions are increasingly being integrated by competitors, such as Cisco and Alcatel/Lucent, into other equipment such as routers and switches. To the extent that current or potential competitors can expand their current offerings to include products that have functionality similar to the Company’s products and planned products, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Many of the Company’s current and potential competitors have substantially greater technical, financial, manufacturing and marketing resources than the Company. In addition, many of the Company’s competitors have long-established relationships with network service providers. There can be no assurance that the Company will have the financial resources, technical expertise, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Rapid Technological Change. The network access and telecommunications equipment markets are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and frequent new product introductions. The rapid development of new technologies increases the risk that current or new competitors could develop products that would reduce the competitiveness of the Company’s products. The Company’s success will depend to a substantial degree upon its ability to respond to changes in technology and customer requirements. This will require the timely selection, development and marketing of new products and enhancements on a cost-effective basis. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process, requiring high levels of innovation. The Company has and may need to supplement its internal expertise and resources with specialized expertise or intellectual property from third parties to develop new products. Furthermore, the communications industry is characterized by the need to design products that meet industry standards for safety, emissions and network interconnection. With new and emerging technologies and service offerings from network service providers, such standards are often changing or unavailable. As a result, there is a potential for product development delays due to the need for compliance with new or modified standards. The introduction of new and enhanced products also requires that the Company manage transitions from older products in order to minimize disruptions in customer orders, avoid excess inventory of old products and ensure that adequate supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customer orders. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in developing, introducing or managing the transition to new or enhanced products, or that any such products will be responsive to technological changes or will gain market acceptance. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected if the Company were to be unsuccessful, or to incur significant delays in developing and introducing such new products or enhancements. See “Dependence on Legacy and Recently Introduced Products and New Product Development”. Compliance with Regulations and Evolving Industry Standards. The market for the Company’s products is characterized by the need to meet a significant number of communications regulations and standards, some of which are evolving as new technologies are deployed. In the United States, the Company’s products must comply with various regulations defined by the Federal Communications Commission and standards established by Underwriters Laboratories and Telcordia Technologies, and new products introduced in the SpectraComm line and other products designed for telecommunications carrier networks will need to be NEBS Certified. As standards continue to evolve, the Company will be required to modify its products or develop and support new versions of its products. The failure of the Company’s products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving industry standards, could delay introduction of the Company’s products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 GDC Will Require Additional Funding to Sustain Operations. The Company emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy on September 15, 2003. Under the plan of reorganization, the Company was to pay all unsecured creditors 100% of their allowed claims based upon a five year business plan. However, the Company has not met its business plan objectives since emerging from Chapter 11 and to date such creditors have not received any payments. The ability to meet the objectives of this business plan is directly affected by the factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. The Company cannot assure investors that it will be able to obtain new customers or to generate the increased revenues required to meet business plan objectives. In addition, in order to execute the business plan, the Company may need to seek additional funding through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or commercial partners. The Company cannot assure investors that it will obtain funding on acceptable terms, if at all. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient revenues or access capital on acceptable terms, it may be required to (a) obtain funds on unfavorable terms that may require the Company to relinquish rights to certain of its technologies or other assets or that would significantly dilute its stockholders and/or (b) significantly scale back current operations. Any of these possibilities would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated With Entry into International Markets. The Company has limited experience in international markets with the exception of a few direct customers and resellers/integrators and sales into Western Europe through its formerly active subsidiary in France, which was acquired by the Company in 2005 and de-activated in 2009. The Company intends to expand sales of its products outside of North America and to enter certain international markets, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. Conducting business outside of North America is subject to certain risks, including longer payment cycles, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, difficulties in supporting foreign customers, greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and potentially adverse tax consequences. To the extent any Company sales are denominated in foreign currency, the Company’s sales and results of operations may also be directly affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to sell its products internationally, the Company must meet standards established by telecommunications authorities in various countries. A delay in obtaining, or the failure to obtain, certification of its products in countries outside the United States could delay or preclude the Company’s marketing and sales efforts in such countries, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risk of Third Party Claims of Infringement. The network access and telecommunications equipment industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. From time to time, third parties may assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to the Company. The Company has not conducted a formal patent search relating to the technology used in its products, due in part to the high cost and limited benefits of a formal search. In addition, since patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the related patent is issued and foreign patent applications generally are not publicly disclosed for at least a portion of the time that they are pending, applications may have been filed which, if issued as patents, could relate to the Company’s products. Software comprises a substantial portion of the technology in the Company’s products. The scope of protection accorded to patents covering software-related inventions is evolving and is subject to a degree of uncertainty which may increase the risk and cost to the Company if the Company discovers third party patents related to its software products or if such patents are asserted against the Company in the future. The Company may receive communications from third parties asserting that the Company’s products infringe or may infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. In its distribution agreements, the Company typically agrees to indemnify its customers for any expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of patents, trademarks or copyrights of third parties. In the event of litigation to determine the validity of any third-party claims, such litigation, whether or not determined in favor of the Company, could result in significant expense to the Company and divert the efforts of the Company’s technical and management personnel from productive tasks. In the event of an adverse ruling in such litigation, the Company might be required to discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses from third parties. There can be no assurance that licenses from third parties would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In the event of a successful claim against the Company and the failure of the Company to develop or license a substitute technology, the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 13 Limited Protection of Intellectual Property. The Company relies upon a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect proprietary rights in its products and technologies. The Company has been issued and has licensed certain U.S., Canadian and other foreign patents with respect to certain products, including licenses granted under patents sold in 2008. There can be no assurance that third parties have not or will not develop equivalent technologies or products without infringing the Company’s patents and/or patent licenses or that a court having jurisdiction over a dispute involving such patents would hold the Company’s patents and/or licenses valid, enforceable and infringed. The Company also typically enters into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with its employees and independent contractors, and non-disclosure agreements with its suppliers, distributors and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of its proprietary information. There can be no assurance that these statutory and contractual arrangements will deter misappropriation of the Company’s technologies or discourage independent third-party development of similar technologies. In the event such arrangements are insufficient, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The laws of certain foreign countries in which the Company’s products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect the Company’s products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus, make the possibility of misappropriation of the Company’s technology and products more likely. Potential Volatility of Stock Price. The trading price of the Company’s common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by the Company or its competitors, developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights, general conditions in the telecommunication network access and equipment industries, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, or other events or factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of many technology companies and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Company-specific factors or broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company has experienced significant fluctuations in its stock price and share trading volume in the past and may continue to do so. The Company is Controlled by a Small Number of Stockholders and Certain Creditors. In particular, Mr. Modlin, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and President of Weisman Celler Spett & Modlin, P.C., legal counsel for the Company, owns approximately 73% of the Company’s outstanding shares of Class B stock and has stock options and warrants that would upon exercise allow him to own approximately 57% of the Company’s common stock, although all such options and warrants have exercise prices which are substantially over the market price of the common stock on January 12, 2010. Furthermore, Mr. Modlin is also trustee for the benefit of a daughter of Mr. Charles P. Johnson, the former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and such trust holds approximately 1.2% of the outstanding shares of Class B stock. Class B stock under certain circumstances has 10 votes per share in the election of Directors. The Board of Directors is to consist of no less than three and no more than thirteen directors, one of which may be designated by the debenture trustee. The holders of the 9% Preferred Stock are presently entitled to designate two directors until all arrears on the dividends on such 9% Preferred Stock are paid in full. To date, the holders of the 9% Preferred Stock have not designated any directors. In the event of a payment default under the debentures which is not cured within 60 days after written notice, the debenture trustee shall be entitled to select a majority of the Board of Directors. Accordingly, in the absence of a payment default under the debentures, Mr. Modlin may be able to elect all members of the Board of Directors not designated by the holders of the 9% Preferred Stock and the debenture trustee and determine the outcome of certain corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions of the Company. This level of ownership by such persons and entities could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock, thereby making it less likely that a stockholder will receive a premium in any sale of shares. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 