Item 1A. Risk Factors. Business Risks We have a history of losses To date, we have been unable to generate revenue sufficient to be profitable. The Company had a net loss of $(5,368,515), or $(0.01) per share, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, compared to a net loss of $(7,829,999), or $(0.03) per share, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. The Company might not achieve the level of revenues needed to be profitable in the future or, if profitability is achieved, might not sustain such profitability. The Company lacks an operating history making evaluation of its business difficult. While the Company's revenues during the past eight years have been exclusively derived from sales and servicing of its MedClean Systems, it's business is at an early stage of commercialization, and there is no meaningful historical financial or other information available upon which to base an evaluation of the Company's ability to increase its revenues in accordance with its projections or to compete effectively with those persons with similar or alternate systems. In addition, the Company's early stage of commercialization means that it has less insight into how market and technology trends may affect its business. This includes the ability to attract and convince customers to switch from their current method of dealing with the disposal of their medical waste to the Company's technology. As a consequence, the revenue and income potential of its business is unproven. The Company is dependent on third party component suppliers. The Company is dependent on third party suppliers for the supply of components of its MedClean units. Although the Company believes that the required components are available and can be provided by other suppliers, delays may be incurred in establishing relationships or in waiting for quality control assurance with other manufacturers for substitute components. 12 The Company may not be able to effectively protect its proprietary technology, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and make it easier for its competitors to duplicate its products. The Company regards certain aspects of its products, processes, services and technology as proprietary. The Company has registered four of its trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, Aduromed®, MedClean®, AutoTouch® and Quiet Cart®. On November 24, 2008, the Company filed a patent application, entitled "Containerized Medical Waste Treatment System and Related Method," which focuses on the design and configuration of the Company's new standard, containerized MedClean Systems. That same patent application also aims to protect the sterilization protocol/process applied to the medical waste. The Company believes the sterilization protocol provides a competitive advantage in the form of efficacious waste treatment within an efficient process cycle time. Other than these patent filings, the Company does not have nor does it intend to apply for patent protection with respect to the technology encompassed by its present Systems. The Company requires all of its employees to sign Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreements that prohibit the dissemination or use of the Company’s know-how and technology other than in the legitimate performance of the employee’s duties. Our ability to compete successfully will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and abroad. The Company may apply in the future for patent protection for uses, processes, products and systems that it develops. Any future patent for which the Company applies may not be issued; any existing contractual non-disclosures obligations may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; third parties might infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights; and third parties might independently develop similar products, services and technology. The Company may incur substantial costs in asserting or defending any breach of contract or infringement suits or in asserting any license rights, including those granted by third parties, the expenditure of which the Company might not be able to afford. An adverse determination could subject the Company to significant liabilities to third parties, require it to seek licenses from or pay royalties to third parties or require it to develop appropriate alternative technology. Such licenses might not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and the Company might not develop alternate technology at an acceptable price or at all. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and profitability. The Company may have to resort to litigation to enforce its intellectual property rights, protect its trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or defend itself from claims of infringement, invalidity or unenforceability. Litigation may be expensive and divert resources even if the Company wins. This could adversely affect its business, financial condition and operating results such that it could cause the Company to reduce or cease operations. The Company may not be able to develop new products that achieve market acceptance. Our future growth and profitability depend, in part, on our ability to respond to technological advances and to successfully develop and market new products that achieve market acceptance. This industry has been historically marked by very rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products. While we have been engaged in development of equipment suitable for on-site treatment of RMW by small quantity generators (such as doctors' offices and clinics), we might not be able develop new products that will realize broad market acceptance. The Company's existing products may not be able in the future to meet changes in environmental laws and regulations regarding regulated medical waste. The future of our business will depend on our ability to respond to any future changes in the federal, state and local regulatory environment. Since the Company does not itself generate medical waste and is not itself in control of, nor does it handle, the medical waste but only sells its equipment to meet its contractual obligations to its customers, it is not itself currently subject to regulations with respect to the disposal of RMW; however, any change in this regulatory regime in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations. The nature of our business exposes us to professional and product liability claims, which could materially adversely impact our business and profitability. The malfunction or misuse of our MedClean Systems may result in damage or injury to property or persons, as well as violation of various health and safety regulations, thereby subjecting us to possible liability. Although our insurance coverage is in amounts and deductibles we believe prudent in our business, and we have not experienced any claims made or lawsuits instituted against us with regard to any such damage or violations, such insurance might not be sufficient to cover any potential liability. Further, in the event of either adverse claim experience or insurance industry trends, we may in the future have difficulty in obtaining product liability insurance or be forced to pay very high premiums, and our present coverage might not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, insurance might not adequately cover any product liability claim against us. However, we do believe our insurance coverage is adequate to cover any claims made, and we review our insurance requirement with our insurance broker at least annually. 13 Other parties may assert that our technology infringes on their intellectual property rights, which could divert management time and resources and possibly force us to redesign our products. Developing products based upon new technologies can result in litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. While no infringement claims have been made or threatened against us, third parties might assert infringement claims against us in the future, and such assertions by such parties might result in costly litigation in which they might prevail. In addition, we may not be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms or, alternatively, be able to redesign products on a cost-effective basis to avoid infringement. Any infringement claim or other litigation against or by us could have a material adverse effect on us and could cause us to reduce or cease operations, and even if we are successful in a litigation to defend such claim, there may be adverse effects due to the significant expenses related to defending the litigation. The loss of certain members of our management team could adversely affect our business. Our success is highly dependent on the continued efforts of all the members of our executive management team. Should operations expand, we will need to hire persons with a variety of skills and competition for these skilled individuals could be intense. If any of our executive management team should retire or leave we may not be successful in attracting and/or retaining key personnel in the future. Our failure to do so could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have employment agreements with all of our management personnel but we do not carry any "key-man" insurance on the lives of any of our officers or employees. The Company is subject to a number of competitive technologies as well as competition in the medical waste treatment disposal business in general. There are numerous methods of handling and disposing of RMW, of which our technology is one of the available systems. We are not aware of any competitive product that is similar to the MedClean Systems with respect to its design, compactness and customer-friendly use. We believe that our MedClean Systems, due to their ability to be used on-site, competitive costing and ease of use, offer a significant advantage over RMW systems offered by our competitors. Nevertheless, a different or new technology may supplant us in the market. Further, we might not be successful in the deployment of our systems in the marketplace, and other companies predominate in the waste removal business, with substantially greater resources and market visibility than us, may try to develop similar systems. Market Risks There is only a volatile limited market for our Common Stock. Recent history relating to the market prices of public companies indicates that, from time to time, there may be periods of extreme volatility in the market price of our securities because of factors unrelated to the operating performance of, or announcements concerning, the issuers of the affected stock, and especially for stock traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. In the last 52 week period, the Common Stock traded on the OTC Bulletin Board from a high closing price of $0.076 to a low of $0.001 per share. See "Market for our Common Stock." General market price declines, market volatility, especially for low priced securities, or factors related to the general economy or to us in the future could adversely affect the price of the common stock. With the low price of our Common Stock, any securities placement by us would be very dilutive to existing stockholders, thereby limiting the nature of future equity placements. We have never paid dividends and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the future. We do not believe that we will pay any cash dividends on our Common Stock in the future. We have never declared any cash dividends on our common stock, and if we were to become profitable, it would be expected that all of such earnings would be retained to support our business. Since we have no plan to pay cash dividends, an investor would only realize income from his investment in our shares if there is a rise in the market price of our Common Stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. 14 We are subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") has adopted regulations which generally define Penny Stocks to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. As of February 19, 2010, the closing price for our Common Stock was $0.0205 per share and therefore, it is designated a "Penny Stock." As a Penny Stock, our Common Stock may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), or the Penny Stock Rule. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors" (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. Our Common Stock might not qualify for exemption from the penny stock restrictions. In any event, even if our Common Stock were exempt from the Penny Stock restrictions, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Certain provisions of our charter could discourage potential acquisition proposals or change in control. Our Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, may issue preferred stock that would contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or which may prevent or frustrate any attempt by stockholders to replace or remove the current management. The issuance of additional shares of preferred stock could also adversely affect the voting power of the holders of Common Stock, including the loss of voting control to others. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 