ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in General Dynamics’ common stock or debt securities is subject to risks and uncertainties. Investors should consider the following factors, in addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase the company’s securities. Because three of General Dynamics’ four major business groups serve the defense market, the company’s sales are highly concentrated with the U.S. government. The customer relationship with the U.S. government involves certain risks that are unique. In addition to the U.S. government, the company’s defense businesses rapidly have expanded their sales to international customers in recent years, which has exposed the company to a different set of risks. The Aerospace group’s market presents its own risks that are largely tied to U.S. and global economic conditions. Despite the varying nature of the defense, international and business-aviation operations and the markets they serve, each shares some common risks, such as the ongoing development of high-technology products and the price, availability and quality of materials and suppliers. The company depends on the U.S. government for a significant portion of its sales. In each of the past three years, approximately 67 percent of the company’s net sales were to the U.S. government. U.S. defense spending has historically been cyclical. Defense budgets have received their strongest support when perceived threats to national security raise the level of concern over the country’s safety. As these threats subside, spending on the military tends to decrease. Accordingly, while Department of Defense funding has grown rapidly over the past few years, there is no assurance that this trend will continue. Rising budget deficits, the cost of the Global War on Terrorism and increasing costs for domestic programs continue to put pressure on all areas of discretionary spending, which could ultimately impact the defense budget. Wartime support for defense spending could wane if the country’s troop deployments in support of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan are reduced. A decrease in U.S. government defense spending or changes in spending allocation could result in one or more of the company’s programs being reduced, delayed or terminated. Reductions in the company’s existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could adversely affect its ability to sustain and grow its future sales and earnings. U.S. government contracts generally are not fully funded at inception and are subject to termination. The company’s U.S. government sales are funded by customer budgets, which operate on an October-to-September fiscal year. In February of each year, the President of the United States presents to the Congress the budget for the upcoming fiscal year. This budget proposes funding levels for every federal agency and is the result of months of policy and program reviews throughout the Executive branch. From February through September of each year, the appropriations and authorization committees of Congress review the President’s budget proposals and establish the funding levels for the upcoming fiscal year in appropriations and authorization legislation. Once these levels are enacted into law, the Executive Office of the President administers the funds to the agencies. There are two primary risks associated with this process. First, the process may be delayed or disrupted. Changes in congressional schedules, negotiations for program funding levels or unforeseen world events can interrupt the funding for a program or contract. This, in fact, occurred during the 2006 budget process, in which the defense appropriations bill was not approved until three months into the 2006 fiscal year, delaying contract orders that would have been awarded in 2005. Second, funds for multi-year contracts can be changed in subsequent years in the appropriations process. In addition, the U.S. government has increasingly relied on indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts and other procurement vehicles that are subject to a competitive bidding and funding process even after the award of the basic contract, adding an additional element of uncertainty to future funding levels. Delays in the funding process or changes in funding can impact the timing of available funds or can lead to changes in program content or termination at the government’s convenience. The loss of anticipated funding or the termination of multiple or large programs could have an adverse effect on the company’s future sales and earnings. The Aerospace group is subject to changing customer demand or preferences for business aircraft. The Aerospace group’s business-jet market is influenced in part by the capital goods sector and the demand for business-aviation products by U.S. and foreign businesses, the U.S. and other governments, and high-net-worth individuals. The group’s future results depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond the company’s control. These factors include general economic conditions and price and demand pressures in the market. A severe downturn in these market factors could adversely affect the sales and profitability of the company’s Aerospace group. The company’s earnings and margins depend on its ability to perform under its contracts. The company’s contracts require management to make various assumptions and projections about the outcome of future events over a period of several years. These projections can include future labor productivity and availability, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance, and the timing of product deliveries. If there is a significant change in one or more of these assumptions, circumstances or estimates, or if the company is unable to control the costs incurred in performing under these contracts, the profitability of one or more of these contracts may be adversely affected. General Dynamics 2005 Annual Report 13 Table of Contents The company’s earnings and margins depend on subcontractor performance and raw material and component availability and pricing. The company relies on subcontractors and other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for its products or to perform a portion of the services that the company provides to its customers. Occasionally, the company relies on only one or two sources of supply, which, if disrupted, could have an adverse effect on the company’s ability to meet its commitments to customers. The company depends on these subcontractors and vendors to fulfill their contractual obligations in a timely and satisfactory manner in full compliance with customer requirements. If one or more of the company’s subcontractors or suppliers is unable to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services, the company’s ability to perform its obligations as a prime contractor may be adversely affected. International sales and operations are subject to greater risks that sometimes are associated with doing business in foreign countries. The company’s international business may pose greater risks than its business in the United States because in some countries there is increased potential for changes in economic, legal and political environments. The company’s international business is also sensitive to changes in a foreign government’s national priorities and budgets. International transactions frequently involve increased financial and legal risks arising from foreign exchange rate variability and differing legal systems and customs in other countries. In addition, some international customers require contractors to agree to offset programs that may require in-country purchases or manufacturing or financial support arrangements as a condition to awarding contracts. The contracts may include penalties in the event the company fails to perform in accordance with the offset requirements. An unfavorable event or trend in any one or more of these factors could adversely affect the company’s sales and earnings associated with its international business. The company’s future success will depend, in part, on its ability to develop new technologies and maintain a qualified workforce to meet the needs of its customers. Virtually all of the products produced and sold by General Dynamics are highly engineered and require sophisticated manufacturing and system integration techniques and capabilities. Both the commercial and government markets in which the company operates are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. The product and program needs of the company’s government and commercial customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, the company’s future performance in part depends on its ability to identify emerging technological trends, develop and manufacture competitive products, and bring those products to market quickly at cost-effective prices. In addition, because of the highly specialized nature of its business, the company must be able to hire and retain the skilled and appropriately qualified personnel necessary to perform the services required by the company’s customers. If the company is unable to develop new products that meet customers’ changing needs or successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, future sales and earnings may be adversely affected. Developing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. While the company maintains insurance for some business risks, it is not possible to obtain coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. The company generally seeks indemnification where the U.S. government is permitted to extend indemnification under applicable law. In addition, the company generally seeks limitation of potential liability related to the sale and use of its homeland security products and services through qualification by the Department of Homeland Security under the SAFETY Act provisions of the Homeland Security Act of 2002. The company may elect to provide products or services even in instances where it is unable to obtain such indemnification or qualification. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management’s expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “believes,” “scheduled,” “estimates” and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These include but are not limited to projections of revenues, earnings, segment performance, cash flows, contract awards, aircraft production, deliveries and backlog stability. Forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual future results and trends may differ materially from what is forecast in forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the risk factors discussed in this section. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the company or any person acting on the company’s behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements in this section. The company does not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 General Dynamics 2005 Annual Report Table of Contents 