Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 1. “Business”. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report. Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that our businesses encounter can be found in the MD&A section and in the business descriptions in Item 1. “Business” of this Form 10-K Report. Below, we describe certain important operational and strategic risks. Our reactions to material future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments will affect our future results. (12) The unprecedented conditions in the financial and credit markets may affect the availability and cost of GE Capital’s funding. The financial and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption, putting downward pressure on financial and other asset prices generally and on the credit availability for certain issuers. The U.S. Government and the Federal Reserve Bank recently created a number of programs to help stabilize credit markets and financial institutions and restore liquidity. Many non-U.S. governments have also created or announced similar measures for institutions in their respective countries. These programs have improved conditions in the credit and financial markets, but there can be no assurance that these programs, individually or collectively, will continue to have beneficial effects on the markets overall, or will resolve the credit or liquidity issues of companies that participate in the programs. A large portion of GE Capital’s borrowings have been issued in the commercial paper and term debt markets. GE Capital has continued to issue commercial paper and, as planned, has reduced its outstanding commercial paper balance to $67 billion at the end of 2008. GE Capital has also issued term debt, mainly debt guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) and, to a lesser extent, on a non-guaranteed basis. Although the commercial paper and term debt markets have remained available to GE Capital to fund its operations and debt maturities, there can be no assurance that such markets will continue to be available or, if available, that the cost of such funding will not substantially increase. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, or if we cannot further reduce GE Capital’s asset levels as planned in 2009, we would seek to repay commercial paper and term debt as it becomes due or to meet our other liquidity needs by using the Federal Reserve’s Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF) and the TLGP, applying the net proceeds of our October 2008 equity offering and the investment by Berkshire Hathaway Inc., drawing upon contractually committed lending agreements primarily provided by global banks and/or seeking other sources of funding. There can be no assurance, however, that the TLGP and the CPFF will be extended beyond their scheduled expiration, or that, under such extreme market conditions, contractually committed lending agreements and other funding sources would be available or sufficient. Our 2009 funding plan anticipates approximately $45 billion of senior, unsecured long-term debt issuance. In January 2009, we completed issuances of $11.0 billion of funding under the TLGP. We also issued $5.1 billion in non-guaranteed senior, unsecured debt with a maturity of 30 years under the non-guarantee option of the TLGP. These issuances, along with the $13.4 billion of pre-funding done in December 2008, bring our aggregate issuances to $29.5 billion or 66% of our anticipated 2009 funding plan. Additionally, we anticipate that we will be 90% complete with our 2009 funding plan by June 30, 2009. Difficult conditions in the financial services markets have materially and adversely affected the business and results of operations of GE Capital and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. If these conditions continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover fully the value of certain assets such as goodwill and intangibles. In addition, although we have established allowances for losses in GE Capital’s portfolio of financing receivables that we believe are adequate, significant and unexpected further deterioration in the economy and in default and recovery rates could require us to increase these allowances and write-offs, which, depending on the amount of the increase, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. (13) The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect GE Capital. GE Capital has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose GE Capital to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, GE Capital’s credit risk may be increased when the collateral held by it cannot be realized upon sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. GE Capital also has exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments held in its investment portfolios. GE Capital has policies relating to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties (as described in Note 29 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report), which mitigate credit and liquidity risk. There can be no assurance, however, that any losses or impairments to the carrying value of financial assets would not materially and adversely affect GE Capital’s business, financial position and results of operations. The real estate markets in which GE Capital participates are highly uncertain. GE Capital participates in the commercial real estate market in two ways: it provides financing for the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of various types of properties and it also acquires an equity position in various types of properties. The profitability of real estate investments is largely dependent upon the specific geographic market in which the properties are located and the perceived value of that market at the time of sale. Such activity may vary significantly from one year to the next. Rising unemployment, a slowdown in general business activity and recent disruptions in the credit markets have adversely affected, and are expected to continue to adversely affect, the value of real estate assets GE Capital holds. Under current market and credit conditions, there can be no assurance as to the level of sales GE Capital will complete or the net sales proceeds it will realize. Also, there can be no assurance that occupancy rates and market rentals will continue at their current levels given the current economic environment during the period in which GE Capital continues to hold its equity investments in these properties which may result in an impairment to the carrying value of those investments. GE Capital is also a residential mortgage lender in certain geographic markets, particularly in the United Kingdom, that have been and may continue to be adversely affected by declines in residential real estate values and home sale volumes, job losses, consumer bankruptcies and other factors that may negatively impact the credit performance of our mortgage loans. Our allowance for loan losses on these mortgage loans is based on our analysis of current and historical delinquency and loan performance, as well as other management assumptions that may be inaccurate predictions of credit performance in this environment. There can be no assurance that, in this environment, credit performance will not be materially worse than anticipated and, as a result, materially and adversely affect GE Capital’s business, financial position and results of operations. Failure to maintain our “Triple-A” credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. In December 2008, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services affirmed our and GE Capital’s “AAA” long-term and “A-1+” short-term corporate credit ratings but revised its ratings outlook from stable to negative based partly on the concerns regarding GE Capital’s future performance and funding in light of capital market turmoil. On January 24, 2009, Moody’s Investment Services placed the long-term ratings of GE and GE Capital on review for possible downgrade. The firm’s “Prime-1” short-term ratings were affirmed. Moody’s said the review for downgrade is based primarily upon heightened uncertainty regarding GE Capital’s asset quality and earnings performance in future periods. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the difficult financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our 2009 operational and funding plan for GE Capital or, in the event of further deterioration in the financial markets, that completion of our plan and any other steps we might take in response will be sufficient to allow us to maintain our “Triple-A” ratings. Failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. Various debt instruments, guarantees and covenants would require posting additional capital or collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade, but none are triggered if our ratings are reduced to AA-/Aa3 or A-1+/P-1 or higher. (14) Current conditions in the global economy and the major industries we serve also may materially and adversely affect the business and results of operations of our non-financial businesses. The business and operating results of our technology infrastructure, energy infrastructure, consumer and industrial and media businesses have been and will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions and, in particular, conditions in the air and rail transportation, energy generation, healthcare, network television and other major industries we serve. As a result of slowing global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, increased unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, fluctuating commodity prices, bankruptcies and other challenges currently affecting the global economy, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services, including large infrastructure projects, and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. Contract cancellations could affect our ability to fully recover our contract costs and estimated earnings. Further, our vendors may be experiencing similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. Although the new Administration in the United States is expected to enact various economic stimulus programs, there can be no assurance as to the timing and effectiveness of these programs. If the global economic slowdown continues for a significant period or there is significant further deterioration in the global economy, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our global growth is subject to economic and political risks. We conduct our operations in virtually every part of the world. In 2008, approximately 53% of our revenues were attributable to activities outside the United States. Our operations are subject to the effects of global competition. They are also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful, and our ability to engage in such mitigation has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. The success of our business depends on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions. With respect to acquisitions and mergers, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates at terms acceptable to us, or may not achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of integration challenges, such as personnel and technology. We will continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner (as was the case with our Consumer & Industrial business in 2008), which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives. Alternatively, we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated. These difficulties have been exacerbated in the current financial and credit environment because some potential sellers may hold onto assets pending a rebound in prices and buyers may have difficulty obtaining the necessary financing. In addition, there is a risk that we may sell a business whose subsequent performance exceeds our expectations, in which case our decision would have potentially sacrificed enterprise value. There are risks inherent in owning our common stock. The market price and volume of our common stock have been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. These may arise from general stock market conditions, the impact of the risk factors described above on our financial condition and results of operations, a change in sentiment in the market regarding us or our business prospects or from other factors. Changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect the value of our common stock. (15) We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. Our businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state and foreign laws, regulations and policies. There can be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions, laws and regulations will not be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business models and objectives or affect our returns on investment by making existing practices more restricted, subject to escalating costs or prohibited outright. In particular, we expect U.S. and foreign governments to undertake a substantial review and revision of the regulation and supervision of bank and non-bank financial institutions and tax laws and regulation, which may have a significant effect on GE Capital’s structure, operations and performance. We are also subject to regulatory risks from laws that reduce the allowable lending rate or limit consumer borrowing, local liquidity regulations that may increase the risk of not being able to retrieve assets, and changes to tax law that may affect our return on investments. For example, GE’s effective tax rate is reduced because active business income earned and indefinitely reinvested outside the United States is taxed at less than the U.S. rate. A significant portion of this reduction depends upon a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of U.S. tax on certain active financial services income until that income is repatriated to the United States as a dividend. This provision is consistent with international tax norms and permits U.S. financial services companies to compete more effectively with foreign banks and other foreign financial institutions in global markets. This provision, currently scheduled to expire at the end of 2009, has been scheduled to expire and has been extended by Congress on five previous occasions, including in October of 2008, but there can be no assurance that it will continue to be extended. In the event this provision is not extended after 2009, the current U.S. tax imposed on active financial services income earned outside the United States would increase, making it more difficult for U.S. financial services companies to compete in global markets. If this provision is not extended, we expect our effective tax rate to increase significantly after 2010. We are subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance risks. We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks. We and our subsidiaries, our businesses and the industries in which we operate are at times being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. These include investigations by the Department of Justice Antitrust Division and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) of the marketing and sales of guaranteed investment contracts, and other financial instruments, to municipalities by certain subsidiaries of GE Capital and an investigation by the SEC of possible violations of the securities laws with respect to certain accounting issues, as described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K Report. Additionally, we and our subsidiaries are involved in a sizable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. These include the dredging of polychlorinated biphenyls from a 40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York State, as described in Item 1. “Business” of this Form 10-K Report. We are also subject to certain other legal proceedings described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K Report. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that legal compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time. Significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could affect our results of operations, equity, and pension contributions in future periods. Our results of operations may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of income or expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may change based on changes in key economic indicators. The most significant year-end assumptions we used to estimate pension income or expense for 2009 are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plans assets. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase to Accumulated gains (losses) – net, Benefit plans. At the end of 2008, the projected benefit obligation of our U.S. principal pension plans was $45.1 billion and assets were $40.7 billion. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see Critical Accounting Estimates – Pension Assumptions in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report. Although GAAP expense and pension funding contributions are not directly related, key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to pension plans as required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. (16) Item 