Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 1. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference in this report. Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that our businesses encounter can be found in the MD&A section of our 2006 Annual Report to Shareowners and in the business descriptions in Item 1. of this Form 10-K. Below, we have described certain important strategic risks. Our reactions to material future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments will determine our future results. Our global growth is subject to a number of economic and political risks We conduct our operations in virtually every part of the world. Global economic developments affect businesses such as ours in many ways. Operations are subject to the effects of global competition. Our global business is affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. Our credit ratings are important to our cost of capital The major debt agencies routinely evaluate our debt and have given their highest debt ratings to us. One of our strategic objectives is to maintain these “Triple A” ratings as they serve to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate our access to a variety of lenders. Failure to maintain our Triple A debt rating could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins. (16) The success of our business depends on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions With respect to acquisitions and mergers, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates at terms acceptable to us, or may not achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of integration challenges, such as personnel and technology. We will continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms, which are less than we had anticipated. In addition, there is a risk that we sell a business whose subsequent performance exceeds our expectations, in which case our decision would have potentially sacrificed enterprise value. Correspondingly, we may be too optimistic about a particular business’s prospects, in which case we may be unable to find a buyer at a price acceptable to us and therefore may have potentially sacrificed enterprise value. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations Our businesses are subject to regulation by U.S. federal and state laws and foreign laws, regulations and policies. Changes to laws or regulations may even require us to modify our business objectives if existing practices become more restricted, subject to escalating costs or prohibited outright. Particular risks include regulatory risks arising from local laws, such as laws which reduce the allowable lending rate or limit consumer borrowing, and from local liquidity regulations, that may increase the risks of not being able to retrieve assets and changes to tax law which may affect our return on investments. Our business and the industries in which we operate are also at times being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Changes in the real estate markets are highly uncertain We provide financing for the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of various types of properties. We also consider opportunities to buy and sell properties which may result in significant outlays or proceeds of cash, either individually or in the aggregate. The profitability of real estate investments is largely dependent upon the specific geographic market in which they are located and the perceived value of that market at the time of sale. We may have difficulty optimizing that mix and such activity may vary significantly from one year to the next. (17) Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 