Item 1A. Risk Factors. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED LOSSES FROM OPERATIONS AND MAY NOT BE PROFITABLE IN THE FUTURE. The Company experienced significant losses for the year ended September 30, 2013. There can be no assurance that the Company will not incur losses in the future. The Company’s operating expenses have increased as the business has grown and can be expected to increase significantly because of expansion efforts. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to generate sufficient revenue to meet its operating expenditures or continue to operate profitably. RECENT GLOBAL TRENDS IN THE FINANCIAL MARKETS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. Recent global economic conditions, including disruption of financial markets, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, primarily through limiting our access to credit, our ability to refinance debt and disrupting our customers’ businesses, which are heavily dependent on retail and e-commerce transactions. Although we currently believe that we will be able to obtain the necessary financing in the future, there is no assurance that these institutions will be able to loan us the necessary capital, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, continuation or worsening of general market conditions in the United States economy important to our businesses may adversely affect our customers’ level of spending, ability to obtain financing for purchases and ability to make timely payments to us for our services, which could require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, negatively impact our days sales outstanding and adversely affect our results of operations. WE DEPEND ON ATTRACTING, INTEGRATING, MANAGING, AND RETAINING QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, integrate, manage and retain personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to fulfill our clients’ needs. Our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel could be impaired by any diminution of our reputation, decrease in compensation levels relative to our competitors or modifications to our total compensation philosophy or competitor hiring programs. If we cannot attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Our future success also depends upon our ability to manage the performance of our personnel. Failure to successfully manage the performance of our personnel could affect our profitability by causing operating inefficiencies that could increase operating expenses and reduce operating income. ONE OF OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS, TOGETHER WITH HIS AFFILIATES, CONTROLS A MAJORITY OF THE COMBINED VOTING POWER OF OUR COMMON STOCK, WHICH MAY GIVE RISE TO CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS. Michael Schroering, our former Chief Executive Officer and current director, together with his affiliates, control approximately 70% of the Company’s voting shares outstanding. As a result, Mr. Schroering and his affiliates are able to control all matters requiring the Company’s shareholders’ approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, and could deprive the Company’s shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of the Company or its assets. The interests of Mr. Schroering and his affiliates may not always coincide with your interests or the interests of other shareholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other shareholders. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY. Competition in the market for placement and staffing services is intense. The Company faces competition from many larger, more established companies. In addition, other companies could seek to introduce competing services and increased competition could result in a decrease in the price charged by the Company’s competitors for their services or reduce demand for the Company’s products and services, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully with its existing or potential competitors, which may have substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources, longer operating histories, greater name recognition or more established relationships in the industry than the Company. If any of these competitors provides competitive services to the marketplace in the future, the Company cannot be sure that it will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully. 3 Table of Contents CHANGES IN GOVERNMENT REGULATION COULD LIMIT OUR GROWTH OR RESULT IN ADDITIONAL COSTS OF DOING BUSINESS. We are subject to the same federal, state and local laws as other companies conducting placement and staffing services, which is extensive. The adoption or modification of laws related to the placement and staffing industry, such as the Healthcare for America Plan, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition by increasing our costs and administrative burdens. INTERRUPTION OF THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS COULD RESULT FROM INCREASED SECURITY MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO TERRORISM. The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and the ongoing military action and heightened security measures in response to such threat has and may cause significant disruption to commerce. The U.S. economy in general is being adversely affected by terrorist activities and potential activities. Any economic downturn could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, impair the Company’s ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s ability to grow the business. It is impossible to predict how this may affect the Company’s business or the economy in the U.S. and in the world. In the event of further threats or acts of terrorism, the Company’s business and operations may be severely and adversely affected or destroyed. SUBSTANTIAL ALTERATION OF THE COMPANY’S CURRENT BUSINESS AND REVENUE MODEL COULD HURT SHORT-TERM RESULTS. The Company’s present business and revenue model represents the current view of the optimal business and revenue structure, which is to derive revenues and achieve profitability in the shortest period. There can be no assurance that current models will not be altered significantly or replaced with an alternative model that is driven by motivations other than near-term revenues and/or profitability (for example, building market share before the Company’s competitors). Any such alteration or replacement of the business and revenue model may ultimately result in the deferring of certain revenues in favor of potentially establishing larger market share. The Company cannot assure that any adjustment or change in the business and revenue model will prove to be successful. THE REQUIREMENTS OF BEING A PUBLIC COMPANY MAY STRAIN OUR RESOURCES AND DISTRACT MANAGEMENT. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). These requirements are extensive. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements and costs associated with applicable corporate governance requirements. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to significantly increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 4 Table of Contents FAILURE TO ACHIEVE AND MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. IN ADDITION, CURRENT AND POTENTIAL STOCKHOLDERS COULD LOSE CONFIDENCE IN OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK PRICE. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time; we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We cannot provide assurance as to the result of these efforts. We cannot be certain that any measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED A SIGNIFICANT CHANGE IN THE COMPOSITION OF OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT, INCLUDING THE DEPARTURE OF OUR FORMER CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, AND PRESIDENT. FAILURE OF ANY NEW MANAGEMENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEMBERS TO INTEGRATE THEMSELVES INTO, AND EFFECTIVELY MANAGE, OUR BUSINESS COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL HARM TO THE COMPANY. On February 22, 2013, Jarett A. Misch, our former Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer resigned from all positions with the Company. On January 31, 2013, Herbert F. Imhoff Jr., our former President and a director, retired from all positions with the Company. On December 26, 2012, Salvatore J. Zizza, our former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, retired from all positions with the Company, and Mr. Schroering was appointed by the Board as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Mr. Schroering resigned his position as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors on November 3, 2013, however remains as a Board of Directors member. On October 2, 2012, Edward O. Hunter was appointed to the Board of Directors to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Charles W.B. Wardell III on September 4, 2012. Andrew J. Norstrud was appointed Chief Financial Officer on March 29, 2013, and subsequently has assumed the Principle Executive Officer role upon Michael Schroering’s resignation. The failure of our directors or any new members of management to perform effectively or the loss of any of the directors or members of management could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our Board of Directors and management may institute strategies that differ from those we are applying currently. If any new strategies are adopted, it may take management a significant amount of time to fully implement such new strategies. If any new strategies are unsuccessful or if we are unable to execute them successfully, there could be a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents WE HAVE NOT REGISTERED WITH THE SEC OR LISTED WITH THE NYSE MKT, THE SHARES UNDERLYING OPTIONS ISSUED UNDER OUR 2011 INCENTIVE PLAN. We have issued options to purchase 1.3 million shares of our common stock under the 2011 Incentive Plan, all of which are fully vested and exercisable. We have not yet filed a registration statement on Form S-8, registering the shares underlying such options, nor have we listed such shares with the NYSE MKT. If we do not register these shares, the Company may be subject to civil or other penalties (including sanctions) by regulatory authorities and/or shareholders for certain violations of federal or state securities laws. We may also be subject to the suspension of trading in, or removal from listing from, the NYSE MKT for failure to comply with the NYSE MKT listing agreement. WE ARE NOT CURRENTLY IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE NYSE MKT LLC’S REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND FAILURE TO REGAIN AND MAINTAIN COMPLIANCE WITH THIS STANDARD COULD RESULT IN DELISTING AND ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE AND LIQUIDITY OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND OUR ABILITY TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE MKT LLC (“NYSE MKT”). Companies trading on the NYSE MKT must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Exchange Act and must be current in their reports filed under Section 13 of the Exchange Act. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the NYSE MKT. On January 17, 2013 and February 21, 2013, the Company received notices from the NYSE MKT staff indicating that the Company is below certain of the NYSE MKT’s continued listing standards due to the Company’s delinquency in filing its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, and the delinquency in filing its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2012, as set forth in sections 134 and 1101 of the NYSE MKT Company Guide. The Company was afforded the opportunity to submit a plan of compliance to the NYSE MKT and on January 31, 2013, presented its plan for both reports to the NYSE MKT. On March 5, 2013, the NYSE MKT notified the Company that it accepted the Company’s plan of compliance and granted the Company an extension until April 17, 2013, to regain compliance with the continued listing standards. The Company has since become compliant will all delinquencies in filings. On June 6, 2013, the Company received a letter from NYSE MKT which stated, among other things, that the Company has equity less than $4 million and has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years and, in the opinion of NYSE MKT, it is questionable as to whether the Company will be able to continue operations and/or meet its obligations as they mature based on its current overall financial condition, pursuant to Sections 1003(a)(ii) and 1003(a)(iv) of the NYSE MKT's Company Guide, respectively. The Company was afforded the opportunity to submit a plan of compliance to the NYSE MKT and on July 8, 2013, presented its plan to correct its deficiencies related to Sections 1003(a)(ii) and 1003(a)(iv) of the NYSE MKT's Company Guide. On August 27, 2013, NYSE MKT notified the Company that it accepted the Company's plan of compliance and granted the Company an extension until October 7, 2013, to obtain the necessary financing to provide the necessary cash flow to continue operations and/or meet its obligations as they mature and until June 6, 2014, to have the required $4 million in equity. On October 29, 2013, the Company received a letter from the NYSE MKT stating that, based on the review of the information provided by the Company, the Company has made significant progress towards regaining compliance with Section 1003(a)(iv) of the Company Guide. Based on the Company’s progress to date and actions the Company plans to implement in the future, in accordance with Section 1009 of the Company Guide, the NYSE MKT has determined to extend the Financial Impairment Plan Period until February 21, 2014. The foregoing is subject to the Company making a public announcement by November 4, 2013, continuing to provide updates to the NYSE MKT staff and continuing to show progress in regaining compliance. The plan period for the Company to regain compliance with Section 1003(a)(ii) remains June 6, 2014. On November 4, 2013, a press release announcing the acceptance by the NYSE MKT LLC of the plan was issued. 6 Table of Contents VOLATILITY OF THE MARKET PRICE OF THE COMPANY’S STOCK IS LIKELY TO OCCUR DUE TO THE LOW TRADING VOLUME OF OUR STOCK. The market price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Any of the following factors could affect the market price of our common stock: · Changes in earnings estimates and outlook by financial analysts; · Our failure to meet investors’ performance expectations; · General market and economic conditions; and · Our small trading volume. ACCORDING TO THE SEC, THE MARKET FOR PENNY STOCKS HAS SUFFERED FROM PATTERNS OF FRAUD AND ABUSE. Such patterns include: · Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker–dealers that are often related to thepromoter or issuer; · Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false andmisleading press releases; · “Boiler room” practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections byinexperienced sales persons; · Excessive and undisclosed bid–ask differentials and markups by selling broker–dealers; and · The wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker–dealers after prices havebeenmanipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices withconsequentinvestor losses. In addition, many of the risks described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section could adversely affect the Company’s stock price. The stock markets have experienced price and volume volatility that have affected many companies’ stock prices. Stock prices for many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These types of fluctuations may affect the market price of our common stock. APPLICABILITY OF LOW PRICED STOCK RISK DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS COULD DISCOURAGE BROKERS FROM MAKING A MARKET IN OUR STOCK. The Company’s common stock may be considered a low priced security under rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers participating in transactions in low priced securities must first deliver a risk disclosure document which describes that risks associated with such stock, the broker-dealer’s duties, the customer’s rights and remedies, and certain market and other information, and make a suitability determination approving the customer for low priced stock transactions based on the customer’s financial situation, investment experience and objectives. Broker-dealers must also disclose these restrictions in writing and provide monthly account statements to the customer, and obtain specific written consent of the customer. With these restrictions, the likely effect of designation as a low price stock would be to decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to make a market for the stock, to decrease the liquidity of the stock and to increase the transaction costs of sales and purchase of such stocks compared to other securities. NO DIVIDENDS ANTICIPATED. The Company intends to retain all future earnings for use in the development of the Company’s business and does not anticipate paying any cash dividends on the Common Stock in the near future. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN THE NECESSARY ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO ACHIEVE OUR STRATEGIC GOALS. On September 27, 2013, the Company entered into agreements with Keltic Financial Partners II LP (“Keltic”) that provide the Company with long term financing through a six million dollar ($6,000,000) secured revolving note (the “Note”). The Note has a term of three years and has no amortization prior to maturity. The interest rate for the Note is a fluctuating rate that, when annualized, is equal to the greatest of (A) the Prime Rate plus three and one quarter percent (3.25%), (B) the LIBOR Rate plus six and one quarter percent (6.25%), and (C) six and one half percent (6.50%), interest is paid on a monthly basis. Loan advances pursuant to the Note are based on the accounts receivable balance and other assets. Upon execution of the Note, approximately three million fifty thousand dollars ($3,050,000) was advanced for the full repayment of debt owed to Wells Fargo and fees from Wells Fargo related to the early termination of their debt agreement. At the time of close, there was approximately nine hundred thousand ($900,000) of availability under the new Note in excess of amounts paid to extinguish the debt and fees with Wells Fargo. The Company expects to incur certain cash expense and commitment fees related to obtaining the agreement of approximately $170,000, which has been paid prior to the closing of the Note or will be paid over the next six months. The Note is secured by all of the Company’s property and assets, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible, and whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or in which it now has or at any time in the future may acquire any right, title or interests. 7 Table of Contents There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain any additional financing that may be required to continue to expand our business. Our continued viability depends on our ability to raise capital. Changes in economic, regulatory or competitive conditions may lead to cost increases. Management may also determine that it is in our best interest to expand more rapidly than currently intended, to expand marketing activities, to develop new or enhance existing services or products, to respond to competitive pressures or to acquire complementary services, businesses or technologies. In any such case or other change of circumstance, additional financing will be necessary. If any additional financing is required, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain such additional financing on terms acceptable to us and at times required by us, if at all. In such event, we may be required to materially alter our business plan or curtail all or a part of our expansion plans. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MANAGE EXPECTED GROWTH AND INTERNAL EXPANSION. We have not yet undergone the significant managerial and internal expansion that we expect will occur, and our inability to manage growth could hurt our results of operations. Expansion of our operations will be required to address anticipated growth of our customer base and market opportunities. Expansion will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Currently, we have a limited number of employees. We will need to improve existing procedures and controls as well as implement new transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our failure to manage growth effectively could have a damaging effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 