Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur businesses face many risks and uncertainties, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We believe that the most significant of the risks and uncertainties that we face are described below. This Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.Risks Related to RegulationOur business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by regulations to which we are subject as a result of our bank holding company status.We are a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act). Many of the regulatory requirements to which we are subject as a bank holding company were not previously applicable to us and have and will continue to require significant expense and devotion of resources to fully implement necessary policies and procedures to ensure compliance. Compliance with such laws and regulations involves substantial costs and may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Recent events, particularly in the financial and real estate markets, have resulted in bank regulatory agencies placing increased focus and scrutiny on participants in the financial services industry, including us. For a description of our regulatory requirements, see Certain Regulatory Matters in Item 1. Business.Ally is subject to ongoing supervision, examination and regulation by the FRB, and Ally Bank by the FDIC and the Utah DFI, in each case, through regular examinations and other means that allow the regulators to gauge management's ability to identify, assess, and control risk in all areas of operations in a safe-and-sound manner and to ensure compliance with laws and regulations. Ally is currently required by its banking supervisors to make improvements in areas such as board and senior management oversight, risk management, regulatory reporting, internal audit planning, capital adequacy process, stress testing, and Bank Secrecy Act / anti-money-laundering compliance, and to continue to reduce problem assets. Separately, Ally Bank is currently required by its banking supervisors to make improvements in areas such as compliance management and training, consumer protection monitoring, consumer complaint resolution, internal audit program and residential mortgage loan pricing, and fee monitoring. These requirements are judicially enforceable, and if we are unable to implement and maintain these required actions, plans, policies and procedures in a timely and effective manner and otherwise comply with the requirements outlined above, we could become subject to formal supervisory actions which could subject us to significant restrictions on our existing business or on our ability to develop any new business. Such forms of supervisory action could include, without limitation, written agreements, cease and desist orders, and consent orders and may, among other things, result in restrictions on our ability to pay dividends, requirements to increase capital, restrictions on our activities, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, and enforcement of such action through injunctions or restraining orders. We could also be required to dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period. The terms of any such supervisory action could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating flexibility, financial condition, and results of operations.Our ability to engage in certain activities may be adversely affected by our status as a bank holding company.As a bank holding company, Ally's activities are generally limited to banking or to managing or controlling banks or to other activities deemed closely related to banking or otherwise permissible under the BHC Act and related regulations. Likewise, subject to certain exceptions, Ally is not permitted to acquire more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any nonaffiliated bank or bank holding company, directly or indirectly, or to acquire control of any other company, directly or indirectly (including by acquisition of 25% or more of a class of voting shares). Upon our bank holding company approval, we were permitted an initial two-year grace period to bring our activities and investments into conformity with these restrictions. This grace period expired in December 2010. The FRB initially granted a one-year extension that expired in December 2011, and recently granted a second one-year extension that expires in December 2012. We will be 11Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Kpermitted to apply to the FRB for one additional one-year extension. Certain of Ally's existing activities and investments, including most of our insurance activities and our SmartAuction vehicle remarketing services for third parties, are deemed impermissible under the BHC Act and must be terminated or disposed of by the expiration of this extension and any additional extensions. While some of these activities may be continued if Ally is able to convert to a financial holding company under the BHC Act, Ally may be unable to satisfy the requirements to enable it to convert to a financial holding company prior to that time, and activities, businesses, or investments that would be permissible for a financial holding company will need to be terminated or disposed of. The FRB may also decline to grant any additional requested extensions, and Ally may be obligated to terminate or dispose of any impermissible activities, businesses, or investments more quickly than anticipated or under terms that are unfavorable to us. Either situation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position.As a bank holding company, our ability to expand into new business activities would require us to obtain the prior approval of the relevant banking supervisors. There can be no assurance that any required approval will be obtained or that we will be able to execute on any such plans in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to obtain approval to expand into new business activities, our business, results of operations, and financial position may be materially adversely affected.Our business and financial condition could be further adversely affected as a result of issues relating to mortgage foreclosures, home sales, and evictions in certain states and our entry into a related consent order.Representatives of federal and state governments, including the United States Department of Justice, the FRB, the FDIC, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and law enforcement authorities in all 50 states, have been investigating the procedures followed by mortgage servicing companies and banks, including subsidiaries of Ally, in connection with mortgage foreclosure home sales and evictions. In connection with this, on February 9, 2012, we reached an agreement in principle with the federal government and 49 state attorneys general with respect to these matters, which resulted in a charge of approximately $230 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. This agreement in principle is subject to ongoing discussions among the parties and the completion of definitive documentation, as well as required regulatory and court approvals. It is possible that Ally or its subsidiaries could become subject to further penalties, sanctions, or other adverse actions related to these matters, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.On December 1, 2011, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts filed an enforcement action in the Suffolk County Superior Court against GMAC Mortgage and several other lender/servicers. The Commonwealth claims that certain aspects of defendants' foreclosure processes are unlawful, that defendants do not always process loan modification accurately, and that defendants' use of the Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems (MERS) has damaged the integrity of the Commonwealth's Torrens recording system. The Commonwealth seeks civil penalties, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys' fees. In connection with the settlement with the federal government and state attorneys general announced on February 9, 2012, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts agreed to settle all servicing-related claims asserted in this action and to certain limits on monetary damages, if any. However, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts continues to pursue claims related to MERS and certain foreclosure-related matters.As a result of an examination conducted by the FRB and FDIC, on April 13, 2011, each of Ally, Ally Bank, Residential Capital, LLC and GMAC Mortgage, LLC (collectively, the Ally Entities) entered into a Consent Order (the Consent Order) with the FRB and the FDIC. The Consent Order requires the Ally Entities to make improvements to various aspects of our residential mortgage loan-servicing business, including compliance programs, internal audit, communications with borrowers, vendor management, management information systems, employee training, and oversight by the boards of the Ally Entities. We estimate that incremental costs to the applicable mortgage companies for implementation and ongoing compliance related to these matters to be approximately $40 million annually during 2012 and 2013, and then reducing over time. The majority of these incremental annual costs are for additional servicing personnel, enhancements to information systems, vendor management, costs to comply with MERS requirements, and increased audit and compliance costs.The Consent Order further requires GMAC Mortgage, LLC to retain independent consultants to conduct a risk assessment related to mortgage servicing activities and, separately, to conduct a review of certain past residential mortgage foreclosure actions (Foreclosure Review). Based on current expectations, we estimate total costs to the applicable mortgage companies related to the Foreclosure Review to be up to $200 million, but it is possible that costs could be higher, particularly if the scope of the Foreclosure Review is expanded. We expect the majority of these costs to be incurred in 2012, although it is possible that such costs could be incurred over a longer period of time.We cannot estimate the ultimate impact of any deficiencies that have been or may be identified in the historical foreclosure procedures of certain of our mortgage subsidiaries (Mortgage Companies). There are potential risks related to these matters that extend beyond potential liability on individual foreclosure actions. Specific risks could include, for example, claims and litigation related to foreclosure remediation and resubmission; claims from investors that hold securities that become adversely impacted by continued delays in the foreclosure process, the reduction in foreclosure proceeds due to delay, or by challenges to completed foreclosure sales to the extent, if any, not covered by title insurance obtained in connection with such sales; actions by courts, state attorneys general, or regulators to delay further the foreclosure process after submission of corrected affidavits, or to facilitate claims by borrowers alleging that they were harmed by our foreclosure practices (by, for example, foreclosing without offering an appropriate range of alternative home preservation options); additional regulatory fines, sanctions, and other additional costs; and reputational risks. To date we have borne all out-of-pocket costs associated with the remediation rather than passing any such costs through to investors for whom we service the related mortgages, and we expect that we will continue to do so.12Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KOur ability to execute our business strategy may be affected by regulatory considerations.Our business strategy for Ally Bank, which is primarily focused on automotive lending and growth of our direct-channel deposit business, is subject to regulatory oversight from a safety and soundness perspective. If our banking supervisors raise concerns regarding any aspect of our business strategy for Ally Bank, we may be obliged to alter our strategy, which could include moving certain activities, such as certain types of lending, outside of Ally Bank to one of our nonbanking affiliates. Alternative funding sources outside of Ally Bank, such as asset securitization or financings in the capital markets, could be more expensive than funding through Ally Bank and could adversely effect our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition.We are subject to new capital planning and systemic risk regimes, which impose significant restrictions and requirements.Effective December 2011, the FRB requires bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, such as Ally, to submit annual capital plans for FRB non-objection. In the absence of a non-objection regarding the capital plan, the new regulation prohibits such bank holding companies from paying dividends or making certain other capital distributions without a specific FRB non-objection to such action. Even if a bank holding company receives a non-objection to its capital plan, it may not pay a dividend or make certain other capital distributions without FRB approval under certain circumstances (e.g., after giving effect to the dividend or distribution, the bank holding company would not meet a minimum regulatory capital ratio or a Tier 1 common ratio of at least 5%) and subject to certain exceptions. Ally submitted its first capital plan in January 2012, and it is unknown whether the FRB will accept Ally's plan as submitted or require revisions.In addition, in December 2011, the FRB proposed rules to implement certain provisions of the systemic risk regime under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act). If adopted as proposed, among other provisions, the rules would require Ally to maintain a sufficient quantity of highly liquid assets to survive a projected 30-day liquidity stress event and implement various liquidity-related corporate governance measures; limit Ally's aggregate exposure to any unaffiliated counterparty to 25% of Ally's capital and surplus; and potentially subject Ally to an early remediation regime that could limit the ability of Ally to pay dividends or expand its business if the FRB identified Ally as suffering from financial or management weaknesses. The systemic risk provisions, when implemented, could adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations, and financial condition.Our ability to rely on deposits as a part of our funding strategy may be limited.Ally Bank continues to be a key part of our funding strategy, and we have increased our reliance on deposits as an alternative source of funding through Ally Bank. Ally Bank does not have a retail branch network, and it obtains its deposits through direct banking and brokered deposits which, at December 31, 2011, included $9.9 billion of brokered certificates of deposit that may be more price sensitive than other types of deposits and may become less available if alternative investments offer higher interest rates. Our ability to maintain our current level of deposits or grow our deposit base could be affected by regulatory restrictions including the possible imposition of prior approval requirements, restrictions on deposit growth, or restrictions on our rates offered. In addition, perceptions of our financial strength, rates offered by third parties, and other competitive factors beyond our control, including returns on alternative investments, will also impact our ability to grow our deposit base. As we have established the Ally Bank brand and increased our retail deposit base over the past few years, we have reduced offered rates on new retail deposits. However, a strategy of continuing to offer reduced rates in the future could limit our ability to further grow or maintain deposits. Even if we are able to grow the deposit base of Ally Bank, our regulators may impose restrictions on our ability to use Ally Bank deposits as a source of funding for certain business activities potentially raising the cost of funding those activities without the use of Ally Bank deposits.The FDIC has indicated that it expects Ally to diversify Ally Bank's overall funding and to focus on reducing Ally Bank's overall funding costs including the interest rates paid on Ally Bank deposits. See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity Management, Funding, and Regulatory Capital-Funding Strategy in Item 7. for additional information about these diversification activities. As stated above, over the past few years, we have reduced rates on retail deposits, as well as introduced new products, resulting in lower cost of funds for deposits. However, it is possible that further reductions of rates on retail deposits could limit Ally Bank's ability to grow or maintain deposits, which could have a material adverse impact on the funding and capital position of Ally.The regulatory environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings.Our domestic operations are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions relating to supervision and regulation by state and federal authorities. Such regulation and supervision are primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers, not for the benefit of investors in our securities, and could limit our discretion in operating our business. Noncompliance with applicable statutes, regulations, rules, or policies could result in the suspension or revocation of any license or registration at issue as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties.Ally, Ally Bank, and many of our nonbank subsidiaries are heavily regulated by bank and other regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. This regulatory oversight is established to protect depositors, the FDIC's Deposit Insurance Fund, and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Changes to statutes, regulations, rules, or policies including the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, rules, or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer, limiting our ability to pursue acquisitions and increasing the ability of third parties to offer competing financial services and products.13Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KOur operations are also heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the United States. For example, certain of our foreign subsidiaries operate either as a bank or a regulated finance company, and our insurance operations are subject to various requirements in the foreign markets in which we operate. The varying requirements of these jurisdictions may be inconsistent with U.S. rules and may materially adversely affect our business or limit necessary regulatory approvals, or if approvals are obtained, we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. In addition, in many countries, the regulations applicable to the financial services industry are uncertain and evolving.Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market with regard to the affected product and on our reputation generally. No assurance can be given that applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted, or that we will not be prohibited by local laws or regulators from raising interest rates above certain desired levels, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating flexibility, financial condition, or results of operations.Financial services legislative and regulatory reforms may have a significant impact on our business and results of operations.The Dodd-Frank Act became law in July 2010. Portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, but many provisions will only be effective after the adoption of implementing regulations, which have been delayed in numerous cases. The Dodd-Frank Act, when fully implemented, will have material implications for Ally and the entire financial services industry. Among other things, it will or potentially could:•result in Ally being subject to enhanced oversight and scrutiny as a result of being a bank holding company with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets;•result in the appointment of the FDIC as receiver of Ally in an orderly liquidation proceeding if the Secretary of Treasury, upon recommendation of two-thirds of the FRB and the FDIC and in consultation with the President of the United States, finds Ally to be in default or danger of default;•affect the levels of capital and liquidity with which Ally must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels;•subject Ally to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the FDIC;•impact Ally's ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities;•impact a number of Ally's business and risk management strategies;•restrict the revenue that Ally generates from certain businesses; and•subject Ally to a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which has very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities.As the Dodd-Frank Act requires that many studies be conducted and that hundreds of regulations be written in order to fully implement it, the full impact of this legislation on Ally, its business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time and may not be known for a number of years. In addition, regulations may impact us differently in comparison to other more established financial institutions. However, these impacts are expected to be substantial and some of them are likely to adversely affect Ally and its financial performance. The extent to which Ally can adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not knowable at this time.Our business may be adversely affected upon our implementation of the revised capital requirements under the Basel III capital rules.The Bank for International Settlements' Basel Committee on Banking Supervision recently adopted new capital, leverage, and liquidity guidelines under the Basel Accord (Basel III), which when implemented in the United States, may have the effect of raising capital requirements beyond those required by current law and the Dodd-Frank Act. Basel III increases (i) the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio from 2.0% to 4.5%, net of regulatory deductions, and introduces a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5% of common equity to risk-weighted assets, raising the target minimum common equity ratio to 7.0% and (ii) the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.5% inclusive of the capital conservation buffer, increases the minimum total capital ratio to 10.5% inclusive of the capital buffer, and introduces a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of common equity or other fully loss absorbing capital for periods of excess credit growth. Basel III also introduces a nonrisk adjusted Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3% based on a measure of the total exposure rather than total assets and new liquidity standards. The Basel III capital, leverage, and liquidity standards will be phased in over a multiyear period. The Basel III rules, when implemented, will also impose a 15% cap on the amount of Tier 1 capital that can be met, in the aggregate, through significant investments in the common shares of unconsolidated financial subsidiaries, mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), and deferred tax assets through timing differences, as well as a 10% cap on the amount of each of the three individual items that may be included in Tier 1 capital. In addition, under Basel III rules, after a 10-year phase-out period beginning in January 2013, trust preferred and other “hybrid” securities will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital. However, under the Dodd-Frank Act, subject to certain exceptions, trust preferred and other “hybrid” securities are phased out from Tier 1 capital in a three-year period starting January 2013. At December 31, 2011, Ally had $2.3 billion of MSRs and $2.5 billion of trust preferred securities, which were included as Tier 1 capital. Ally currently has no other “hybrid” securities outstanding. The Basel III 14Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Krules, when implemented, will impose limits on Ally's ability to meet its regulatory capital requirements through the use of MSRs, trust preferred securities, or other “hybrid” securities, if applicable. Pending final rules for Basel III and subsequent regulatory interpretation, there remains a degree of uncertainty on the full impact of Basel III. It is currently anticipated that U.S. banking regulators will propose regulations to implement Basel III in 2012.If we or Ally Bank fail to satisfy regulatory capital requirements, we or Ally Bank may be subject to serious regulatory sanctions ranging in severity from being precluded from making acquisitions or engaging in new activities to becoming subject to informal or formal supervisory actions by the FRB and/or FDIC and, potentially, FDIC receivership of Ally Bank. If any of these were to occur, such actions could prevent us from successfully executing our business plan and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position.The actions of the FRB and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising, and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict.Future consumer or mortgage legislation could harm our competitive position.In addition to the recent enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, various legislative bodies have also recently been considering altering the existing framework governing creditors' rights and mortgage products including legislation that would result in or allow loan modifications of various sorts. Such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business; limit or expand permissible activities; or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations.Ally and its subsidiaries are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, investigations, and proceedings by government and self-regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse consequences.Ally and its subsidiaries, including Ally Bank, are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations, and proceedings (both formal and informal) by government and self-regulatory agencies, including the FRB, FDIC, Utah DFI, CFPB, SEC, and the Federal Trade Commission regarding their respective operations. Such requests include subpoenas from each of the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice, served on Ally Financial Inc. and GMAC Mortgage LLC, respectively. Beginning in December 2010 and continuing through 2011, a series of subpoenas were received from the SEC, seeking information about various aspects of the process surrounding securitizations of residential mortgages with which certain of our mortgage subsidiaries were involved as sponsor or servicer. The subpoena received from the U.S. Department of Justice includes a broad request for documentation and other information in connection with its investigation of potential fraud related to the origination and/or underwriting of mortgage loans. These subpoenas, or any other investigation or information-gathering request, may result in material adverse consequences including without limitation, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other actions.Our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected by the impact of affiliate transaction restrictions imposed in connection with certain financing transactions.Certain transactions between Ally Bank and any of its nonbank “affiliates,” including but not limited to Ally Financial Inc. and ResCap are subject to federal statutory and regulatory restrictions. Pursuant to these restrictions, unless otherwise exempted, “covered transactions,” including Ally Bank's extensions of credit to and asset purchases from its nonbank affiliates, generally (1) are limited to 10% of Ally Bank's capital stock and surplus with respect to transactions with any individual affiliate, with an aggregate limit of 20% of Ally Bank's capital stock and surplus for all affiliates and all such transactions; (2) in the case of certain credit transactions, are subject to stringent collateralization requirements; (3) in the case of asset purchases by Ally Bank, may not involve the purchase of any asset deemed to be a “low quality asset” under federal banking guidelines; and (4) must be conducted in accordance with safe-and-sound banking practices (collectively, the Affiliate Transaction Restrictions). Under the Dodd-Frank Act, among other changes to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, credit exposures resulting from derivatives transactions and securities lending and borrowing transactions will be treated as “covered transactions.” Furthermore, there is an “attribution rule” that provides that a transaction between Ally Bank and a third party must be treated as a transaction between Ally Bank and a nonbank affiliate to the extent that the proceeds of the transaction are used for the benefit of, or transferred to, a nonbank affiliate of Ally Bank. Retail financing transactions by Ally Bank involving vehicles which are floorplan financed by Ally Financial Inc. are subject to the Affiliate Transaction Restrictions because the proceeds of the retail financings are deemed to benefit, and are ultimately transferred to, Ally.Historically, the FRB was authorized to exempt, in its discretion, transactions or relationships from the requirements of these rules if it found such exemptions to be in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of the rules. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, exemptions now may be granted by the FDIC if the FDIC and FRB jointly find that the exemption is in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of the rules, and the FDIC finds that the exemption does not present an unacceptable risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund. The FRB granted several such exemptions to Ally Bank in the past. However, the existing exemptions are subject to various conditions and, particularly in light of the statutory changes made by the Dodd-Frank Act, any requests for future exemptions may not be granted. Moreover, these limited exemptions generally do not encompass consumer leasing or used vehicle financing. Since there is no assurance that Ally Bank will be able to obtain future exemptions or waivers with respect to these restrictions, the ability to grow Ally Bank's business will be affected by the Affiliate Transaction Restrictions and the conditions set forth in the existing exemption letters. 15Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KAlly Financial Inc. may in the future require distributions from its subsidiaries.We currently fund Ally Financial Inc.'s obligations, including dividend payments to our preferred shareholders, and payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness, from cash generated by Ally Financial Inc. In the future, Ally Financial Inc. may not generate sufficient funds at the parent company level to fund its obligations. As such, it may require dividends, distributions, or other payments from its subsidiaries to fund its obligations. However, regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit the ability of Ally Financial Inc.'s subsidiaries to transfer funds freely to Ally Financial Inc. In particular, many of Ally Financial Inc.'s subsidiaries are subject to laws, regulations, and rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to it or that prohibit such transfers entirely in certain circumstances. These laws, regulations, and rules may hinder Ally Financial Inc.'s ability to access funds that it may need to make payments on its obligations in the future. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, Ally Financial Inc. may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on its ability to pay dividends. The bank regulators have the authority and, under certain circumstances, the duty to prohibit or to limit payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including Ally Financial Inc. and its subsidiaries.Current and future increases in FDIC insurance premiums, including the FDIC special assessment imposed on all FDIC-insured institutions, could decrease our earnings.Beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2011, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund (the DIF). In May 2009, the FDIC announced that it had voted to levy a special assessment on insured institutions in order to facilitate the rebuilding of the DIF. In September 2009, the FDIC voted to adopt an increase in the risk-based assessment rate effective beginning January 1, 2011, by three basis points. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act alters the calculation of an insured institution's deposit base for purposes of deposit insurance assessments and removes the upper limit for the reserve ratio designated by the FDIC each year. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule implementing these changes, which took effect on April 1, 2011. The FDIC will continue to assess the changes to the assessment rates at least annually. Future deposit premiums paid by Ally Bank depend on the level of the DIF and the magnitude and cost of future bank failures. Any increases in deposit insurance assessments could decrease our earnings.Risks Related to Our BusinessThe profitability and financial condition of our operations are heavily dependent upon the performance, operations, and prospects of GM and Chrysler.GM, GM dealers, and GM-related employees compose a significant portion of our customer base, and our domestic and, in particular, our International Automotive Finance operations are highly dependent on GM production and sales volume. In 2011, 62% of our North American new vehicle dealer inventory financing and 66% of our North American new vehicle consumer automotive financing volume were for GM dealers and customers. In addition, 97% of our international new vehicle dealer inventory financing and 82% of our international new vehicle consumer automotive financing volume were for GM dealers and customers. Furthermore, we have an agreement with Chrysler related to automotive financing products and services for Chrysler dealers and customers pursuant to which we are the preferred provider of new wholesale financing for Chrysler dealer inventory and consumer financing for Chrysler customers. In 2011, 30% of our North American new vehicle dealer inventory financing and 28% of our North American new vehicle consumer automotive financing volume were for Chrysler dealers and customers.Ally's agreements with GM and Chrysler regarding automotive financing products for their dealers and customers extend through December and April 2013, respectively, unless terminated earlier in accordance with their terms. The agreement with Chrysler provides for automatic one-year renewals unless either we or Chrysler provides sufficient notice of nonrenewal. As a result, our agreement with Chrysler will be automatically extended through April 30, 2014, unless Chrysler notifies us of nonrenewal on or before April 30, 2012, in which case, the agreement would expire on April 30, 2013. These agreements provide Ally with certain preferred provider benefits including limiting the use of other financing providers by GM and Chrysler in their incentive programs. The terms of the Ally agreement with GM changed after January 1, 2011, such that GM is now able to offer incrementally more incentive programs through third parties on a nonexclusive, side-by-side basis with Ally, provided that the pricing of the third parties meets certain requirements. Due to the highly competitive nature of the market for financial services, Ally may be unable to extend one or both of these agreements or may face less favorable terms upon extension. If Ally is unable to extend one or both of these agreements or if GM or Chrysler enters a similar agreement with a third party, Ally's retail financing volumes could be materially and adversely impacted.On October 1, 2010, GM acquired AmeriCredit Corp. (which GM subsequently renamed General Motors Financial Company, Inc.), an independent automotive finance company that focuses on providing leasing and subprime financing options. If GM were to direct substantially more business, including wholesale financing business, to its captive on noncommercial terms thus reducing its reliance on our services over time, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. In addition, it is possible that GM or other automotive manufacturers could utilize other existing companies to support their financing needs including offering products or terms that we would not or could not offer, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. Furthermore, other automotive manufacturers could expand or establish or acquire captive finance companies to support their financing needs thus reducing their need for our services.A significant adverse change in GM's or Chrysler's business, including significant adverse changes in their respective liquidity position and access to the capital markets; the production or sale of GM or Chrysler vehicles; the quality or resale value of GM or Chrysler vehicles; the use of GM or Chrysler marketing incentives; GM's or Chrysler's relationships with its key suppliers; or GM's or Chrysler's relationship 16Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Kwith the United Auto Workers and other labor unions and other factors impacting GM or Chrysler or their respective employees, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. In addition, growth in our International Automotive Finance operations are highly dependent on GM, and therefore any significant change to GM's international business or our relationship with GM may hinder our ability to expand internationally.There is no assurance that the global automotive market or GM's and Chrysler's respective share of that market will not suffer downturns in the future, and any negative impact could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position.Our business requires substantial capital and liquidity, and disruption in our funding sources and access to the capital markets would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, capital positions, and financial condition.Our liquidity and the long-term viability of Ally depend on many factors, including our ability to successfully raise capital and secure appropriate bank financing. We are currently required to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 15% at Ally Bank, which will require that Ally maintain substantial equity funds in Ally Bank and inject substantial additional equity funds into Ally Bank as Ally Bank's assets increase over time.We have significant maturities of unsecured debt each year. While we have reduced our reliance on unsecured funding, it continues to remain a critical component of our capital structure and financing plans. At December 31, 2011, approximately $12.0 billion in principal amount of total outstanding consolidated unsecured debt is scheduled to mature in 2012, which includes $7.4 billion in principal amount of debt issued under the FDIC's Temporary Liquidity Guaranty Program, and approximately $2.3 billion and $5.8 billion in principal amount of consolidated unsecured debt is scheduled to mature in 2013 and 2014, respectively. We also obtain short-term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes, all of which the holders may elect to have redeemed at any time without restriction. At December 31, 2011, a total of $2.8 billion in principal amount of Demand Notes were outstanding. We also rely on secured funding. At December 31, 2011, approximately $14.4 billion of outstanding consolidated secured debt is scheduled to mature in 2012, approximately $15.1 billion is scheduled to mature in 2013, and approximately $11.1 billion is scheduled to mature in 2014. Furthermore, at December 31, 2011, approximately $15.0 billion in certificates of deposit at Ally Bank are scheduled to mature in 2012, which is not included in the 2012 unsecured maturities provided above. Additional financing will be required to fund a material portion of the debt maturities over these periods. The capital markets continue to be volatile, and Ally's access to the debt markets may be significantly reduced during periods of market stress. In addition, we will continue to have significant original issue discount amortization expenses (OID expense) in the near future, which will adversely affect our net income and resulting capital position. OID expense was $925 million for the year ended 2011, and the remaining scheduled amortization of OID is $350 million, $263 million, and $190 million in 2012, 2013, and 2014, respectively.As a result of the volatility in the markets and our current unsecured debt ratings, we have increased our reliance on various secured debt markets. Although market conditions have improved, there can be no assurances that this will continue. In addition, we continue to rely on our ability to borrow from other financial institutions, and many of our primary bank facilities are up for renewal on a yearly basis. Any weakness in market conditions and a tightening of credit availability could have a negative effect on our ability to refinance these facilities and increase the costs of bank funding. Ally and Ally Bank also continue to access the securitization markets. While markets have continued to stabilize following the 2008 liquidity crisis, there can be no assurances these sources of liquidity will remain available to us.Our indebtedness and other obligations are significant and could materially and adversely affect our business.We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $101.6 billion in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding (including $53.0 billion in secured indebtedness). Interest expense on our indebtedness constituted approximately 57% of our total financing revenue and other interest income for the year ended December 31, 2011. In addition, during the twelve months ending December 31, 2011, we declared and paid preferred stock dividends of $794 million in the aggregate.We have the ability to create additional unsecured indebtedness. If our debt service obligations increase, whether due to the increased cost of existing indebtedness or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes. Our indebtedness also could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.The worldwide financial services industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete successfully or if there is increased competition in the automotive financing, mortgage, and/or insurance markets or generally in the markets for securitizations or asset sales, our business could be negatively affected.The markets for automotive and mortgage financing, banking, and insurance are highly competitive. The market for automotive financing has grown more competitive as more consumers are financing their vehicle purchases and as more competitors continue to enter this market as a result of how well automotive finance assets generally performed relative to other asset classes during the 2008 economic downturn. More recently, competition for automotive financing has further intensified as a growing number of banks have become increasingly interested in automotive-finance assets, which has resulted in pressure on our net interest margins. For example, on April 1, 2011, TD Bank Group announced the closing of its acquisition of Chrysler Financial, which could enhance Chrysler Financial's ability to expand its product offerings and may result in increased competition. Our mortgage business and Ally Bank face significant competition from commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage companies, and other financial institutions. Our insurance business faces significant 17Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Kcompetition from insurance carriers, reinsurers, third-party administrators, brokers, and other insurance-related companies. Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some of our competitors have lower cost structures, substantially lower costs of capital, and are much less reliant on securitization activities, unsecured debt, and other public markets. We face significant competition in most areas including product offerings, rates, pricing and fees, and customer service. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate, our profitability and financial condition could be negatively affected.The markets for asset and mortgage securitizations and whole-loan sales are competitive, and other issuers and originators could increase the amount of their issuances and sales. In addition, lenders and other investors within those markets often establish limits on their credit exposure to particular issuers, originators, and asset classes, or they may require higher returns to increase the amount of their exposure. Increased issuance by other participants in the market or decisions by investors to limit their credit exposure to (or to require a higher yield for) us or to automotive or mortgage securitizations or whole-loans could negatively affect our ability and that of our subsidiaries to price our securitizations and whole-loan sales at attractive rates. The result would be lower proceeds from these activities and lower profits for our subsidiaries and us.Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition, and results of operations.We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expenses, which represents management's best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans, all as described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is established to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses.Bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses, as well as our methodology for calculating our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations.The protracted period of adverse developments in the mortgage finance and credit markets has adversely affected ResCap's business, liquidity, and its capital position and has raised substantial doubt about ResCap's ability to continue as a going concern.ResCap has been adversely affected by the events and conditions in the broader mortgage banking industry, most severely but not limited to the domestic nonprime and nonconforming and international mortgage loan markets. Fair market valuations of held-for-sale mortgage loans, MSRs, and securitized interests that continue to be held by ResCap and other assets and liabilities ResCap records at fair value may continue to deteriorate if there continues to be weakness in housing prices or increased severity of delinquencies and defaults of mortgage loans, or should mortgage rates increase. These deteriorating factors previously resulted in higher provision for loan losses on ResCap's held-for-investment mortgage loans and real estate-lending portfolios. As a direct result of these events and conditions, ResCap discontinued new originations in all of its international operations and sold its U.K. and European operations and currently generally only purchases or originates mortgage loans that can be sold in the form of securitizations guaranteed by the GSEs. If the GSEs became unable or unwilling to purchase mortgage loans from ResCap, it would have a materially adverse impact on ResCap's funding and liquidity and on its ability to originate or purchase new mortgage loans.ResCap is highly leveraged relative to its cash flow and has recognized substantial losses resulting in a significant deterioration in capital. There continues to be a risk that ResCap will not be able to meet its debt service obligations, and/or that it will be in a negative liquidity position in 2012 or beyond. Further, ResCap was in default on certain of its financial covenants as of December 31, 2011 due to insufficient equity levels, and it is possible that further defaults could occur in the future due to insufficient equity, capital, or liquidity. ResCap remains heavily dependent on Ally and its affiliates for funding and capital support, and there can be no assurance that Ally or its affiliates will continue any such support or that Ally will choose to execute any further strategic transactions with respect to ResCap or that any transactions undertaken will be successful.In light of ResCap's liquidity and capital needs combined with volatile conditions in the marketplace, there is substantial doubt about ResCap's ability to continue as a going concern. If Ally determines to no longer support ResCap's capital or liquidity needs or if ResCap or Ally are unable to successfully execute effective initiatives, it would have a material adverse effect on ResCap's business, results of operations, and financial position.We have extensive financing and hedging exposures to ResCap, which could be at risk of nonpayment if ResCap were to file for bankruptcy.We have extensive financing and hedging arrangements in place with ResCap. At December 31, 2011, we had $2.6 billion in funding arrangements with ResCap. This amount included a $1.0 billion of senior secured credit facilities, which were fully drawn at December 31, 2011. This amount further included a $1.6 billion line of credit consisting of $1.1 billion in secured capacity, of which $235 million was drawn, and $500 million of unsecured capacity. The unsecured portion is only available after the secured portion has been fully drawn. At 18Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KDecember 31, 2011, all hedging arrangements were fully collateralized. Amounts outstanding under the financing and hedging arrangements fluctuate. If ResCap were to file for bankruptcy, ResCap's repayments of its financing facilities, including those with us, will be subject to bankruptcy proceedings and regulations, or ResCap may be unable to repay its financing facilities. In addition, we would be an unsecured creditor of ResCap to the extent that the proceeds from the sale of our collateral are insufficient to repay ResCap's secured obligations to us. In addition, it is possible that other ResCap creditors would seek to recharacterize our loans to ResCap as equity contributions or to seek equitable subordination of our claims so that the claims of other creditors would have priority over our claims. We may also find it advantageous to provide debtor-in-possession financing to ResCap in a bankruptcy proceeding in order to preserve the value of the collateral ResCap has pledged to us. In addition, should ResCap file for bankruptcy, our investment related to ResCap's equity position would likely be reduced to zero, and creditors of ResCap may attempt to assert claims directly against us for payment of their obligations, which could result in litigation with such creditors.There is a significant risk that ResCap will not be able to meet its debt service obligations and other funding obligations in the near term.ResCap expects its liquidity pressures to continue in 2012. ResCap is highly leveraged relative to its cash flow. At December 31, 2011, ResCap's unrestricted liquidity (cash readily available to cover operating demands from across its business operations) totaled $390 million with cash and cash equivalents totaling $619 million.ResCap expects that additional and continuing liquidity pressure, which is difficult to forecast with precision, will result from the obligation of its subsidiaries to advance delinquent principal, interest, property taxes, casualty insurance premiums, home equity line advances, and certain other amounts with respect to mortgage loans its subsidiaries service that become delinquent. In addition, ResCap continues to be subject to financial covenants requiring it to maintain minimum consolidated tangible net worth and consolidated liquidity balances. ResCap will attempt to meet these and other liquidity and capital demands through a combination of cash flow from operations and financings, potential asset sales, and other various alternatives. To the extent these sources prove insufficient, ResCap will be dependent on continued support from Ally to the extent Ally agrees to provide such support. Ally currently provides funding and capital support to ResCap through various secured and unsecured facilities, which includes a $500 million unsecured line of credit. The sufficiency of these sources of additional liquidity cannot be assured, and any asset sales, even if they raise sufficient cash to meet ResCap's liquidity needs, may adversely affect its overall profitability and financial condition.Moreover, even if ResCap is successful in implementing all of the actions described above, its ability to satisfy its liquidity needs and comply with any covenants included in its debt agreements requiring maintenance of minimum cash balances may be affected by additional factors and events (such as interest rate fluctuations and margin calls) that increase ResCap's cash needs making ResCap unable to independently satisfy its near-term liquidity requirements.Our mortgage subsidiary, ResCap, requires substantial liquidity and capital.ResCap remains heavily reliant on support from us to meet its liquidity and capital requirements, which includes approximately $2.4 billion in principal amount of indebtedness scheduled to mature in 2012, 2013, and 2014. For example, we made a capital contribution of approximately $197 million to ResCap in January 2012 through forgiveness of intercompany debt to cure a covenant breach by ResCap. In addition, ResCap has commitments to lend up to $1.8 billion under existing home equity lines of credit it has extended to customers. Developments in the market for many types of mortgage products have resulted in reduced liquidity for these assets. As a result, a significant portion of ResCap's assets are relatively illiquid.Pursuant to an existing contractual arrangement, ResCap is precluded from paying any dividends to us, including additional capital that we may provide in the future.ResCap employs various economic hedging strategies to mitigate the interest rate and prepayment risk inherent in many of its assets including its mortgage loans held-for-sale portfolio, MSRs, its portfolio of held-for-investment mortgage loans, and interests from securitizations. A significant portion of ResCap's operating cash at any given time may consist of funds delivered to it as credit support by counterparties pursuant to these arrangements. As interest rates change and dependent upon the hedge position, ResCap may need to continue to repay or deliver cash as credit support for these arrangements. If the amount ResCap must repay or deliver is substantial, depending on its liquidity position at that time, ResCap may not be able to pay such amounts as required.Certain of our mortgage subsidiaries have been, and will likely continue to be, required to repurchase mortgage loans for losses, indemnify the investor for incurred losses, or make the investor whole related to breaches of representations and warranties made in connection with the sale of loans, and face potential legal liability resulting from claims related to the sale of mortgage backed securities.When our Mortgage Companies sell mortgage loans through whole-loan sales or securitizations, these entities are required to make customary representations and warranties about the loans to the purchaser and/or securitization trust. These representations and warranties relate to, among other things, the ownership of the loan, the validity of the lien securing the loan, the loan's compliance with the criteria for inclusion in the transaction, including compliance with underwriting standards or loan criteria established by the buyer, ability to deliver required documentation, and compliance with applicable laws. In general, the representations and warranties described above may be enforced against the applicable Mortgage Companies at any time unless a sunset provision is in place. Breaches of these representations and warranties have resulted in a requirement that the applicable Mortgage Companies repurchase mortgage loans, indemnify the investor for incurred losses, or make the investor whole. As the mortgage industry continues to experience higher repurchase demands and additional 19Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Kparties begin to attempt to put back loans, a significant increase in activity beyond that experienced today could occur, resulting in additional future losses at our Mortgage Companies. At December 31, 2011, our reserve for representation and warranty obligations was $825 million. It is difficult to determine the accuracy of our estimates and assumptions used to determine this reserve. For example, if the law were to develop that disagrees with our interpretation that a claimant must prove that the alleged breach of representations and warranties was caused by the alleged adverse effect on the interest of the claimant, it could significantly impact our determination of the reserve. In addition, if recent court rulings related to monoline litigation that have allowed sampling of loan files instead of a loan-by-loan review to determine if a representations and warranties breach has occurred are followed generally by the courts, private-label securitization investors may view litigation as a more attractive alternative to a loan-by-loan review. As a result of these and other developments, the actual experience at our Mortgage Companies may differ materially from these estimates and assumptions. Refer to Note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.Further, claims related to private-label mortgage-backed securities (MBS) have been brought against Ally and certain of its subsidiaries under federal and state securities laws and contract laws (among other theories), and additional similar claims are likely to be brought in the future. Several securities law cases have been brought by various third-party investors relating to MBS, where investors have alleged misstatements and omissions in registration statements, prospectuses, prospectus supplements, and other documents related to MBS offerings. In addition, there are two cases pending where MBIA Insurance Corporation (MBIA), a monoline bond insurance company, has alleged, among other things, that two of our Mortgage Companies breached their contractual representations and warranties relating to the characteristics of the mortgage loans contained in certain insured MBS offerings. MBIA further alleges that such entities failed to follow certain remedy procedures set forth in the contracts and improperly serviced the mortgage loans. Along with claims of breach of contract, MBIA also alleges fraud. In addition, there are four cases where Financial Guaranty Insurance Company (FGIC) has alleged, among other things, that certain of our mortgage subsidiaries breached their contractual representations and warranties relating to the characteristics of the mortgage loans contained in certain insured MBS offerings. FGIC further alleges that our subsidiaries breached contractual obligations to permit access to loan files and certain books and records. Along with claims of breach of contract, FGIC also alleges fraud in one of the three cases. We expect our Mortgage Companies to receive additional repurchase demands from MBIA and FGIC, the amount of which could be substantial. In addition, litigation from other monoline bond insurance companies is likely. Third-party investors may also bring contractual representation and warranties claims against us. Refer to Note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details with respect to existing litigation.Certain of our mortgage subsidiaries received subpoenas in July 2010 from the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), which is the conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The subpoenas relating to Fannie Mae investments have been withdrawn with prejudice. The FHFA indicated that documents provided in response to the remaining subpoenas will enable the FHFA to determine whether they believe issuers of private-label MBS are potentially liable to Freddie Mac for losses they might have incurred. Although Freddie Mac has not brought any representation and warranty claims against us with respect to private label securities subsequent to the settlement, they may well do so in the future. The FHFA has commenced securities and related common law fraud litigation against certain of our mortgage subsidiaries with respect to certain of Freddie Mac's private label securities investments. Refer to Note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.We believe it is reasonably possible that losses at our Mortgage Companies beyond amounts currently reserved for the matters described above could occur, and such losses could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. However, based on currently available information, we are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible losses above reserves that have been established.Changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs, restrictions on our access to such programs, or disruptions in the secondary markets in the United States or in other countries in which we operate could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.Our ability to generate revenue through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors in the United States depends to a significant degree on programs administered by the GSEs and others that facilitate the issuance of MBS in the secondary market. These GSEs play a powerful role in the residential mortgage industry and we have significant business relationships with them. Proposals have been enacted in the U.S. Congress and are under consideration by various regulatory authorities that would affect the manner in which these GSEs conduct their business to require them to register their stock with the SEC to reduce or limit certain business benefits that they receive from the U.S. government and to limit the size of the mortgage loan portfolios that they may hold. Furthermore, the Obama administration released a report in 2011 that recommended winding down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We do not know what impact, if any, the report would have on the future of the GSEs. Moreover, the results of the upcoming U.S. presidential election may also have a significant impact on the future of the GSEs. In addition, the GSEs themselves have been negatively affected by recent mortgage market conditions, including conditions that have threatened their access to debt financing. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of these GSEs could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Also, any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary market including declines in institutional investors' desire to invest in our mortgage products could materially adversely affect our business.We are exposed to consumer credit risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.We are subject to credit risk resulting from defaults in payment or performance by customers for our contracts and loans, as well as contracts and loans that are securitized and in which we retain a residual interest. For example, the continued decline in the domestic housing market and the increase in unemployment rates resulted in an increase in delinquency rates related to mortgage loans that ResCap and Ally 20Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KBank either hold or retain an interest in. Furthermore, a weak economic environment, high unemployment rates, and the continued deterioration of the housing market could exert pressure on our consumer automotive finance customers resulting in higher delinquencies, repossessions, and losses. There can be no assurances that our monitoring of our credit risk as it affects the value of these assets and our efforts to mitigate credit risk through our risk-based pricing, appropriate underwriting policies, and loss-mitigation strategies are, or will be, sufficient to prevent a further adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. In addition, we have begun to increase our used automobile and nonprime automobile financing (nonprime automobile financing). We define nonprime consumer automobile loans as those loans with a FICO score (or an equivalent score) at origination of less than 620. At December 31, 2011, the carrying value of our North American Automotive Finance Operations (NAO) nonprime consumer automobile loans before allowance for loan losses was $3.8 billion, or approximately 7.1% of our total NAO consumer automobile loans. Of these loans, $51 million were considered nonperforming as they had been placed on nonaccrual status in accordance with internal loan policies. Refer to the Nonaccrual Loans section of Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Our International Automotive Finance Operations (IO) also has exposure to loans of higher credit risk with similar characteristics to those of the nonprime loans held by NAO. However, the lack of a consistent external third-party provider of consumer credit score information (like FICO in the United States and Canada) across the international geographies where we operate requires us to use our own internally-developed credit scoring approach to create a similar international comparative. Based on this internal analysis we believe nonprime loans represent less than 10% of our total IO consumer automobile loans and of these loans, less than 5% were considered nonperforming. As we grow our automotive asset portfolio in nonprime automobile financing loans over time, our credit risk may increase. As part of the underwriting process, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and the misrepresentation is not detected before completing the transaction, the credit risk associated with the transaction may be increased.General business and economic conditions may significantly and adversely affect our revenues, profitability, and financial condition.Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and in the markets in which we operate outside the United States. A downturn in economic conditions resulting in increased short and long term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in the debt capital markets, unemployment rates, consumer and commercial bankruptcy filings, or a decline in the strength of national and local economies and other factors that negatively affect household incomes could decrease demand for our financing and mortgage products and increase mortgage and financing delinquency and losses on our customer and dealer financing operations. We have been negatively affected due to the significant stress in the residential real estate and related capital markets and, in particular, the lack of home price appreciation in many markets in which we lend. Further, a significant and sustained increase in fuel prices could lead to diminished new and used vehicle purchases and negatively affect our automotive finance business.If the rate of inflation were to increase, or if the debt capital markets or the economies of the United States or our markets outside the United States were to weaken, or if home prices or new and used vehicle purchases experience declines, we could be significantly and adversely affected, and it could become more expensive for us to conduct our business. For example, business and economic conditions that negatively affect household incomes, housing prices, and consumer behavior related to our businesses could decrease (1) the demand for our mortgage loans and new and used vehicle financing and (2) the value of the collateral underlying our portfolio of held-for-investment mortgages and new and used vehicle loans and interests that continue to be held by us, thus further increasing the number of consumers who become delinquent or default on their loans. In addition, the rate of delinquencies, foreclosures, and losses on our loans (especially our nonprime mortgage loans) could be higher during more severe economic slowdowns.Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures, or losses could further harm our ability to sell our mortgage and new and used vehicle loans, the prices we receive for our mortgage and new and used vehicle loans, or the value of our portfolio of mortgage and new and used vehicle loans held-for-investment or interests from our securitizations, which could harm our revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Continued adverse business and economic conditions could affect demand for housing, new and used vehicles, the cost of construction, and other related factors that could harm the revenues and profitability of our business.In addition, our business and earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. government and its agencies and similar governmental authorities in the markets in which we operate outside the United States. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. The FRB's policies influence the new and used vehicle financing market and the size of the mortgage origination market, which significantly affects the earnings of our businesses and the earnings of our business capital activities. The FRB's policies also influence the yield on our interest earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict and could adversely affect our revenues, profitability, and financial condition.The current debt crisis in Europe, the risk that certain countries may default on their sovereign debt, and recent rating agency actions with respect to European countries and the United States and the resulting impact on the financial markets, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial position.The current crisis in Europe has created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European Union countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. Recently, rating agencies have lowered their ratings on several euro-zone countries. The continuation of the European debt crisis has adversely impacted financial markets and has created substantial volatility and uncertainty, and will likely continue to do so. Risks related to this have had, and are likely to continue to have, a negative impact on global economic activity and the financial markets. In addition, on August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America to 'AA+' from 'AAA', and the outlook on its long-term rating is negative. The U.S. downgrade, any future 21Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Kdowngrades, as well as the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-related obligations, could impact our ability to obtain, and the pricing with respect to, funding that is collateralized by affected instruments and obtained through the secured and unsecured markets. As these conditions persist, our business, results of operation, and financial position could be materially adversely affected.Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions.Geopolitical conditions may affect our earnings. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions.The U.S. Department of the Treasury (Treasury) holds a majority of the outstanding our common stock.At February 28, 2012, Treasury held 981,971 shares of common stock, which represents approximately 74% of the voting power of the holders of common stock outstanding for matters requiring a vote of the holders of common stock. In addition, as of the date hereof, Treasury holds 118,750,000 shares of Series F-2 Preferred Stock (which are convertible into shares of common stock in accordance with Ally's certificate of incorporation), with an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $5.9 billion.Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Governance Agreement dated May 21, 2009, as of the date hereof, Treasury also has the right to appoint six of the eleven members to our board of directors. As a result of this stock ownership interest and Treasury's right to appoint six directors to our board of directors, Treasury has the ability to exert control, through its power to vote for the election of our directors, over various matters. To the extent Treasury elects to exert such control over us, its interests (as a government entity) may differ from those of our other stockholders and it may influence, through its ability to vote for the election of our directors, matters including:•The selection, tenure and compensation of our management;•Our business strategy and product offerings;•Our relationship with our employees and other constituencies; and•Our financing activities, including the issuance of debt and equity securities.In particular, Treasury may have a greater interest in promoting U.S. economic growth and jobs than our other stockholders. In the future we may also become subject to new and additional laws and government regulations regarding various aspects of our business as a result of participation in the TARP program and the U.S. government's ownership in our business. These regulations could make it more difficult for us to compete with other companies that are not subject to similar regulations.The limitations on compensation imposed on us due to our participation in TARP, including the restrictions placed on our compensation by the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation, may adversely affect our ability to retain and motivate our executives and employees.Our performance is dependent on the talent and efforts of our management team and employees. As a result of our participation in TARP, the compensation of certain members of our management team and employees is subject to extensive restrictions under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the ARRA), which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, as implemented by the Interim Final Rule issued by Treasury on June 15, 2009 (the IFR). In addition, due to our level of participation in TARP, pursuant to ARRA and the IFR, the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation has the authority to further regulate our compensation arrangements with certain of our executives and employees. In addition, we may become subject to further restrictions under any other future legislation or regulation limiting executive compensation. Many of the restrictions are not limited to our senior executives and affect other employees whose contributions to revenue and performance may be significant. These limitations may leave us unable to create a compensation structure that permits us to retain and motivate certain of our executives and employees or to attract new executives or employees, especially if we are competing against institutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. Any such inability could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our borrowing costs and access to the unsecured debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings.The cost and availability of unsecured financing are materially affected by our short- and long-term credit ratings. Each of Standard & Poor's Rating Services; Moody's Investors Service, Inc.; Fitch, Inc.; and Dominion Bond Rating Service rates our debt. Our current ratings as assigned by each of the respective rating agencies are below investment grade, which negatively impacts our access to liquidity and increases our borrowing costs in the unsecured market. Ratings reflect the rating agencies' opinions of our financial strength, operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet our obligations. On February 2, 2012, Fitch downgraded our senior debt to BB- from BB and changed the outlook to negative. Future downgrades of our credit ratings would increase borrowing costs and further constrain our access to the unsecured debt markets and, as a result, would negatively affect our business. In addition, downgrades of our credit ratings could increase the possibility of additional terms and conditions being added to any new or replacement financing arrangements as well as impact elements of certain existing secured borrowing arrangements.Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security and may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the issuing organization. Each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating.22Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KOur profitability and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if the residual value of off-lease vehicles decrease in the future.Our expectation of the residual value of a vehicle subject to an automotive lease contract is a critical element used to determine the amount of the lease payments under the contract at the time the customer enters into it. As a result, to the extent the actual residual value of the vehicle, as reflected in the sales proceeds received upon remarketing at lease termination, is less than the expected residual value for the vehicle at lease inception, we incur additional depreciation expense and/or a loss on the lease transaction. General economic conditions, the supply of off-lease and other vehicles to be sold, new vehicle market prices, perceived vehicle quality, overall price and volatility of gasoline or diesel fuel, among other factors, heavily influence used vehicle prices and thus the actual residual value of off-lease vehicles. Consumer confidence levels and the strength of automotive manufacturers and dealers can also influence the used vehicle market. For example, during 2008, sharp declines in demand and used vehicle sale prices adversely affected our remarketing proceeds and financial results.Vehicle brand images, consumer preference, and vehicle manufacturer marketing programs that influence new and used vehicle markets also influence lease residual values. In addition, our ability to efficiently process and effectively market off-lease vehicles affects the disposal costs and proceeds realized from the vehicle sales. While manufacturers, at times, may provide support for lease residual values including through residual support programs, this support does not in all cases entitle us to full reimbursement for the difference between the remarketing sales proceeds for off-lease vehicles and the residual value specified in the lease contract. Differences between the actual residual values realized on leased vehicles and our expectations of such values at contract inception could have a negative impact on our profitability and financial condition.Current conditions in the residential mortgage market and housing markets may continue to adversely affect Ally's mortgage business.The residential mortgage market in the United States and other international markets in which our Mortgage operations conduct, or previously conducted, business have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that adversely affected our mortgage business' results of operations and financial condition. Delinquencies and losses with respect to our Legacy Portfolio and Other segment's nonprime mortgage loans increased significantly. Housing prices in many parts of the United States, the United Kingdom, and other international markets also declined or stopped appreciating after extended periods of significant appreciation. In addition, the liquidity provided to the mortgage sector had been significantly reduced. This liquidity reduction combined with our decision to reduce our mortgage business' exposure to the nonprime mortgage market caused its nonprime mortgage production to decline. Similar trends have emerged beyond the nonprime sector, especially at the lower end of the prime credit quality scale, and have had a similar effect on our mortgage business' related liquidity needs and businesses. These trends have resulted in significant write-downs to our Legacy Portfolio and Other's held-for-sale mortgage loans and trading securities portfolios and additions to its allowance for loan losses for its held-for-investment mortgage loans and warehouse-lending receivables portfolios. A continuation of these conditions may continue to adversely affect our mortgage business' financial condition and results of operations.Moreover, the continued deterioration of the U.S. housing market and decline in home prices since 2008 in many U.S. markets, which may continue, could result in increased delinquencies or defaults on the mortgage assets ResCap owns and services as well as those mortgage assets owned by Ally Bank. Further, loans that our Mortgage operations historically made based on limited credit or income documentation also increase the likelihood of future increases in delinquencies or defaults on mortgage loans. An increase in delinquencies or defaults will result in a higher level of credit losses and credit-related expenses and increased liquidity requirements to fund servicing advances, all of which in turn will reduce revenues and profits of our mortgage business. Higher credit losses and credit-related expenses also could adversely affect our financial condition.Significant indemnification payments or contract, lease, or loan repurchase activity of retail contracts or leases or mortgage loans could harm our profitability and financial condition.We have repurchase obligations in our capacity as servicer in securitizations and whole-loan sales. If a servicer breaches a representation, warranty, or servicing covenant with respect to an automotive receivable or mortgage loan, the servicer may be required by the servicing provisions to repurchase that asset from the purchaser or otherwise compensate one or more classes of investors for losses caused by the breach. If the frequency at which repurchases of assets or other payments occurs increases substantially from its present rate, the result could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations.In connection with its servicing of securitized mortgage loans, ResCap is subject to contractual caps on the percentage of mortgage loans it is permitted to modify in any securitized pool. The financial crisis has resulted in dramatic increases in the volume of delinquent mortgage loans over the past three years. In an effort to achieve the best net present value recovery for the securitization trust, ResCap increased the volume of modifications of distressed mortgage loans to assist homeowners and avoid liquidating properties in a collapsing and opaque housing market. In certain securitization transactions, ResCap has exceeded the applicable contractual modification cap. The securitization documents provide that the contractual caps can be raised or eliminated with the concurrence of each rating agency rating the transaction. For certain transactions with respect to which loan modifications have exceeded the contractual caps, the rating agencies have concurred in raising or eliminating the caps, but they have not consented in connection with other such transactions. ResCap will continue to seek their concurrence in connection with other transactions as it deems appropriate and will suspend modifications in excess of applicable caps pending receipt of such consent or investor approval to amend the servicing contracts. An investor in a specific mortgage security class might claim that modifications in excess of the applicable cap amounted to a material failure of ResCap to perform its servicing obligations and that the investor was damaged as a result. Such claims, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, 23Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Kliquidity, and results of operations.Our earnings may decrease because of decreases or increases in interest rates.We are subject to risks from decreasing interest rates, particularly given the Federal Reserve's recent steps to keep interest rates low in an attempt to improve economic growth. For example, a significant decrease in interest rates could increase the rate at which mortgages are prepaid, which could require us to write down the value of our retained interests and MSRs. Moreover, if prepayments are greater than expected, the cash we receive over the life of our held-for-investment mortgage loans and our retained interests would be reduced. Higher-than-expected prepayments could also reduce the value of our MSRs and, to the extent the borrower does not refinance with us, the size of our servicing portfolio. Therefore, any such changes in interest rates could harm our revenues, profitability, and financial condition.Rising interest rates could also have an adverse impact on our business. For example, rising interest rates:•will increase our cost of funds;•may reduce our consumer automotive financing volume by influencing customers to pay cash for, as opposed to financing, vehicle purchases or not to buy new vehicles;•may negatively impact our ability to remarket off-lease vehicles;•generally reduce our residential mortgage loan production as borrowers become less likely to refinance and the costs associated with acquiring a new home become more expensive; and•will generally reduce the value of mortgage and automotive financing loans and contracts and retained interests and fixed income securities held in our investment portfolio.Throughout 2009 and 2010 the credit risk embedded in the balance sheet was reduced as a result of asset sales, asset markdowns, and a change in the mix of our loan assets as the legacy portfolios were replaced with assets underwritten to tighter credit standards. This reduction in risk has resulted in a mix of assets outstanding on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, with a lower yielding profile than the prior-year period. During this same period of time we experienced a significant decline in our consumer automotive operating lease portfolio that was realizing higher yields from remarketing gains due to historically high used vehicle prices. The combination of the above factors resulted in a decline in asset yields more than the decline in liability rates, and therefore the decline in the net interest spread on the balance sheet throughout 2010 and into 2011.Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with changes in interest rates and could affect our profitability and financial condition as could our failure to comply with hedge accounting principles and interpretations.We employ various economic hedging strategies to mitigate the interest rate and prepayment risk inherent in many of our assets and liabilities. Our hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets, liabilities, and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, we may experience volatility in our earnings that could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to find market participants that are willing to act as our hedging counterparties, which could have an adverse effect on the success of our hedging strategies.In addition, hedge accounting in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires the application of significant subjective judgments to a body of accounting concepts that is complex and for which the interpretations have continued to evolve within the accounting profession and among the standard-setting bodies.A failure of or interruption in, as well as, security risks of the communications and information systems on which we rely to conduct our business could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely as a result of inadequate or failed processes or systems, human errors, or external events could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer applications being received, slower processing of applications, and reduced efficiency in servicing. In addition, our communication and information systems may present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business.We use estimates and assumptions in determining the fair value of certain of our assets in determining lease residual values and in determining our reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, our cash flow, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected.We use estimates and various assumptions in determining the fair value of many of our assets, including certain held-for-investment and held-for-sale loans for which we elected fair value accounting, retained interests from securitizations of loans and contracts, MSRs, and other investments, which do not have an established market value or are not publicly traded. We also use estimates and assumptions in determining the residual values of leased vehicles. In addition, we use estimates and assumptions in determining our reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses which represent the accumulation of estimates for both reported losses and those incurred, but not 24Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Kreported, including claims adjustment expenses relating to direct insurance and assumed reinsurance agreements. For further discussion related to estimates and assumptions, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Estimates. It is difficult to determine the accuracy of our estimates and assumptions, and our actual experience may differ materially from these estimates and assumptions. A material difference between our estimates and assumptions and our actual experience may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects.Our business outside the United States exposes us to additional risks that may cause our revenues and profitability to decline.We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the United States exposing us to risks such as the following:•multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change;•differing local product preferences and product requirements;•fluctuations in foreign interest rates;•difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing foreign operations;•differing labor regulations;•consequences from changes in tax laws;•restrictions on our ability to repatriate profits or transfer cash into or out of foreign countries; and•political and economic instability, natural calamities, war, and terrorism.The effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, adversely affect our revenues and profitability.Our business could be adversely affected by changes in foreign-currency exchange rates.We are exposed to risks related to the effects of changes in foreign-currency exchange rates. Changes in currency exchange rates can have a significant impact on our earnings from international operations as a result of foreign-currency-translation adjustments. While we carefully monitor and attempt to manage our exposure to fluctuation in currency exchange rates through foreign-currency hedging activities, these types of changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Fluctuations in valuation of investment securities or significant fluctuations in investment market prices could negatively affect revenues.Investment market prices in general are subject to fluctuation. Consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value and could negatively affect our revenues. Additionally, negative fluctuations in the value of available-for-sale investment securities could result in unrealized losses recorded in equity. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments, national and international events, and general market conditions.A loss of contractual servicing rights could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations.We are the servicer for all of the receivables we have acquired or originated and transferred to other parties in securitizations and whole-loan sales of automotive receivables. Our mortgage subsidiaries service the mortgage loans we have securitized, and we service the majority of the mortgage loans we have sold in whole-loan sales. In each case, we are paid a fee for our services, which fees in the aggregate constitute a substantial revenue stream for us. In each case, we are subject to the risk of termination under the circumstances specified in the applicable servicing provisions.In most securitizations and whole-loan sales, the owner of the receivables or mortgage loans will be entitled to declare a servicer default and terminate the servicer upon the occurrence of specified events. These events typically include a bankruptcy of the servicer, a material failure by the servicer to perform its obligations, and a failure by the servicer to turn over funds on the required basis. The termination of these servicing rights, were it to occur, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations and those of our mortgage subsidiaries.Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, and financial condition.Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by various parties, including accounting standard setters and those who interpret the standards, such as the FASB and the SEC, banking regulators, and our independent registered public accounting firm. Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, or financial condition.25Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KRecently, the FASB has proposed new financial accounting standards, and has many active projects underway, that could materially affect our reported revenues, profitability, or financial condition. These proposed standards or projects include the potential for significant changes in the accounting for financial instruments (including loans, deposits, and debt) and the accounting for leases, among others. It is possible that any changes, if enacted, could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, or financial condition.The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty.Our inability to maintain relationships with dealers could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Our business depends on the continuation of our relationships with our customers, particularly the automotive dealers with whom we do business. If we are not able to maintain existing relationships with key automotive dealers or if we are not able to develop new relationships for any reason, including if we are not able to provide services on a timely basis or offer products that meet the needs of the dealers, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected.Adverse economic conditions or changes in laws in states in which we have customer concentrations may negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.We are exposed to consumer loan portfolio concentration in California and Texas and consumer mortgage loan concentration in California, Florida, and Michigan. Factors adversely affecting the economies and applicable laws in these states could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.