Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur businesses face many risks and uncertainties, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We believe that the most significant of the risks and uncertainties that we face are described below. This Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.10Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KRisks Related to RegulationOur business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by regulations to which we are subject as a result of our bank holding company status. We are a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act). Many of the regulatory requirements to which we are subject as a bank holding company were not applicable to us prior to December 2008 and have and will continue to require significant expense and devotion of resources to fully implement necessary policies and procedures to ensure continued compliance. Compliance with such laws and regulations involves substantial costs and may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Recent events, particularly in the financial and real estate markets, have resulted in bank regulatory agencies placing increased focus and scrutiny on participants in the financial services industry, including us. For a description of our regulatory requirements, see “Business—Certain Regulatory Matters.”Ally is subject to ongoing supervision, examination and regulation by the FRB, and Ally Bank by the FDIC and the Utah DFI, in each case, through regular examinations and other means that allow the regulators to gauge management’s ability to identify, assess, and control risk in all areas of operations in a safe-and-sound manner and to ensure compliance with laws and regulations. Ally is currently required by its banking supervisors to make improvements in areas such as board and senior management oversight, risk management, regulatory reporting, internal audit planning, capital adequacy process, stress testing, and Bank Secrecy Act / anti-money-laundering compliance, and to continue to reduce problem assets. Separately, Ally Bank is currently required by its banking supervisors to make improvements in areas such as compliance management and training, consumer protection monitoring, consumer complaint resolution, internal audit program and residential mortgage loan pricing, and fee monitoring. These requirements are judicially enforceable, and if we are unable to implement and maintain these required actions, plans, policies and procedures in a timely and effective manner and otherwise comply with the requirements outlined above, we could become subject to formal supervisory actions which could subject us to significant restrictions on our existing business or on our ability to develop any new business. Such forms of supervisory action could include, without limitation, written agreements, cease and desist orders, and consent orders and may, among other things, result in restrictions on our ability to pay dividends, requirements to increase capital, restrictions on our activities, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, and enforcement of such action through injunctions or restraining orders. We could also be required to dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period. The terms of any such supervisory action could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating flexibility, financial condition, and results of operations.Our ability to engage in certain activities may be adversely affected by our status as a bank holding company.As a bank holding company, Ally’s activities are generally limited to banking or to managing or controlling banks or to other activities deemed closely related to banking or otherwise permissible under the BHC Act and related regulations. Likewise, subject to certain exceptions, Ally is not permitted to acquire more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any nonaffiliated bank or bank holding company, directly or indirectly, or to acquire control of any other company, directly or indirectly (including by acquisition of 25% or more of a class of voting shares). Upon our bank holding company approval, we were permitted an initial two-year grace period to bring our activities and investments into conformity with these restrictions. This grace period expired in December 2010. The FRB then granted two one-year extensions that expired in December 2012, and recently granted a third and final one-year extension that expires in December 2013. We will not be permitted to apply to the FRB for any further extensions. Certain of Ally’s existing activities and investments are deemed impermissible under the BHC Act and must be terminated or disposed of by the expiration of this extension, the most significant of which includes most of our insurance activities and our SmartAuction vehicle remarketing services for third parties. While these activities may be continued if Ally is able to convert to a financial holding company under the BHC Act, Ally may be unable to satisfy the requirements to enable it to convert to a financial holding company prior to that time, and activities, businesses, or investments that would be permissible for a financial holding company will need to be terminated or disposed of. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position.As a bank holding company, our ability to expand into new business activities would require us to obtain the prior approval of the relevant banking supervisors. There can be no assurance that any required approval will be obtained or that we will be able to execute on any such plans in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to obtain approval to expand into new business activities, our business, results of operations, and financial position may be materially adversely affected.Our ability to execute our business strategy may be affected by regulatory considerations.Our business strategy for Ally Bank, which is primarily focused on automotive lending and growth of our direct-channel deposit business, is subject to regulatory oversight from a safety and soundness perspective. If our banking supervisors raise concerns regarding any aspect of our business strategy for Ally Bank, we may be obliged to alter our strategy, which could include moving certain activities, such as certain types of lending, outside of Ally Bank to one of our nonbanking affiliates. Alternative funding sources outside of Ally Bank, such as asset securitization or financings in the capital markets, could be more expensive than funding through Ally Bank and could adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition.We are subject to new capital planning and systemic risk regimes, which impose significant restrictions and requirements.As a bank holding company with $50 billion or more of consolidated assets, Ally is required to conduct periodic stress tests and submit a proposed capital action plan to the FRB every January, which the FRB must take action on by the following March. The proposed capital 11Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Kaction plan must include a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution, and any similar action that the FRB determines could have an impact on Ally’s consolidated capital. The proposed capital action plan must also include a discussion of how Ally will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios and above a Tier 1 common equity-to-total risk-weighted assets ratio of 5 percent, and serve as a source of strength to Ally Bank. The FRB's capital plan rule requires that Ally receive no objection from the FRB prior to making a capital distribution. Ally submitted its capital plan in January 2013. Failure to obtain no objection to this plan could limit our ability to pay dividends, redeem or repurchase securities, or take other capital actions in the future.In addition, in December 2011, the FRB proposed rules to implement certain provisions of the systemic risk regime under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act). If adopted as proposed, among other provisions, the rules would require Ally to maintain a sufficient quantity of highly liquid assets to survive a projected 30-day liquidity stress event and implement various liquidity-related corporate governance measures; limit Ally’s aggregate exposure to any unaffiliated counterparty to 25% of Ally’s capital and surplus; and potentially subject Ally to an early remediation regime that could limit the ability of Ally to pay dividends or expand its business if the FRB identified Ally as suffering from financial or management weaknesses. The systemic risk provisions, when implemented, could adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations, and financial condition.Our ability to rely on deposits as a part of our funding strategy may be limited.Ally Bank continues to be a key part of our funding strategy, and we have increased our reliance on deposits as an alternative source of funding through Ally Bank. Ally Bank does not have a retail branch network, and it obtains its deposits through direct banking and brokered deposits which, at December 31, 2012, included $9.4 billion of brokered certificates of deposit that may be more price sensitive than other types of deposits and may become less available if alternative investments offer higher interest rates. At December 31, 2012, brokered deposits represented 20% of Ally Bank total deposits. Our ability to maintain our current level of deposits or grow our deposit base could be affected by regulatory restrictions including the possible imposition of prior approval requirements, restrictions on deposit growth, or restrictions on our rates offered. In addition, perceptions of our financial strength, rates offered by third parties, and other competitive factors beyond our control, including returns on alternative investments, will also impact our ability to grow our deposit base. Even if we are able to grow the deposit base of Ally Bank, our regulators may impose restrictions on our ability to use Ally Bank deposits as a source of funding for certain business activities potentially raising the cost of funding those activities without the use of Ally Bank deposits.The regulatory environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings.Our domestic operations are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions relating to supervision and regulation by state and federal authorities. Such regulation and supervision are primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers, not for the benefit of investors in our securities, and could limit our discretion in operating our business. Noncompliance with applicable statutes, regulations, rules, or policies could result in the suspension or revocation of any license or registration at issue as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties.Ally, Ally Bank, and many of our nonbank subsidiaries are heavily regulated by bank and other regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. This regulatory oversight is established to protect depositors, the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund, and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Changes to statutes, regulations, rules, or policies including the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, rules, or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer, limiting our ability to pursue acquisitions and increasing the ability of third parties to offer competing financial services and products.Our operations are also heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the United States. For example, certain of our foreign subsidiaries operate either as a bank or a regulated finance company, and our insurance operations are subject to various requirements in the foreign markets in which we operate. The varying requirements of these jurisdictions may be inconsistent with U.S. rules and may materially adversely affect our business or limit necessary regulatory approvals, or if approvals are obtained, we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. In addition, in many countries, the regulations applicable to the financial services industry are uncertain and evolving.Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market with regard to the affected product and on our reputation generally. No assurance can be given that applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted, or that we will not be prohibited by local laws or regulators from raising interest rates above certain desired levels, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating flexibility, financial condition, or results of operations.Financial services legislative and regulatory reforms may have a significant impact on our business and results of operations.The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July 2010, has and will continue to substantially change the legal and regulatory framework under which we operate. Certain portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, and others have become effective since enactment, while others are subject to further rulemaking and discretion of various regulatory bodies. The Dodd-Frank Act, when fully implemented, will have material implications for Ally and the entire financial services industry. Among other things, it will or potentially could:12Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-K•result in Ally being subject to enhanced oversight and scrutiny as a result of being a bank holding company with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets;•affect the levels of capital and liquidity with which Ally must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels;•subject Ally to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the FDIC;•impact a number of Ally’s business and risk management strategies;•restrict the revenue that Ally generates from certain businesses;•require Ally to provide to the Federal Reserve and FDIC an annual plan for its rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress; and•subject Ally to a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which has very broad rule-making, examination, and enforcement authorities.In light of the further study and rulemaking required to fully implement the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the discretion afforded to federal regulators, the full impact of this legislation on Ally, its business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time and may not be known for a number of years. In addition, regulations may impact us differently in comparison to other more established financial institutions. However, these impacts are expected to be substantial and some of them are likely to adversely affect Ally and its financial performance. The extent to which Ally can adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not knowable at this time.Our business may be adversely affected upon our implementation of the revised capital requirements under the Basel III capital rules.In December 2010, the Bank for International Settlements’ Basel Committee on Banking Supervision adopted new capital, leverage, and liquidity guidelines under the Basel Accord (Basel III), which when implemented in the United States, may have the effect of raising capital requirements beyond those required by current law and the Dodd-Frank Act. In June 2012, the U.S. banking regulators proposed rules to implement many aspects of Basel III (the U.S. Basel III proposals). The U.S. Basel III proposals contain new capital standards that raise the quality of capital and strengthen counterparty credit risk capital requirements and introduce a leverage ratio as a supplemental measure to the risk-based ratio. The proposals include a new capital conservation buffer, which imposes a common equity requirement above the new minimum that can be depleted under stress, and could result in restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses under certain circumstances. The U.S. Basel III proposals also provide for a potential countercyclical buffer that regulators can activate during periods of excessive credit growth in their jurisdiction. The U.S. Basel III proposals contemplate that the new capital requirements would be phased in over several years, beginning in 2013. In November 2012, the U.S. banking regulators announced that the U.S. Basel III proposals would not become effective on January 1, 2013. The announcement did not specify new implementation or phase-in dates for the U.S. Basel III proposals.The Basel III rules and the Dodd-Frank Act, when implemented, will over time impose limits on Ally’s ability to meet its regulatory capital requirements through the use of mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), trust preferred securities, or other “hybrid” securities, if applicable. At December 31, 2012, Ally had $857 million of MSRs and $2.5 billion of trust preferred securities, which were included as Tier 1 capital. Ally currently has no other “hybrid” securities outstanding. Pending final U.S. implementation of rules for Basel III and subsequent regulatory interpretation, there remains a degree of uncertainty on the full impact of Basel III.If we or Ally Bank fail to satisfy regulatory capital requirements, we or Ally Bank may be subject to serious regulatory sanctions ranging in severity from being precluded from making acquisitions or engaging in new activities to becoming subject to informal or formal supervisory actions by the FRB and/or FDIC and, potentially, FDIC receivership of Ally Bank. If any of these were to occur, such actions could prevent us from successfully executing our business plan and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position.Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies.The actions of the FRB and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising, and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict.In addition, our business and earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. The FRB’s policies influence the new and used vehicle financing market, which significantly affects the earnings of our businesses. The FRB’s policies also influence the yield on our interest earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict and could adversely affect our revenues, profitability, and financial condition.13Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KFuture consumer legislation could harm our competitive position.In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, various legislative bodies have also recently been considering altering the existing framework governing creditors’ rights, including legislation that would result in or allow loan modifications of various sorts. Such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business; limit or expand permissible activities; or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations.Ally and its subsidiaries are involved in investigations, and proceedings by government and self-regulatory agencies, which may lead to material adverse consequences.Ally and its subsidiaries, including Ally Bank, are and may become involved from time to time in reviews, investigations, and proceedings (both formal and informal), and information-gathering requests, by government and self-regulatory agencies, including the FRB, FDIC, Utah DFI, CFPB, SEC, and the Federal Trade Commission regarding their respective operations. Such requests include subpoenas from each of the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice. We continue to respond to subpoenas and document requests from the SEC, seeking information covering a wide range of mortgage-related matters, including, among other things, various aspects surrounding securitizations of residential mortgages. The subpoenas received from the U.S. Department of Justice include a broad request for documentation and other information in connection with its investigation of potential fraud and other potential legal violations related to mortgage backed securities, as well as the origination and/or underwriting of mortgage loans. In addition, the CFPB has recently advised us that they are investigating certain of our retail financing practices. These matters, or any other investigation or information-gathering request, may result in material adverse consequences including without limitation, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other actions.Our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected by the impact of affiliate transaction restrictions imposed in connection with certain financing transactions.Certain transactions between Ally Bank and any of its nonbank “affiliates,” including but not limited to Ally Financial Inc. are subject to federal statutory and regulatory restrictions. Pursuant to these restrictions, unless otherwise exempted, “covered transactions,” including Ally Bank’s extensions of credit to and asset purchases from its nonbank affiliates, generally (1) are limited to 10% of Ally Bank’s capital stock and surplus with respect to transactions with any individual affiliate, with an aggregate limit of 20% of Ally Bank’s capital stock and surplus for all affiliates and all such transactions; (2) in the case of certain credit transactions, are subject to stringent collateralization requirements; (3) in the case of asset purchases by Ally Bank, may not involve the purchase of any asset deemed to be a “low quality asset” under federal banking guidelines; and (4) must be conducted in accordance with safe-and-sound banking practices (collectively, the Affiliate Transaction Restrictions). Furthermore, there is an “attribution rule” that provides that a transaction between Ally Bank and a third party must be treated as a transaction between Ally Bank and a nonbank affiliate to the extent that the proceeds of the transaction are used for the benefit of, or transferred to, a nonbank affiliate of Ally Bank. Retail financing transactions by Ally Bank involving vehicles for which Ally provided floorplan financing are subject to the Affiliate Transaction Restrictions because the proceeds of the retail financings are deemed to benefit, and are ultimately transferred to, Ally.Under the Dodd-Frank Act, among other changes to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, credit exposures resulting from derivatives transactions, securities lending and borrowing transactions, and acceptance of affiliate-issued debt obligations (other than securities) as collateral for a loan or extension of credit will be treated as "covered transactions." The Dodd-Frank Act also expands the scope of covered transactions required to be collateralized and places limits on acceptable collateral.Historically, the FRB was authorized to exempt, in its discretion, transactions or relationships with affiliates from the requirements of these rules if it found such exemptions to be in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of the rules. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, exemptions now may be granted by the FDIC if the FDIC and FRB jointly find that the exemption is in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of the rules, and the FDIC finds that the exemption does not present an unacceptable risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund. The FRB granted several such exemptions to Ally Bank in the past. However, the existing exemptions are subject to various conditions and, particularly in light of the statutory changes made by the Dodd-Frank Act, any requests for future exemptions may not be granted. Moreover, these limited exemptions generally do not encompass consumer leasing or used vehicle financing. Since there is no assurance that Ally Bank will be able to obtain future exemptions or waivers with respect to these restrictions, the ability to grow Ally Bank’s business will be affected by the Affiliate Transaction Restrictions.Ally Financial Inc. may require distributions in the future from its subsidiaries.We currently fund Ally Financial Inc.’s obligations, including dividend payments to our preferred shareholders, and payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness, from cash generated by Ally Financial Inc. In the future, Ally Financial Inc. may not generate sufficient funds at the parent company level to fund its obligations. As such, it may require dividends, distributions, or other payments from its subsidiaries to fund its obligations. However, regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit the ability of Ally Financial Inc.’s subsidiaries to transfer funds freely to Ally Financial Inc. In particular, many of Ally Financial Inc.’s subsidiaries are subject to laws, regulations, and rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to it or that prohibit such transfers entirely in certain circumstances. These laws, regulations, and rules may hinder Ally Financial Inc.’s ability to access funds that it may need to make payments on its obligations in the future. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, Ally Financial Inc. may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations 14Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Kon its ability to pay dividends. The bank regulators have the authority and, under certain circumstances, the duty to prohibit or to limit payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including Ally Financial Inc. and its subsidiaries.Current and future increases in FDIC insurance premiums, including the FDIC special assessment imposed on all FDIC-insured institutions, could decrease our earnings.Beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2012, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund (the DIF). In May 2009, the FDIC announced that it had voted to levy a special assessment on insured institutions in order to facilitate the rebuilding of the DIF. In September 2009, the FDIC voted to adopt an increase in the risk-based assessment rate effective beginning January 1, 2011, by three basis points. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act alters the calculation of an insured institution’s deposit base for purposes of deposit insurance assessments and removes the upper limit for the reserve ratio designated by the FDIC each year. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule implementing these changes, which took effect on April 1, 2011. The FDIC will continue to assess the changes to the assessment rates at least annually. Future deposit premiums paid by Ally Bank depend on the level of the DIF and the magnitude and cost of future bank failures. Any increases in deposit insurance assessments could decrease our earnings.Risks Related to Our BusinessThe profitability and financial condition of our operations are heavily dependent upon the performance, operations, and prospects of GM and Chrysler.GM and Chrysler dealers and their retail customers compose a significant portion of our customer base, and our Dealer Financial Services operations are highly dependent on GM and Chrysler production and sales volume. In 2012, 63% of our U.S. new vehicle dealer inventory financing and 59% of our U.S. new vehicle consumer automotive financing volume were for GM franchised dealers and customers, and 28% of our U.S. new vehicle dealer inventory financing and 32% of our U.S. new vehicle consumer automotive financing volume were for Chrysler dealers and customers.We are currently party to agreements with each of GM and Chrysler that provide for certain exclusivity privileges related to subvention programs offered by each of them. On April 25, 2012, Chrysler provided us with notification of nonrenewal for the existing agreement, and as a result our agreement with Chrysler will expire in April 2013. Further, Chrysler has recently announced that it has entered into a ten-year agreement with Santander Consumer USA Inc. (Santander), pursuant to which Santander will provide a full range of wholesale and retail financing services to Chrysler dealers and consumers, beginning in May 2013. In addition, our agreement with GM will expire in December 2013. These agreements provided Ally with certain preferred provider benefits, including limiting the use of other financing providers by GM and Chrysler in their incentive programs. We cannot predict the ultimate impact that the expiration of these agreements will have on our operations. However, the expiration of these agreements will likely increase competitive pressure on Ally, as some competitors have or could have exclusive agreements with GM and/or Chrysler.On October 1, 2010, GM acquired AmeriCredit Corp. (which GM subsequently renamed General Motors Financial Company, Inc. (GMF)), an independent automotive finance company that focuses on providing leasing and subprime financing options. Further, and as previously announced, we have entered into an agreement with GMF pursuant to which GMF will purchase our automotive finance operations in Europe and Latin America, as well as our interest in a joint venture in China. As GMF continues to grow, and as GM directs additional business to GMF, it could reduce GM's reliance on our services over time, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. In addition, it is possible that GM or other automotive manufacturers could utilize other existing companies to support their financing needs including offering products or terms that we would not or could not offer, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. Furthermore, other automotive manufacturers could expand or establish or acquire captive finance companies to support their financing needs thus reducing their need for our services.A significant adverse change in GM’s or Chrysler’s business, including the production or sale of GM or Chrysler vehicles; the quality or resale value of GM or Chrysler vehicles; the use of GM or Chrysler marketing incentives; GM’s or Chrysler’s relationships with its key suppliers; or GM’s or Chrysler’s relationship with the United Auto Workers and other labor unions and other factors impacting GM or Chrysler or their respective employees, or significant adverse changes in their respective liquidity position and access to the capital markets; could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.There is no assurance that the global automotive market or GM’s and Chrysler’s respective share of that market will not suffer downturns in the future, and any negative impact could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position.Our business requires substantial capital and liquidity, and disruption in our funding sources and access to the capital markets would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, capital positions, and financial condition.Our liquidity and the long-term viability of Ally depend on many factors, including our ability to successfully raise capital and secure appropriate bank financing. We are currently required to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 15% at Ally Bank, which will require that Ally maintain substantial equity funds in Ally Bank and inject substantial additional equity funds into Ally Bank as Ally Bank’s assets increase over time.15Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KWe have significant maturities of unsecured debt each year. While we have reduced our reliance on unsecured funding, it continues to remain a critical component of our capital structure and financing plans. At December 31, 2012, approximately $1.3 billion in principal amount of total outstanding consolidated unsecured debt is scheduled to mature in 2013, and approximately $5.6 billion and $5.1 billion in principal amount of consolidated unsecured debt is scheduled to mature in 2014 and 2015, respectively. We also obtain short-term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes, all of which the holders may elect to have redeemed at any time without restriction. At December 31, 2012, a total of $3.1 billion in principal amount of Demand Notes were outstanding. We also rely on secured funding. At December 31, 2012, approximately $11.5 billion of outstanding consolidated secured debt is scheduled to mature in 2013, approximately $13.6 billion is scheduled to mature in 2014, and approximately $8.6 billion is scheduled to mature in 2015. Furthermore, at December 31, 2012, approximately $15.7 billion in certificates of deposit at Ally Bank are scheduled to mature in 2013, which is not included in the 2013 unsecured maturities provided above. Additional financing will be required to fund a material portion of the debt maturities over these periods. The capital markets continue to be volatile, and Ally’s access to the debt markets may be significantly reduced during periods of market stress. In addition, we will continue to have significant original issue discount amortization expenses (OID expense) in the near future, which will adversely affect our net income and resulting capital position. OID expense was $349 million in 2012, and the remaining scheduled amortization of OID is $261 million, $188 million, and $56 million in 2013, 2014, and 2015, respectively.As a result of the volatility in the markets and our current unsecured debt ratings, we have increased our reliance on various secured debt markets. Although market conditions have improved, there can be no assurances that this will continue. In addition, we continue to rely on our ability to borrow from other financial institutions, and many of our primary bank facilities are up for renewal on a yearly basis. Any weakness in market conditions and a tightening of credit availability could have a negative effect on our ability to refinance these facilities and increase the costs of bank funding. Ally and Ally Bank also continue to access the securitization markets. While markets have continued to stabilize following the 2008 liquidity crisis, there can be no assurances these sources of liquidity will remain available to us. Our indebtedness and other obligations are significant and could materially and adversely affect our business.We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2012, we had approximately $82.8 billion in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding (including $45.1 billion in secured indebtedness). Interest expense on our indebtedness constituted approximately 48% of our total financing revenue and other interest income for the year ended December 31, 2012. In addition, during the twelve months ending December 31, 2012, we declared and paid preferred stock dividends of $802 million in the aggregate.We have the ability to create additional unsecured indebtedness. If our debt service obligations increase, whether due to the increased cost of existing indebtedness or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes. Our indebtedness also could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.The worldwide financial services industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete successfully or if there is increased competition in the automotive financing and/or insurance markets or generally in the markets for securitizations or asset sales, our business could be negatively affected.The markets for automotive financing, banking, and insurance are highly competitive. The market for automotive financing has grown more competitive as more consumers are financing their vehicle purchases and as more competitors continue to enter this market as a result of how well automotive finance assets generally performed relative to other asset classes during the 2008 economic downturn. More recently, competition for automotive financing has further intensified as a growing number of banks have become increasingly interested in automotive-finance assets, which has resulted in pressure on our net interest margins. For example, on April 1, 2011, TD Bank Group announced the closing of its acquisition of Chrysler Financial, which could enhance Chrysler Financial’s ability to expand its product offerings and may result in increased competition. Ally Bank faces significant competition from commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage companies, and other financial institutions. Our insurance business faces significant competition from insurance carriers, reinsurers, third-party administrators, brokers, and other insurance-related companies. Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some of our competitors have lower cost structures, substantially lower costs of capital, and are much less reliant on securitization activities, unsecured debt, and other public markets. Our competitors may be subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legislative and regulatory regimes than we are, thus putting us at a competitive disadvantage to these competitors. We face significant competition in most areas including product offerings, rates, pricing and fees, and customer service. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate, our profitability and financial condition could be negatively affected.The markets for asset securitizations and whole-loan sales are competitive, and other issuers and originators could increase the amount of their issuances and sales. In addition, lenders and other investors within those markets often establish limits on their credit exposure to particular issuers, originators, and asset classes, or they may require higher returns to increase the amount of their exposure. Increased issuance by other participants in the market or decisions by investors to limit their credit exposure to (or to require a higher yield for) us or to automotive securitizations or whole-loans could negatively affect our ability and that of our subsidiaries to price our securitizations and whole-loan sales at attractive rates. The result would be lower proceeds from these activities and lower profits for our subsidiaries and us.16Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KOur allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition, and results of operations.We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expenses, which represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans, all as described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is established to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, accounting rules and related guidance, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses.Bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses, as well as our methodology for calculating our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations.The previously contemplated plan and settlement related to the ResCap bankruptcy has been allowed to lapse by ResCap, and as a result, there is substantial uncertainty related to resolution of the bankruptcy and substantial claims could be brought against us.On May 14, 2012 (the Petition Date), Residential Capital, LLC (ResCap) and certain of its wholly owned direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the Debtors) filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the Bankruptcy Court). In connection with the filings in May, Ally Financial Inc. and its direct and indirect subsidiaries and affiliates (excluding the Debtors) (collectively, AFI) had reached an agreement with the Debtors and certain creditor constituencies on a prearranged Chapter 11 plan (the Plan). The Plan included a proposed settlement (the Settlement) between AFI and the Debtors, which included, among other things, an obligation of AFI to make a $750 million cash contribution to the Debtor's estate, and a release of all existing or potential causes of action between AFI and the Debtors, as well as a release of all existing or potential ResCap-related causes of action against AFI held by third parties.The Settlement contemplated certain milestone requirements that the Debtors failed to satisfy, including the Bankruptcy Court's confirmation of the Plan on or before October 31, 2012. While the failure to meet this October 31 milestone would have resulted in the Settlement's automatic termination, AFI and the Debtors agreed to monthly temporary waivers of this automatic termination through February 28, 2013. This waiver was not extended beyond this date, and therefore the Settlement has terminated.As of the Petition Date, institutional investors in residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS Investors) issued by ResCap's affiliates and holding more than 25 percent of at least one class in each of 290 securitizations agreed to settle alleged representation and warranty claims against the Debtors' estates in exchange for a total $8.7 billion allowed claim in the Debtors' bankruptcy cases, subject to the applicable securitization trustees' acceptance of the terms of the settlements (the RMBS Settlements). The RMBS Investors also signed separate plan support agreements (PSAs) with the Debtors and AFI in support of the Plan at the time of entering into the RMBS Settlements. To date, RMBS Investors holding more than 25 percent of at least one class in each of 336 securitizations have agreed to the RMBS Settlements. These 336 securitizations have an aggregate original principal balance of approximately $189 billion (out of a total of 392 outstanding securitizations with an original principal balance of $221 billion). The RMBS Settlements are subject to Bankruptcy Court approval, and the Bankruptcy Court has scheduled a hearing to consider such approval in late May 2013. The PSAs are not part of this scheduled Bankruptcy Court hearing. A number of creditors have raised objections to the RMBS Settlements, but the trustees representing the 336 securitization trusts and AFI have filed statements in support of the Debtors' motion to approve the RMBS Settlements. Separately, the Debtors have failed to meet several Plan milestones in their bankruptcy cases, each of which has given the RMBS Investors the right to terminate the PSAs upon three business days advance written notice to the Debtors and AFI. The RMBS Investors have not given the Debtors and AFI such a notice to date, but have the right to do so at any time. If the RMBS Settlements were not approved or the RMBS Investors were to decide not to support any proposed plan, it could adversely impact the likelihood that any plan is approved by the Bankruptcy Court. AFI continues to support the RMBS Settlements at this time.On June 4, 2012, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. filed a motion in the Bankruptcy Court for the appointment of an independent examiner to investigate, among other things, certain of the Debtors' transactions with AFI occurring prior to the Petition Date, any claims the Debtors may hold against AFI's officers and directors, and any claims the Debtors proposed to release under the Plan. On June 20, 2012, the Bankruptcy Court approved the appointment of an examiner and, subsequently, the United States Trustee for the Southern District of New York appointed former bankruptcy judge Arthur J. Gonzalez, Esq. as the examiner (the Examiner). On July 27, 2012, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the scope of the Examiner's investigation. The investigation includes, among other things: (a) all material pre-petition transactions between or among the Debtors and AFI, Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and/or Ally Bank; (b) certain post-petition negotiations and transactions with the Debtors, including with respect to plan sponsor, plan support, and settlement agreements, the debtor-in-possession financing with AFI, the stalking horse asset purchase agreement with AFI, and the servicing agreement with Ally Bank; (c) all state and federal law claims or causes of action the Debtors proposed to release as part of the Plan; and (d) the release of all existing or potential ResCap-related causes of action against AFI held by third parties. In the Examiner's original work plan, the Examiner estimated that his investigation and related report would be completed six months from approximately August 6, 2012. However, on February 17Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-K7, 2013 the Examiner informed the Bankruptcy Court in the third supplement to the work plan that the investigation and related report will not be completed until early May 2013.On December 26, 2012, the Bankruptcy Court, in an effort to facilitate plan negotiations, entered an order appointing bankruptcy judge James M. Peck, Esq. as mediator to assist the parties in resolving certain issues relating to the formulation and confirmation of the Plan. There can be no assurance that the mediation process will continue or will ultimately lead to a successful agreement among the parties.On February 26, 2013, the official committee of unsecured creditors appointed in the Debtors' bankruptcy cases (the Creditors' Committee) filed with the Bankruptcy Court a response to the Debtors' motions for appointment of a chief restructuring officer and to extend their exclusive period to file a chapter 11 plan, which, among other things, states that the Creditors' Committee supports such extension through and including April 30, 2013, and during such time the Creditors' Committee will agree not to bring any claims against AFI. The response further states that the Debtors consent to the Creditors' Committee seeking standing in the Bankruptcy Court to prosecute and/or settle the Debtors' alleged claims against AFI and agree to settle claims against AFI only with Creditors' Committee consent. On February 27, 2013, the Debtors filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court seeking, for purposes of any proposed chapter 11 plan, that GMAC Mortgage's obligation to conduct and pay for independent file review regarding certain residential foreclosure actions and foreclosure sales prosecuted by GMAC Mortgage and its subsidiaries, as required under the Consent Order, be classified as a general unsecured claim in an amount to be determined, and that the automatic stay under the Bankruptcy Code be applied to prevent the FRB, the FDIC, and other governmental entities from taking any action to enforce the obligation against the Debtors. If the Bankruptcy Court approves the motion, such governmental entities are likely to seek to enforce the obligation against AFI, and any such obligations ultimately borne by AFI could be material. The Debtors have requested that the motion be heard at a hearing on March 21, 2013.We are currently named as defendants in various lawsuits relating to ResCap mortgage-backed securities and certain other mortgage-related matters, which are described in more detail in Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The majority of these matters are currently subject to orders entered by the Bankruptcy Court staying the matters through either March 31, 2012 or April 30, 2013. Unless the Debtors seek and obtain Bankruptcy Court approval to extend these stay orders, these matters are expected to proceed against us once the applicable stay orders expire.As a result of the termination of the Settlement, AFI is no longer obligated to make the $750 million cash contribution and neither party is bound by the Settlement. Further, AFI is not entitled to receive any releases from either the Debtors or any third party claimants, as was contemplated under the Plan and Settlement. However, AFI has not withdrawn its offer to provide a $750 million cash contribution to the Debtors' estate if an acceptable settlement can be reached. As a result of the termination of the Settlement, substantial claims could be brought against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.We are exposed to consumer credit risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.We are subject to credit risk resulting from defaults in payment or performance by customers for our contracts and loans, as well as contracts and loans that are securitized and in which we retain a residual interest. Furthermore, a weak economic environment and high unemployment rates could exert pressure on our consumer automotive finance customers resulting in higher delinquencies, repossessions, and losses. There can be no assurances that our monitoring of our credit risk as it affects the value of these assets and our efforts to mitigate credit risk through our risk-based pricing, appropriate underwriting policies, and loss-mitigation strategies are, or will be, sufficient to prevent a further adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. We have begun to increase our nonprime automobile financing. We define nonprime consumer automobile loans as those loans with a FICO score (or an equivalent score) at origination of less than 620. In addition, we have increased our used automobile financing. Borrowers that finance used vehicles tend to have lower FICO scores as compared to new vehicle borrowers, and defaults resulting from vehicle breakdowns are more likely to occur with used vehicles as compared to new vehicles that are financed. At December 31, 2012, the carrying value of our Automotive Finance operations nonprime consumer automobile loans before allowance for loan losses was $5.1 billion, or approximately 9.4% of our total consumer automobile loans. Of these loans, $62 million were considered nonperforming as they had been placed on nonaccrual status in accordance with internal loan policies. Refer to the Nonaccrual Loans section of Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. As we grow our nonprime automobile financing loans over time, our credit risk may increase. As part of the underwriting process, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and the misrepresentation is not detected before completing the transaction, the credit risk associated with the transaction may be increased.General business and economic conditions may significantly and adversely affect our revenues, profitability, and financial condition.Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. A downturn in economic conditions resulting in increased short and long term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in the debt capital markets, unemployment rates, consumer and commercial bankruptcy filings, or a decline in the strength of national and local economies and other factors that negatively affect household incomes could decrease demand for our financing products and increase financing delinquency and losses on our customer and dealer financing operations. We have been negatively affected due to the significant stress in the residential real estate and related capital markets and, in particular, the lack of home price appreciation in many markets in which we lend. Further, a significant and sustained increase in fuel prices could lead to diminished new and used vehicle purchases and negatively affect our automotive finance business.If the rate of inflation were to increase, or if the debt capital markets or the economies of the United States were to weaken, or if home prices or new and used vehicle purchases experience declines, we could be significantly and adversely affected, and it could become more 18Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Kexpensive for us to conduct our business. For example, business and economic conditions that negatively affect household incomes, housing prices, and consumer behavior related to our businesses could decrease (1) the demand for our new and used vehicle financing and (2) the value of the collateral underlying our portfolio of held-for-investment assets and new and used vehicle loans and interests that continue to be held by us, thus further increasing the number of consumers who become delinquent or default on their loans. In addition, the rate of delinquencies, foreclosures, and losses on our loans could be higher during more severe economic slowdowns.Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures, or losses could further harm our ability to sell our new and used vehicle loans, the prices we receive for our new and used vehicle loans, or the value of our portfolio of mortgage and new and used vehicle loans held-for-investment or interests from our securitizations, which could harm our revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Continued adverse business and economic conditions could affect demand for new and used vehicles, housing, the cost of construction, and other related factors that could harm the revenues and profitability of our business.The current debt crisis in Europe, the risk that certain countries may default on their sovereign debt, and recent rating agency actions with respect to European countries and the United States and the resulting impact on the financial markets, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial position.The current crisis in Europe has created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European Union countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. In the past several years, rating agencies have lowered their ratings on several euro-zone countries. The continuation of the European debt crisis has adversely impacted financial markets and has created substantial volatility and uncertainty, and will likely continue to do so. Risks related to this have had, and are likely to continue to have, a negative impact on global economic activity and the financial markets. The effects of the European debt crisis could be even more significant if a Eurozone country determines to depart the European Monetary Union, which would lead to redenomination of obligations of obligors in that country and cause foreign exchange, operational, and settlement disruptions. In addition, on August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America to ‘AA+’ from ‘AAA’, and the outlook on its long-term rating is negative. The U.S. downgrade, any future downgrades, as well as the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-related obligations, including uncertainty surrounding the U.S. federal deficit and debt ceiling debate, could impact our ability to obtain, and the pricing with respect to, funding that is collateralized by affected instruments and obtained through the secured and unsecured markets. As these conditions persist, our business, results of operation, and financial position could be materially adversely affected.Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions.Geopolitical conditions may affect our earnings. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions.The U.S. Department of Treasury (Treasury) holds a majority of the outstanding common stock.At February 28, 2013, Treasury held 981,971 shares of common stock, which represents approximately 74% of the voting power of the holders of common stock outstanding for matters requiring a vote of the holders of common stock. In addition, as of the date hereof, Treasury holds 118,750,000 shares of Series F-2 Preferred Stock (which are convertible into shares of common stock in accordance with Ally's certificate of incorporation), with an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $5.9 billion.Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Governance Agreement dated May 21, 2009, as of the date hereof, Treasury also has the right to appoint six of the eleven members to our board of directors. As a result of this stock ownership interest and Treasury's right to appoint six directors to our board of directors, Treasury has the ability to exert control, through its power to vote for the election of our directors, over various matters. To the extent Treasury elects to exert such control over us, its interests (as a government entity) may differ from those of our other stockholders and it may influence, through its ability to vote for the election of our directors, matters including:•the selection, tenure and compensation of our management;•our business strategy and product offerings;•our relationship with our employees and other constituencies; and•our financing activities, including the issuance of debt and equity securities.In particular, Treasury may have a greater interest in promoting U.S. economic growth and jobs than our other stockholders. In the future we may also become subject to new and additional laws and government regulations regarding various aspects of our business as a result of participation in the TARP program and the U.S. government's ownership in our business. These regulations and actions by directors could make it more difficult for us to compete with other companies that are not subject to similar regulations.19Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KThe limitations on compensation imposed on us due to our participation in TARP, including the restrictions placed on our compensation by the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation, may adversely affect our ability to retain and motivate our executives and employees.Our performance is largely dependent on the talent and efforts of our management team and employees. As a result of our participation in TARP, the compensation of certain members of our management team and employees is subject to extensive restrictions under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the ARRA), which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, as implemented by the Interim Final Rule issued by Treasury on June 15, 2009 (the IFR). In addition, due to our level of participation in TARP, pursuant to ARRA and the IFR, the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation has the authority to further regulate our compensation arrangements with certain of our executives and employees. In addition, we may become subject to further restrictions under any other future legislation or regulation limiting executive compensation. Many of the restrictions are not limited to our senior executives and affect other employees whose contributions to revenue and performance may be significant. These limitations may leave us unable to create a compensation structure that permits us to retain and motivate certain of our executives and employees or to attract new executives or employees, especially if we are competing against institutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. Any such inability could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our borrowing costs and access to the unsecured debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings.The cost and availability of unsecured financing are materially affected by our short- and long-term credit ratings. Each of Standard & Poor’s Rating Services; Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.; Fitch, Inc.; and Dominion Bond Rating Service rates our debt. Our current ratings as assigned by each of the respective rating agencies are below investment grade, which negatively impacts our access to liquidity and increases our borrowing costs in the unsecured market. Ratings reflect the rating agencies’ opinions of our financial strength, operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet our obligations. On February 2, 2012, Fitch downgraded our senior debt to BB- from BB and changed the outlook to negative. Future downgrades of our credit ratings would increase borrowing costs and further constrain our access to the unsecured debt markets and, as a result, would negatively affect our business. In addition, downgrades of our credit ratings could increase the possibility of additional terms and conditions being added to any new or replacement financing arrangements as well as impact elements of certain existing secured borrowing arrangements.Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security and may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the issuing organization. Each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency’s rating.Our profitability and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if the residual value of off-lease vehicles decrease in the future.Our expectation of the residual value of a vehicle subject to an automotive lease contract is a critical element used to determine the amount of the lease payments under the contract at the time the customer enters into it. As a result, to the extent the actual residual value of the vehicle, as reflected in the sales proceeds received upon remarketing at lease termination, is less than the expected residual value for the vehicle at lease inception, we incur additional depreciation expense and/or a loss on the lease transaction. General economic conditions, the supply of off-lease and other vehicles to be sold, new vehicle market prices, perceived vehicle quality, overall price and volatility of gasoline or diesel fuel, among other factors, heavily influence used vehicle prices and thus the actual residual value of off-lease vehicles. Consumer confidence levels and the strength of automotive manufacturers and dealers can also influence the used vehicle market. For example, during 2008, sharp declines in demand and used vehicle sale prices adversely affected our remarketing proceeds and financial results.Vehicle brand images, consumer preference, and vehicle manufacturer marketing programs that influence new and used vehicle markets also influence lease residual values. In addition, our ability to efficiently process and effectively market off-lease vehicles affects the disposal costs and proceeds realized from the vehicle sales. While manufacturers, at times, may provide support for lease residual values including through residual support programs, this support does not in all cases entitle us to full reimbursement for the difference between the remarketing sales proceeds for off-lease vehicles and the residual value specified in the lease contract. Differences between the actual residual values realized on leased vehicles and our expectations of such values at contract inception could have a negative impact on our profitability and financial condition.Significant indemnification payments or contract, lease, or loan repurchase activity of retail contracts or leases could harm our profitability and financial condition.We have repurchase obligations in our capacity as servicer in securitizations and whole-loan sales. If a servicer breaches a representation, warranty, or servicing covenant with respect to an automotive receivable, the servicer may be required by the servicing provisions to repurchase that asset from the purchaser or otherwise compensate one or more classes of investors for losses caused by the breach. If the frequency at which repurchases of assets or other payments occurs increases substantially from its present rate, the result could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations.20Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KA loss of contractual servicing rights could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations.We are the servicer for all of the receivables we have acquired or originated and transferred to other parties in securitizations and whole-loan sales of automotive receivables. We are paid a fee for these services, which fees in the aggregate constitute a substantial revenue stream for us. In each case, we are subject to the risk of termination under the circumstances specified in the applicable servicing provisions.In most securitizations and whole-loan sales, the owner of the receivables will be entitled to declare a servicer default and terminate the servicer upon the occurrence of specified events. These events typically include a bankruptcy of the servicer, a material failure by the servicer to perform its obligations, and a failure by the servicer to turn over funds on the required basis. The termination of these servicing rights, were it to occur, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations.Our earnings may decrease because of decreases or increases in interest rates.We are subject to risks from decreasing interest rates, particularly given the Federal Reserve’s recent steps to keep interest rates low in an attempt to improve economic growth. A low interest rate environment or a flat or inverted yield curve may adversely affect certain of our businesses by compressing net interest margins or reducing the amounts we earn on our investment securities portfolio, thereby reducing our net interest income and other revenues.Rising interest rates could also have an adverse impact on our business as well. For example, rising interest rates:•will increase our cost of funds;•may reduce our consumer automotive financing volume by influencing customers to pay cash for, as opposed to financing, vehicle purchases or not to buy new vehicles;•may negatively impact our ability to remarket off-lease vehicles; and•will generally reduce the value of automotive financing loans and contracts and retained interests and fixed income securities held in our investment portfolio.Throughout 2009 and 2010 the credit risk embedded in the balance sheet was reduced as a result of asset sales, asset markdowns, and a change in the mix of our loan assets as the legacy portfolios were replaced with assets underwritten to tighter credit standards. This reduction in risk has resulted in a mix of assets outstanding on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2012, with a lower yielding profile than the prior year. During this same period of time we experienced a significant decline in our consumer automotive operating lease portfolio that was realizing higher yields from remarketing gains due to historically high used vehicle prices. The combination of the above factors resulted in a decline in asset yields more than the decline in liability rates, and therefore the decline in the net interest spread on the balance sheet throughout 2010 and into 2011.Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with changes in interest rates and could affect our profitability and financial condition as could our failure to comply with hedge accounting principles and interpretations.We employ various economic hedging strategies to mitigate the interest rate and prepayment risk inherent in many of our assets and liabilities. Our hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets, liabilities, and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, we may experience volatility in our earnings that could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to find market participants that are willing to act as our hedging counterparties, which could have an adverse effect on the success of our hedging strategies.In addition, hedge accounting in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires the application of significant subjective judgments to a body of accounting concepts that is complex.A failure of or interruption in, as well as, security risks of the communications and information systems on which we rely to conduct our business could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely as a result of inadequate or failed processes or systems, human errors, employee misconduct, catastrophic events, or other external events could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer applications being received, slower processing of applications, and reduced efficiency in servicing. In addition, our communication and information systems may present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft. For example, similar to other large financial institutions, Ally's website, ally.com, was recently the subject of cyber attacks that resulted in slow performance and unavailability of the website for some customers. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business.We use estimates and assumptions in determining the fair value of certain of our assets. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, our cash flow, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected.We use estimates and various assumptions in determining the fair value of many of our assets, including certain held-for-investment and held-for-sale loans for which we elected fair value accounting, retained interests from securitizations of loans and contracts, MSRs, and other 21Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Kinvestments, which do not have an established market value or are not publicly traded. We also use estimates and assumptions in determining the residual values of leased vehicles. In addition, we use estimates and assumptions in determining our reserves for legal matters, insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses which represent the accumulation of estimates for both reported losses and those incurred, but not reported, including claims adjustment expenses relating to direct insurance and assumed reinsurance agreements. For further discussion related to estimates and assumptions, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates.” Our actual experience may differ materially from these estimates and assumptions. A material difference between our estimates and assumptions and our actual experience may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects.Fluctuations in valuation of investment securities or significant fluctuations in investment market prices could negatively affect revenues.Investment market prices in general are subject to fluctuation. Consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value and could negatively affect our revenues. Additionally, negative fluctuations in the value of available-for-sale investment securities could result in unrealized losses recorded in equity. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments, national and international events, and general market conditions.Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, and financial condition.Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by various parties, including accounting standard setters and those who interpret the standards, such as the FASB and the SEC, banking regulators, and our independent registered public accounting firm. Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, or financial condition.Recently, the FASB has proposed new financial accounting standards, and has many active projects underway, that could materially affect our reported revenues, profitability, or financial condition. These proposed standards or projects include the potential for significant changes in the accounting for financial instruments (including loans, deposits, allowance for loan losses, and debt) and the accounting for leases, among others. It is possible that any changes, if enacted, could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, or financial condition.The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty.Our inability to maintain relationships with dealers could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Our business depends on the continuation of our relationships with our customers, particularly the automotive dealers with whom we do business. If we are not able to maintain existing relationships with key automotive dealers or if we are not able to develop new relationships for any reason, including if we are not able to provide services on a timely basis or offer products that meet the needs of the dealers, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected.Adverse economic conditions or changes in laws in states in which we have customer concentrations may negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.We are exposed to consumer loan portfolio concentration in certain states, including California, Texas, and Florida. Factors adversely affecting the economies and applicable laws in these and other states could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.