Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Becoming a Bank Holding Company Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by new regulations to which we are subject as a result of becoming a bank holding company. On December 24, 2008, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approved our application to become a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. As a bank holding company, we are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision of the FRB. We are also subject to risk-based and leverage capital requirements, information reporting, and other regulatory requirements. In addition, GMAC’s banking subsidiary GMAC Bank is subject to regulation and examination primarily by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. This regulatory oversight is established to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Many of these regulatory requirements are new for us and will require significant expense and devotion of resources to fully implement processes that will be necessary to ensure continued compliance. It is possible that certain of our existing business activities will not be deemed to be permissible under applicable banking law. As a new bank holding company, we are permitted a two-year grace period to comply with these restrictions on activities. We may also apply for three one-year extensions. We are currently reviewing our business activities and may be required to make modifications that could have a material impact on our business. We are also subject to restrictions on transactions between GMAC Bank and its affiliates. For example, GM is currently an affiliate of GMAC Bank for purposes of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act (Section 23A). Section 23A prohibits GMAC Bank from purchasing certain low-quality assets from its affiliates or generally from engaging in specified “covered transactions” with any one affiliate that exceed 10% of its capital stock and surplus or with all of its affiliates that, in the aggregate, exceed 20% of its capital stock and surplus. In connection with our application to become a bank holding company, we requested and received from the Federal Reserve a limited exemption with respect to these restrictions as described above. However, until such time as either GM is no longer an affiliate of GMAC and GMAC Bank or we are unable to obtain further exemptions or waivers with respect to these restrictions, there will be substantial restrictions on the activities of GMAC Bank and our ability to fund a material amount of assets through GMAC Bank will be restricted. If we are unable to satisfy applicable regulatory capital requirements in the future, we could become subject to enforcement actions and/or FDIC receivership. As a bank holding company, if we fail to satisfy regulatory capital or other requirements, we may be subject to serious consequences ranging in severity from being precluded from making acquisitions, to becoming subject to formal enforcement actions by the Federal Reserve and FDIC receivership. If this were to occur, such actions could impair us from successfully executing our business plan and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. We may not be successful in implementing our business plan as a bank holding company. As a new bank holding company, we intend to undertake new business activities. Doing so is subject to inherent risks. There can be no assurance that we will be able to execute on these plans in a timely manner, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. 10 Table of Contents GMAC LLC Ÿ Form 10-K Other Risks Related to Our Business Our business and the businesses of our subsidiaries, including Residential Capital, LLC (ResCap), require substantial capital, and continued disruption in our funding sources and access to the capital markets would continue to have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Our liquidity and ongoing profitability are, in large part, dependent upon our timely access to capital and the costs associated with raising funds in different segments of the global capital markets. We depend and will continue to depend on our ability to access diversified funding alternatives to meet future cash flow requirements and to continue to fund our operations. Our funding strategy and liquidity position have been significantly adversely affected by the ongoing stress in the credit markets that began in the middle of 2007. These adverse conditions reached unprecedented levels through 2008, and have continued in recent months. The capital markets remain highly volatile and access to liquidity has been significantly reduced. These conditions, in addition to the reduction in our credit ratings, have resulted in increased borrowing costs and our inability to access the unsecured debt markets in a cost-effective manner. This has resulted in an increased reliance on asset-backed and other secured sources of funding, which also has been constrained in the current environment. Some of these facilities have not been renewed placing additional pressure on our liquidity position, and our inability to renew loans and facilities as they mature would have a further negative impact on our liquidity position. It could become more difficult to renew loans and facilities as many lenders and counterparties are also facing liquidity and capital challenges as a result of the current stress in the financial markets. We also have significant maturities of unsecured debt each year. Approximately $11.8 billion of our outstanding unsecured long-term debt matures in 2009, and $7.3 billion matures in 2010. In order to retire these instruments, we either will need to refinance this debt, which will be very difficult should the current volatility in the credit markets continue or worsen, or generate sufficient cash to retire the debt. Upon our approval to become a bank holding company, we received from the U.S. Department of Treasury a $5 billion investment under their Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Eligibility to participate in further government funding programs, such as the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the TLG Program), is subject to the approval of various governmental authorities, which may include the Federal Reserve Board, the U.S. Treasury and the FDIC, and such approvals are subject to numerous conditions. We may not be successful in completing the actions or satisfying the conditions required by the Federal Reserve to obtain approval for further government funding. GMAC’s inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, and financial position. Furthermore, we have recently provided a significant amount of funding to ResCap, and ResCap remains heavily reliant on support from us in meeting its liquidity and capital requirements. Any negative events with respect to ResCap could serve as a further drain on our financial resources. ResCap’s liquidity has also been adversely affected, and may be further adversely affected in the future, by margin calls under certain of its secured credit facilities that are dependent in part on the lenders’ valuation of the collateral securing the financing. Each of these credit facilities allows the lender, to varying degrees, to revalue the collateral to values that the lender considers to reflect market values. If a lender determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call requiring ResCap to post additional collateral to cover the decrease. When ResCap is subject to such a margin call, it must provide the lender with additional collateral or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings with minimal notice. Any such margin call could harm ResCap’s liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and business prospects. Additionally, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, ResCap may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause it to incur further losses and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, continued volatility in the capital markets has made determination of collateral values uncertain compared to historical experience, and many of ResCap’s lenders are taking a much more conservative approach to valuations. As a result, the frequency and magnitude of margin calls has increased, and we expect both to remain high compared to historical experience for the foreseeable future. Recent developments in the market for many types of mortgage products (including mortgage-backed securities) have resulted in reduced liquidity for these assets. Although this reduction in liquidity has been most acute with regard to nonprime assets, there has been an overall reduction in liquidity across the credit spectrum of mortgage products. As a result, ResCap’s liquidity has been and will continue to be negatively impacted by margin calls and changes to advance rates on its secured facilities. One consequence of this funding reduction is that ResCap may decide to retain interests in securitized mortgage pools that in other circumstances it would sell to investors, and ResCap will have to secure additional financing for these 11 Table of Contents GMAC LLC Ÿ Form 10-K retained interests. If ResCap is unable to secure sufficient financing for them, or if there is further general deterioration of liquidity for mortgage products, it will adversely impact ResCap’s business. Our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term and long-term credit ratings. Each of Standard & Poor’s Rating Services; Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.; Fitch, Inc.; and Dominion Bond Rating Service rates our debt. Most of the recent credit rating actions have been negative, and several of these agencies currently maintain a negative outlook with respect to our ratings. Ratings reflect the rating agencies’ opinions of our financial strength, operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet our obligations. Further downgrades of our credit ratings would further increase borrowing costs and constrain our access to unsecured debt markets, including capital markets for retail debt and, as a result, would negatively affect our business. In addition, future downgrades of our credit ratings could increase the possibility of additional terms and conditions being added to any new or replacement financing arrangements, as well as impact elements of certain existing secured borrowing arrangements. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security, and may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the issuing organization. Each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency’s rating. Our indebtedness and other obligations are significant and could materially adversely affect our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $126 billion in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. Interest expense on our indebtedness constitutes approximately 65% of our total financing revenues. In addition, under the terms of our current indebtedness, we have the ability to create additional unsecured indebtedness. If our debt payments increase, whether due to the increased cost of existing indebtedness or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes. Our indebtedness also could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. The profitability and financial condition of our operations are heavily dependent upon the performance, operations, and prospects of GM. A significant portion of our customers are those of GM and GM dealers and other GM-related employees. As a result, a significant adverse change in GM’s business, including significant adverse changes in GM’s liquidity position and access to the capital markets, the production or sale of GM vehicles, the quality or resale value of GM vehicles, the use of GM marketing incentives, GM’s relationships with its key suppliers, GM’s relationship with the United Auto Workers and other labor unions, and other factors impacting GM or its employees, or a GM bankruptcy, would have a significant adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. We provide vehicle financing through purchases of retail automotive and lease contracts with retail customers of primarily GM dealers. We also finance the purchase of new and used vehicles by GM dealers through wholesale financing, extend other financing to GM dealers, provide fleet financing for GM dealers to buy vehicles they rent or lease to others, provide wholesale vehicle inventory insurance to GM dealers, provide automotive extended service contracts through GM dealers, and offer other services to GM dealers. In 2008, our share of GM retail sales and sales to dealers were 32% and 81%, respectively, in markets where GM operates. As a result, GM’s level of automobile production and sales directly impacts our financing and leasing volume, the premium revenue for wholesale vehicle inventory insurance, the volume of automotive extended service contracts, and the profitability and financial condition of the GM dealers to whom we provide wholesale financing, term loans, and fleet financing. In addition, the quality of GM vehicles affects our obligations under automotive extended service contracts relating to such vehicles. Further, the resale value of GM vehicles, which may be impacted by various factors relating to GM’s business such as brand image or the number of new GM vehicles produced, affects the remarketing proceeds we receive upon the sale of repossessed vehicles and off-lease vehicles at lease termination. Our Global Automotive Finance operations are highly dependent on GM sales volume. In 2008, global vehicle sales declined rapidly, and there is no assurance that the global automotive market, or GM’s share of that market, will not suffer a significant further downturn. Vehicle sales volume could be further adversely impacted by any restructuring that would reduce the number of GM retail channels and core brands or consolidate GM’s dealer network. 12 Table of Contents GMAC LLC Ÿ Form 10-K In the event that GM or any of its significant subsidiaries were to file for bankruptcy, sales volume could decrease as a result of a reduction in consumer confidence, and GM’s business could be otherwise materially adversely affected. This would in turn have a materially adverse impact on our business. In addition, pursuant to contractual arrangements with GM, whenever GM offers vehicle financing and leasing incentives to customers (e.g., lower interest rates than market rates), it will do so exclusively through GMAC, subject to certain limitations and exceptions. In the event of a GM bankruptcy, it is possible that GM would reject this exclusivity arrangement with us. If GM did so, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. It is difficult to predict with certainty all the consequences of a GM bankruptcy. However, there may be systemic economic impacts, such as increased unemployment rates, that could further impact our business. We have substantial credit exposure to GM, and a GM bankruptcy could impact certain of our funding facilities. We have entered into various operating and financing arrangements with GM. As a result of these arrangements, we have substantial credit exposure to GM. As a marketing incentive, GM may sponsor residual support programs for retail leases as a way to lower customer’s monthly payments. Under residual support programs, the contractual residual value is adjusted above GMAC’s standard residual values. At lease origination, GM pays us the present value of the estimated amount of residual support it expects to owe at lease termination. When the lease terminates, GM makes a “true-up” payment to us if the estimated residual support payment is too low. Similarly, we make a true-up payment to GM if the estimated residual payment is too high and GM overpaid GMAC. Additionally, under what we refer to as lease “pull-ahead” programs, customers are sometimes encouraged by GM to terminate leases early in conjunction with the acquisition of a new GM vehicle. As part of these programs, we waive all or a portion of the customer’s remaining payment obligation under the current lease. Under most programs, GM compensates us for the foregone revenue from the waived payments. Since these programs generally accelerate our remarketing of the vehicle, the resale proceeds are typically higher than otherwise would have been realized had the vehicle been remarketed at lease contract maturity. The reimbursement from GM for the foregone payments is, therefore, reduced by the amount of this benefit. GM makes estimated payments to us at the end of each month in which customers have pulled their leases ahead. As with residual support payments, these estimates are trued-up once all the vehicles that could have been pulled ahead have terminated and been remarketed. To the extent that the original estimates were incorrect, GM or GMAC may be obligated to pay each other the difference, as appropriate under the lease pull-ahead programs. GM is also responsible for risk sharing on returned lease vehicles in the United States and Canada whose resale proceeds are below standard residual values (limited to a floor). In addition, GM may sponsor rate support programs, which offer rates to customers below the standard market rates at which we purchase retail contracts (such as 0% financing). Under rate support programs, GM is obligated to pay us the present value of the difference between the customer rate and our standard rates. The amount of this payment is determined on a monthly basis based on subvented contract originations in a given month, and payment for GM’s rate support obligation is due to us on the 15th of each following month. Our credit exposure to GM is significant. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $2.5 billion in secured exposure, which includes primarily wholesale vehicle financing to GM-owned dealerships, notes receivable from GM, and vehicles leased directly to GM. We further had approximately $1.9 billion in unsecured exposure, which includes estimates of payments from GM related to residual support and risk-sharing agreements. If GM were to file for bankruptcy, payment on our unsecured exposures could be delayed or might not occur at all. In addition, we would become an unsecured creditor of GM to the extent that proceeds from the sale of our collateral related to secured exposures are insufficient to repay GM’s obligations to us. Under the terms of certain agreements between GMAC and GM, GMAC has the right to offset certain of its exposures to GM against amounts GMAC owes to GM. In connection with our dealer floorplan securitizations, if GM either (1) becomes subject to liquidation under Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or a similar provision of state or federal law; or (2) ceases to operate as an automobile manufacturer or undertakes to sell all or substantially all of its automobile manufacturing assets or business, in either case, after a petition has been filed under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or a similar provision of state or federal law, then an early amortization event will occur with respect to such securitizations. Principal collections on the dealer accounts will be paid in accordance with the transactions documents, and no additional borrowings may be made during an early amortization period. In addition, if either of the two GM specific events were to occur as indicated above, an immediate event of default would occur under our $11.4 billion secured revolving credit facility that we entered into in June 2008. In this 13 Table of Contents GMAC LLC Ÿ Form 10-K circumstance, all amounts outstanding under this facility would become immediately due and payable and, if the amounts outstanding were not repaid, the collateral securing the facility could be sold by the lender under the facility. Our profitability and financial condition have been materially adversely affected by declines in the residual value of off-lease vehicles, and the residual value of off-lease vehicles may continue to decrease. Our expectation of the residual value of a vehicle subject to an automotive lease contract is a critical element used to determine the amount of the lease payments under the contract at the time the customer enters into it. As a result, to the extent the actual residual value of the vehicle, as reflected in the sales proceeds received upon remarketing at lease termination, is less than the expected residual value for the vehicle at lease inception, we incur additional depreciation expense and/or a loss on the lease transaction. General economic conditions, the supply of off-lease vehicles, and new vehicle market prices heavily influence used vehicle prices and thus the actual residual value of off-lease vehicles. Also contributing to the weakness in the used vehicle market are the historically low consumer confidence levels, which influence major purchases, and the weakening financial condition of auto dealers. During 2008, sharp declines in demand and used vehicle sale prices affected GMAC’s remarketing proceeds for these vehicles, and resulted in impairments totaling $1,234 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Weak residual values also contributed to total loss provisions of $626 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 on our balloon finance contract portfolio. These trends may continue or worsen. GM’s brand image, consumer preference for GM products, and GM’s marketing programs that influence the new and used vehicle market for GM vehicles also influence lease residual values. In addition, our ability to efficiently process and effectively market off-lease vehicles impacts the disposal costs and proceeds realized from the vehicle sales. While GM provides support for lease residual values, including through residual support programs, this support by GM does not in all cases entitle us to full reimbursement for the difference between the remarketing sales proceeds for off-lease vehicles and the residual value specified in the lease contract. Differences between the actual residual values realized on leased vehicles and our expectations of such values at contract inception could continue to have a negative impact on our profitability and financial condition. The occurrence of recent adverse developments in the mortgage finance and credit markets has adversely affected ResCap’s business, liquidity and its capital position and has raised substantial doubt about ResCap’s ability to continue as a going concern. ResCap has been negatively impacted by the events and conditions in the broader mortgage banking industry, most severely but not limited to the nonprime and nonconforming mortgage loan markets. Fair market valuations of mortgage loans held-for-sale, mortgage servicing rights, securitized interests that continue to be held by ResCap and other assets and liabilities ResCap records at fair value has significantly deteriorated due to weakening housing prices, increasing rates and severity of delinquencies and defaults of mortgage loans. These deteriorating factors have also resulted in higher provision for loan losses on ResCap’s mortgage loans held-for-investment and real estate-lending portfolios. The market deterioration has resulted in rating agency downgrades of asset- and mortgage-backed securities, which in turn has led to fewer sources of, and significantly reduced levels of, liquidity available to finance ResCap’s operations. Most recently, the widely publicized credit defaults and/or acquisitions of large financial institutions in the marketplace has further restricted credit in the United States and international-lending markets. ResCap is highly leveraged relative to its cash flow and continues to recognize substantial losses resulting in a significant deterioration in capital. There continues to be a risk that ResCap will not be able to meet its debt service obligations, default on its financial debt covenants due to insufficient capital and/or be in a negative liquidity position in 2009. ResCap remains heavily dependent on GMAC for funding and capital support, and there can be no assurance that GMAC will provide such support. In light of ResCap’s liquidity and capital needs, combined with volatile conditions in the marketplace, there is substantial doubt about ResCap’s ability to continue as a going concern. If GMAC determines to no longer support ResCap’s capital or liquidity needs, or ResCap is unable to successfully execute its other initiatives, it could have a material adverse effect on ResCap’s business, results of operations, and financial position. 14 Table of Contents GMAC LLC Ÿ Form 10-K ResCap has significant near-term liquidity issues. There is a significant risk that ResCap will not be able to meet its debt service obligations and other funding obligations in the near-term. ResCap expects continued liquidity pressures for at least the early part of the 2009. ResCap is highly leveraged relative to its cash flow. As of December 31, 2008, ResCap’s liquidity portfolio (cash readily available to cover operating demands from across its business operations and maturing obligations) totaled $0.5 billion. ResCap expects that additional and continuing liquidity pressure, which is difficult to forecast with precision, will result from the obligation of its subsidiaries to advance delinquent principal, interest, property taxes, casualty insurance premiums and certain other amounts with respect to mortgage loans ResCap services that become delinquent. Recent increases in delinquencies with respect to ResCap’s servicing portfolio has increased the overall level of such advances, as well as extending the time over which ResCap expects to recover such amounts under the terms of its servicing contracts. ResCap also must find alternate funding sources for assets that must periodically be withdrawn from some of its financing facilities as maximum funding periods for those assets expire. In addition, in connection with the recent restructuring of ResCap’s credit facilities, ResCap became subject to requirements to maintain minimum consolidated tangible net worth and consolidated liquidity balances in order to continue its access to those facilities. ResCap will attempt to meet these and other liquidity and capital demands through a combination of operating cash and additional asset sales. The sufficiency of these sources of additional liquidity cannot be assured, and any asset sales, even if they raise sufficient cash to meet ResCap’s liquidity needs, may result in losses that negatively affect our overall profitability and financial condition. Moreover, even if ResCap is successful in implementing all of the actions described above, its ability to satisfy its liquidity needs and comply with any covenants included in its debt agreements requiring maintenance of minimum cash balances may be affected by additional factors and events (such as interest rate fluctuations and margin calls) that increase ResCap’s cash needs making ResCap unable to independently satisfy its near-term liquidity requirements. We have extensive financing and hedging arrangements with ResCap, which could be at risk of nonpayment if ResCap were to file for bankruptcy. As of January 31, 2009, we had approximately $4.1 billion in secured financing arrangements (of which approximately $2.6 billion had been funded) and secured hedging agreements with ResCap, and we owned approximately $500 million of ResCap notes. Amounts outstanding under the secured financing and hedging arrangements fluctuate. If ResCap were to file for bankruptcy, ResCap’s repayments of its financing facilities, including those with us, could be slower than if ResCap had not filed for bankruptcy. In addition, we could be an unsecured creditor of ResCap to the extent that the proceeds from the sale of our collateral are insufficient to repay ResCap’s obligations to us. It is possible that other ResCap creditors would seek to recharacterize our loans to ResCap as equity contributions or to seek equitable subordination of our claims so that the claims of other creditors would have priority over our claims. As a holder of unsecured notes, we would not receive any distributions for the benefit of creditors in a ResCap bankruptcy before secured creditors are repaid. We may also find it advantageous to provide debtor-in-possession financing to ResCap in a bankruptcy proceeding in order to preserve the value of the collateral ResCap has pledged to us. In addition, should ResCap file for bankruptcy, our investment related to ResCap’s equity position would likely be reduced to zero. Based on January 31, 2009, balances, this would result in a $3.1 billion charge to our investment in ResCap. Current conditions in the residential mortgage market and housing markets may continue to adversely affect ResCap’s earnings and financial condition. Recently, the residential mortgage market in the United States, Europe, and other international markets in which ResCap conducts business has experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that adversely affected ResCap’s earnings and financial condition in full-year 2007 and in 2008. Delinquencies and losses with respect to ResCap’s nonprime mortgage loans increased significantly and may continue to increase. Housing prices in many parts of the United States, the United Kingdom and other international markets have also declined or stopped appreciating, after extended periods of significant appreciation. In addition, the liquidity provided to the mortgage sector has recently been significantly reduced. This liquidity reduction combined with ResCap’s decision to reduce its exposure to the nonprime mortgage market caused its nonprime mortgage production to decline, and such declines are expected to continue. Similar trends have emerged beyond the nonprime sector, especially at the lower end of the prime credit quality scale, and have had a similar effect on ResCap’s related liquidity needs and businesses in the United States, Europe, and other international markets. These trends have resulted in significant writedowns to ResCap’s mortgage loans held-for-sale and trading securities portfolios and additions to its 15 Table of Contents GMAC LLC Ÿ Form 10-K allowance for loan losses for its mortgage loans held-for-investment and warehouse-lending receivables portfolios. A continuation of these conditions, which we anticipate in the near term, may continue to adversely affect ResCap’s financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the continued deterioration of the U.S. housing market and decline in home prices in 2007 and 2008 in many U.S. and international markets, which we anticipate will continue for the near term, are likely to result in increased delinquencies or defaults on the mortgage assets ResCap owns and services. Further, loans that were made based on limited credit or income documentation also increase the likelihood of future increases in delinquencies or defaults on mortgage loans. An increase in delinquencies or defaults will result in a higher level of credit losses and credit-related expenses, as well as increased liquidity requirements to fund servicing advances, all of which in turn will reduce ResCap’s revenues and profits. Higher credit losses and credit-related expenses also could adversely affect ResCap’s financial condition. ResCap’s lending volume is generally related to the rate of growth in U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding and the size of the U.S. residential mortgage market. Recently, the rate of growth in total U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding has slowed sharply in response to the reduced activity in the housing market and national declines in home prices. A decline in the rate of growth in mortgage debt outstanding reduces the number of mortgage loans available for ResCap to purchase or securitize, which in turn could lead to a reduction in ResCap’s revenue, profits and business prospects. Our earnings may decrease because of increases or decreases in interest rates. • rising interest rates will increase our cost of funds; • rising interest rates may reduce our consumer automotive financing volume by influencing consumers to pay cash for, as opposed to financing, vehicle purchases, or not buying new vehicles; • rising interest rates may negatively impact our ability to remarket off-lease vehicles; • rising interest rates generally reduce our residential mortgage loan production as borrowers become less likely to refinance, and the costs associated with acquiring a new home becomes more expensive; • rising interest rates will generally reduce the value of mortgage and automotive financing loans and contracts and retained interests and fixed income securities held in our investment portfolio. We are also subject to risks from decreasing interest rates. For example, a significant decrease in interest rates could increase the rate at which mortgages are prepaid, which could require us to write down the value of our retained interests and mortgage servicing rights. Moreover, if prepayments are greater than expected, the cash we receive over the life of our mortgage loans held-for-investment, and our retained interests would be reduced. Higher-than-expected prepayments could also reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights and, to the extent the borrower does not refinance with us, the size of our servicing portfolio. Therefore, any such changes in interest rates could harm our revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with changes in interest rates and could affect our profitability and financial condition, as could our failure to comply with hedge accounting principles and interpretations. We employ various economic hedging strategies to mitigate the interest rate and prepayment risk inherent in many of our assets and liabilities. Our hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets, liabilities, and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, we may experience volatility in our earnings that could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. In addition, hedge accounting in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 133) requires the application of significant subjective judgments to a body of accounting concepts that is complex and for which the interpretations have continued to evolve within the accounting profession and amongst the standard-setting bodies. In our 2006 Form 10-K, we restated prior period financial information to eliminate hedge accounting treatment that had been applied to certain callable debt hedged with derivatives. 16 Table of Contents GMAC LLC Ÿ Form 10-K Our residential mortgage subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to us is restricted by contractual arrangements. On June 24, 2005, we entered into an operating agreement with GM and ResCap, the holding company for our residential mortgage business, to create separation between GM and us on the one hand, and ResCap, on the other. The operating agreement restricts ResCap’s ability to declare dividends or prepay subordinated indebtedness to us. This operating agreement was amended on November 27, 2006, and again on November 30, 2006, in conjunction with the Sale Transactions. Among other things, these amendments removed GM as a party to the agreement. The restrictions contained in the ResCap operating agreement include the requirements that ResCap’s total equity be at least $6.5 billion for dividends to be paid. If ResCap is permitted to pay dividends pursuant to the previous sentence, the cumulative amount of such dividends may not exceed 50% of ResCap’s cumulative net income (excluding payments for income taxes from our election for federal income tax purposes to be treated as a limited liability company), measured from July 1, 2005, at the time such dividend is paid. These restrictions will cease to be effective if ResCap’s total equity has been at least $12 billion as of the end of each of two consecutive fiscal quarters or if we cease to be the majority owner. In connection with the Sale Transactions, GM was released as a party to this operating agreement, but the operating agreement remains in effect between ResCap and us. At December 31, 2008, ResCap had consolidated total equity of approximately $2.2 billion. A failure of or interruption in the communications and information systems on which we rely to conduct our business could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer applications being received, slower processing of applications, and reduced efficiency in servicing. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. We use estimates and assumptions in determining the fair value of certain of our assets, in determining our allowance for credit losses, in determining lease residual values, and in determining our reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, our cash flow, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects could be materially adversely affected. We use estimates and various assumptions in determining the fair value of many of our assets, including certain loans held-for-investment for which we elected fair value accounting, retained interests from securitizations of loans and contracts, mortgage servicing rights, and other investments, which do not have an established market value or are not publicly traded. We also use estimates and assumptions in determining our allowance for credit losses on our loan and contract portfolios, in determining the residual values of leased vehicles, and in determining our reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses. It is difficult to determine the accuracy of our estimates and assumptions, and our actual experience may differ materially from these estimates and assumptions. As an example, the continued decline of the domestic housing market, especially (but not exclusively) with regard to the nonprime sector, has resulted in increases of the allowance for loan losses at ResCap for 2006 and 2007. A material difference between our estimates and assumptions and our actual experience may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects. Our business outside the United States exposes us to additional risks that may cause our revenues and profitability to decline. We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the United States which exposes us to risks. The risks associated with our operations outside the United States include: • multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; • difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing foreign operations; • differing labor regulations; 17 Table of Contents GMAC LLC Ÿ Form 10-K • consequences from changes in tax laws; and • political and economic instability, natural calamities, war, and terrorism. The effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our business could be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. We are exposed to risks related to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in currency exchange rates can have a significant impact on our earnings from international operations as a result of foreign currency translation adjustments. While we carefully watch and attempt to manage our exposure to fluctuation in currency exchange rates, these types of changes can have material adverse effects on our business and results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to credit risk, which could affect our profitability and financial condition. We are subject to credit risk resulting from defaults in payment or performance by customers for our contracts and loans, as well as contracts and loans that are securitized and in which we retain a residual interest. For example, the continued decline in the domestic housing market has resulted in an increase in delinquency rates related to mortgage loans that ResCap either holds or retains an interest in. Furthermore, a weak economic environment and the continued deterioration of the housing market could exert pressure on our consumer automotive finance customers resulting in higher delinquencies, repossessions, and losses. There can be no assurances that our monitoring of our credit risk as it impacts the value of these assets and our efforts to mitigate credit risk through our risk-based pricing, appropriate underwriting policies, and loss mitigation strategies are or will be sufficient to prevent a further adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. As part of the underwriting process, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and the misrepresentation is not detected before completing the transaction, the credit risk associated with the transaction may be increased. Fluctuations in valuation of investment securities or significant fluctuations in investment market prices could negatively affect revenues. Investment market prices in general are subject to fluctuation. Consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value that could negatively affect our revenues. Additionally, fluctuations in the value of investment securities available-for-sale could result in unrealized losses recorded in equity. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments, national and international events, and general market conditions. We may be required to repurchase contracts and provide indemnification if we breach representations and warranties from our securitization and whole-loan transactions, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. When we sell retail contracts or leases through whole-loan sales or securitize retail contracts, leases, or wholesale loans to dealers, we are required to make representations and warranties about the contracts, leases, or loans to the purchaser or securitization trust. Our whole-loan sale agreements generally require us to repurchase retail contracts or provide indemnification if we breach a representation or warranty given to the purchaser. Likewise, we are required to repurchase retail contracts, leases, or loans and may be required to provide indemnification if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. Similarly, sales of mortgage loans through whole-loan sales or securitizations require us to make representations and warranties about the mortgage loans to the purchaser or securitization trust. Our whole-loan sale agreements generally require us to repurchase or substitute loans if we breach a representation or warranty given to the purchaser. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or if a payment default occurs on a mortgage loan shortly after its origination. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans may be broader than those available to us against the original seller of the mortgage loan. Also, originating brokers and correspondent lenders often lack sufficient capital to repurchase more than a limited number of such loans and numerous brokers and correspondents are no longer in business. If a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to enforce the remedies we have against the seller of the mortgage loan to us or the borrower. 18 Table of Contents GMAC LLC Ÿ Form 10-K Like others in the mortgage industry, ResCap has experienced a material increase in repurchase requests. Significant repurchase activity could continue to harm our profitability and financial condition. Significant indemnification payments or contract, lease, or loan repurchase activity of retail contracts or leases or mortgage loans could harm our profitability and financial condition. We have repurchase obligations in our capacity as servicer in securitizations and whole-loan sales. If a servicer breaches a representation, warranty, or servicing covenant with respect to an automotive receivable or mortgage loan, the servicer may be required by the servicing provisions to repurchase that asset from the purchaser. If the frequency at which repurchases of assets occurs increases substantially from its present rate, the result could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. A loss of contractual servicing rights could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. We are the servicer for all of the receivables we have originated and transferred to other parties in securitizations and whole-loan sales of automotive receivables. Our mortgage subsidiaries service the mortgage loans we have securitized, and we service the majority of the mortgage loans we have sold in whole-loan sales. In each case, we are paid a fee for our services, which fees in the aggregate constitute a substantial revenue stream for us. In each case, we are subject to the risk of termination under the circumstances specified in the applicable servicing provisions. In most securitizations and whole-loan sales, the owner of the receivables or mortgage loans will be entitled to declare a servicer default and terminate the servicer upon the occurrence of specified events. These events typically include a bankruptcy of the servicer, a material failure by the servicer to perform its obligations, and a failure by the servicer to turn over funds on the required basis. The termination of these servicing rights, were it to occur, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations and those of our mortgage subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our consolidated mortgage servicing fee income was approximately $1.8 billion. The regulatory environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings. Our domestic operations are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions relating to supervision and regulation by state and federal authorities. Such regulation and supervision are primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers, not for the benefit of investors in our securities, and could limit our discretion in operating our business. Noncompliance with applicable statutes or regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of any license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties. Our operations are also heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the United States. For example, certain of our foreign subsidiaries operate either as a bank or a regulated finance company, and our insurance operations are subject to various requirements in the foreign markets in which we operate. The varying requirements of these jurisdictions may be inconsistent with U.S. rules and may materially adversely affect our business or limit necessary regulatory approvals, or if approvals are obtained, we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. In addition, in many countries the regulations applicable to the financial services industry are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact regulatory requirements. In light of current conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. For instance, in October 2008, Congress passed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which in turn created the Troubled Asset Relief Program and the Capital Purchase Program. We are unable to predict how these and any future programs will be administered or implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are also affected by the policies adopted by regulatory authorities and bodies of the United States and other governments. For example, the actions of the Federal Reserve and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict. 19 Table of Contents GMAC LLC Ÿ Form 10-K Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market with regard to the affected product and on our reputation generally. No assurance can be given that applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted, or that we will not be prohibited by local laws from raising interest rates above certain desired levels, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, and financial condition Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC. Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, or financial condition. General business and economic conditions may significantly and adversely affect our revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and in the markets in which we operate outside the United States. A downturn in economic conditions resulting in increased short- and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in the debt capital markets, unemployment rates, consumer and commercial bankruptcy filings, or a decline in the strength of national and local economies and other factors that negatively impact household incomes could decrease demand for our financing and mortgage products and increase mortgage and financing delinquency and losses on our customer and dealer financing operations. We have been negatively impacted due to (i) the significant stress in the residential real estate and related capital markets in 2007 and 2008, and, in particular, the lack of home price appreciation in many markets in which we lend and (ii) decreases in new and used vehicle purchases, which have reduced the demand for automotive retail and wholesale financing. If the rate of inflation were to increase, or if the debt capital markets or the economies of the United States or our markets outside the United States were to continue in their current condition or further weaken, or if home prices or new and used vehicle purchases continue at the currently reduced levels or experience further declines, we could continue to be adversely affected, and it could become more expensive for us to conduct our business. For example, business and economic conditions that negatively impact household incomes or housing prices could continue in their current condition or further decrease (i) the demand for our mortgage loans and new and used vehicle financing and (ii) the value of the collateral underlying our portfolio of mortgage and new and used vehicle loans held for investment and interests that continue to be held by us, and further increase the number of consumers who become delinquent or default on their loans. In addition, the rate of delinquencies, foreclosures, and losses on our loans (especially our nonprime mortgage loans) as experienced recently could be higher during more severe economic slowdowns. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures, or losses could further harm our ability to sell our mortgage and new and used vehicle loans, the prices we receive for our mortgage and new and used vehicle loans, or the value of our portfolio of mortgage and new and used vehicle loans held-for-investment or interests from our securitizations, which could harm our revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Continued adverse business and economic conditions could, and in the near-term likely will, further impact demand for housing, new and used vehicles, the cost of construction, and other related factors that have harmed, and could continue to harm, the revenues and profitability of our business capital operations. In addition, our business and earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. government and its agencies and similar governmental authorities in the markets in which we operate outside the United States. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. The FRB’s policies influence the new and used vehicle financing market and the size of the mortgage origination market, which significantly impacts the earnings of our businesses and the earnings of our business capital activities. The FRB’s policies also influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest bearing liabilities. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict, and could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents GMAC LLC Ÿ Form 10-K The worldwide financial services industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete successfully or if there is increased competition in the automotive financing, mortgage, and/or insurance markets or generally in the markets for securitizations or asset sales, our margins could be materially adversely affected. The markets for automotive and mortgage financing, insurance, and reinsurance are highly competitive. The market for automotive financing has grown more competitive as more consumers are financing their vehicle purchases, primarily in North America and Europe. Our mortgage business faces significant competition from commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage companies, and other financial institutions. Our insurance business faces significant competition from insurance carriers, reinsurers, third-party administrators, brokers, and other insurance-related companies. Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some of our competitors have lower cost structures, lower cost of capital, and are less reliant on securitization and sale activities. We face significant competition in various areas, including product offerings, rates, pricing and fees, and customer service. This competition may increase as we have recently increased pricing on certain lending activities. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate, our profitability and financial condition could be negatively affected. The markets for asset and mortgage securitizations and whole-loan sales are competitive, and other issuers and originators could increase the amount of their issuances and sales. In addition, lenders and other investors within those markets often establish limits on their credit exposure to particular issuers, originators and asset classes, or they may require higher returns to increase the amount of their exposure. Increased issuance by other participants in the market, or decisions by investors to limit their credit exposure to — or to require a higher yield for — us or to automotive or mortgage securitizations or whole loans, could negatively affect our ability and that of our subsidiaries to price our securitizations and whole-loan sales at attractive rates. The result would be lower proceeds from these activities and lower profits for our subsidiaries and us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 