Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur businesses face many risks and uncertainties, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We believe that the most significant of the risks and uncertainties that we face are described below. This Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.Risks Related to RegulationOur business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by regulations to which we are subject as a result of our bank holding company and financial holding company status. We are a bank holding company and a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act). Many of the regulatory requirements to which we are subject as a bank holding company were not applicable to us prior to December 2008 and have and will continue to require significant expense and devotion of resources to fully implement necessary policies and procedures to ensure continued compliance. Compliance with such regulations involves substantial costs and may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The 2008 financial crisis has resulted in bank regulatory agencies placing increased focus and scrutiny on participants in the financial services industry, including us. For a description of our regulatory requirements, see “Business — Certain Regulatory Matters.”Ally is subject to ongoing supervision, examination and regulation by the FRB, and Ally Bank by the FDIC and the Utah DFI, in each case, through regular examinations and other means that allow the regulators to gauge management’s ability to identify, assess, and control risk in all areas of operations in a safe-and-sound manner and to ensure compliance with laws and regulations. In the course of their supervision and examinations, our regulators may require improvements in various areas. Such areas could include, among others: board and senior management oversight, risk management, regulatory reporting, internal audit planning, capital adequacy process, stress testing, Bank Secrecy Act / anti-money laundering compliance, compliance management and training, compliance monitoring, and consumer complaint resolution. Ally is currently required by its regulators to make improvements related to its fair lending monitoring practices. Any requirement imposed is generally judicially enforceable, and if we are unable to implement and maintain any required actions in a timely and effective manner, we could become subject to formal supervisory actions that could lead to significant restrictions on our existing business or on our ability to develop any new business. Such forms of supervisory action could include, without limitation, written agreements, cease and desist orders, and consent orders and may, among other things, result in restrictions on our ability to pay dividends, requirements to increase capital, restrictions on our activities, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, and enforcement of such action through injunctions or restraining orders. We could also be required to dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period. The terms of any such supervisory action could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating flexibility, financial condition, and results of operations.As a financial holding company, we are permitted to engage in a broader range of financial and related activities than those that are permissible for bank holding companies, in particular, securities, insurance, and merchant banking activities. Ally's status as a financial holding company allows us to continue all existing insurance activities, as well as our SmartAuction vehicle remarketing services for third parties. Notwithstanding our status as a financial holding company, certain activities may require prior approval of the relevant banking supervisors. There can be no assurance that such prior approval will be obtained. To maintain its status as a financial holding company, Ally and its bank subsidiary, Ally Bank, must remain “well-capitalized” and “well-managed,” as defined under applicable law. If we fail to maintain our status as a financial holding company, our ability to engage in the broader range of activities permitted to financial holding companies may be restricted and we may be required to discontinue these activities or divest our bank subsidiary, Ally Bank.Our ability to execute our business strategy may be affected by regulatory considerations.Our business strategy for Ally Bank, which is primarily focused on automotive lending and growth of our direct-channel deposit business, is subject to regulatory oversight from a safety and soundness perspective. If our banking supervisors raise concerns regarding any aspect of our business strategy for Ally Bank, we may be obliged to alter our strategy, which could include moving certain activities, such as certain types of lending, outside of Ally Bank to one of our nonbanking affiliates. Alternative funding sources outside of Ally Bank, such as unsecured funding in the capital markets, could be more expensive than funding through Ally Bank and could adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. Further, our regulators require Ally Bank to maintain capital levels in excess of what management believes is needed, which affects Ally Bank’s ability to optimally deploy capital and execute certain business initiatives, and we will need to obtain regulatory approvals in order to maintain lower capital levels.We are subject to capital planning and systemic risk regimes, which impose significant restrictions and requirements.As a bank holding company with $50 billion or more of consolidated assets, Ally is required to conduct periodic stress tests and submit a proposed capital action plan to the FRB every January, which the FRB must take action on by the following March. The proposed capital action plan must include a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution, and any similar action that the FRB determines could have an impact on Ally’s consolidated capital. The proposed capital action plan must also include a discussion of how Ally will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios and above a Tier 1 common equity-to-total risk-weighted assets ratio of 5 percent, and serve as a source of strength to Ally Bank. The FRB's capital plan rule requires that Ally receive no objection from the FRB prior to making a capital distribution. The failure to receive no objection from the FRB would prohibit us from paying dividends and making other capital distributions. See "Business — Certain Regulatory Matters" for further details.11Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KIn addition, in February 2014, the FRB issued a final rule to implement certain of the enhanced prudential standards mandated by Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) for large bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of consolidated assets, such as Ally. The final rule will, among other things, require Ally to maintain a sufficient quantity of highly liquid assets to survive a projected 30-day liquidity stress event and implement various liquidity-related corporate governance measures; and impose certain requirements, duties, and qualifications for Ally's Risk Management Committee and Chief Risk Officer. The final rule will have a general compliance date of January 1, 2015. The enhanced prudential standards, when effective, could adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. Additionally, the FRB has stated that it will issue, at a later date, final rules to implement certain other enhanced prudential standards mandated by Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank act, including single counterparty credit limits and an early remediation framework. Once implemented and adopted, these rules could adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations, and financial condition.Our ability to rely on deposits as a part of our funding strategy may be limited.Ally Bank continues to be a key part of our funding strategy, and we have continued to place greater reliance on deposits as a source of funding through Ally Bank. Ally Bank does not have a retail branch network, and it obtains its deposits through direct banking and brokered deposits which, at December 31, 2013, included $8.2 billion of brokered certificates of deposit that may be more price sensitive than other types of deposits and may become less available if alternative investments offer higher interest rates. At December 31, 2013, brokered deposits represented 18% of Ally Bank total deposits. Our ability to maintain our current level of deposits or grow our deposit base could be affected by regulatory restrictions including the possible imposition of prior approval requirements, restrictions on deposit growth, or restrictions on our rates offered. In addition, perceptions of our financial strength, rates offered by third parties, and other competitive factors beyond our control, including returns on alternative investments, will also impact the size of our deposit base. In addition, our regulators may impose restrictions on our ability to fund certain types of assets at Ally Bank, potentially raising the cost of funding those activities without the use of Ally Bank deposits. Qualitative and quantitative liquidity requirements that are being proposed and finalized by the U.S. banking regulators may also impact our funding strategy.The regulatory environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings.Our domestic operations are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions relating to supervision and regulation by state and federal authorities. Such regulation and supervision are primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers, not for the benefit of investors in our securities, and could limit our discretion in operating our business. Noncompliance with applicable statutes, regulations, rules, or policies could result in the suspension or revocation of any license or registration at issue as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties.Ally, Ally Bank, and many of our nonbank subsidiaries are heavily regulated by bank and other regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. This regulatory oversight is established to protect depositors, the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund, and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Changes to statutes, regulations, rules, or policies including the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, rules, or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer, limiting our ability to pursue acquisitions and increasing the ability of third parties to offer competing financial services and products.Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market with regard to the affected product and on our reputation generally. No assurance can be given that applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted, or that we will not be prohibited by local laws or regulators from raising interest rates above certain desired levels, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating flexibility, financial condition, or results of operations.Financial services legislative and regulatory reforms may have a significant impact on our business and results of operations.The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July 2010, has and will continue to substantially change the legal and regulatory framework under which we operate. Certain portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, and others have become effective since enactment, while others are subject to further rulemaking and discretion of various regulatory bodies. The Dodd-Frank Act, when fully implemented, will have material implications for Ally and the entire financial services industry. Among other things, it would:•result in Ally being subject to enhanced oversight and scrutiny as a result of being a bank holding company with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets (large bank holding company);•increase the levels of capital and liquidity with which Ally must operate and affect how it plans capital and liquidity levels;•subject Ally to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees and any other similar assessments paid by Ally Bank to the FDIC;•potentially impact a number of Ally's business and risk management strategies;•potentially restrict the revenue that Ally generates from certain businesses;12Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-K•require Ally to provide to the FRB and FDIC an annual plan for its rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress; •subject Ally to regulation by the CFPB, which has very broad rule-making, examination, and enforcement authorities; and•subject derivatives that Ally enters into for hedging, risk management and other purposes to a comprehensive new regulatory regime which, over time, will require central clearing and execution on designated markets or execution facilities for certain standardized derivatives and impose margin, documentation, trade reporting and other new requirements.While U.S. regulators have finalized many regulations to implement various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, they plan to propose or finalize additional regulations for implementation in the future. In light of the further rulemaking required to fully implement the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the discretion afforded to federal regulators, the full impact of this legislation on Ally, its business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time and may not be known for a number of years. In addition, regulations may impact us differently in comparison to other more established financial institutions. However, these impacts are expected to be substantial and some of them are likely to adversely affect Ally and its financial performance. The extent to which Ally can adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not knowable at this time.Our business may be adversely affected upon our implementation of the revised capital requirements under the U.S. Basel III final rules.In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee) reached an agreement on the Basel III capital framework, which was designed to increase the quality and quantity of regulatory capital by introducing new risk-based and leverage capital standards. The U.S. banking regulators have finalized rules implementing the Basel III capital framework and related Dodd-Frank Act provisions. The U.S. Basel III final rules represent substantial revisions to the existing regulatory capital standards for U.S. banking organizations. Ally will become subject to the U.S. Basel III final rules beginning on January 1, 2015. Certain aspects of the U.S. Basel III final rules, including the new capital buffers and regulatory capital deductions, will be phased in over several years. The U.S. Basel III final rules will subject Ally to higher minimum risk-based capital ratios and capital buffers above these minimum requirements. Failure to maintain such buffers will result in restrictions on Ally’s ability to make capital distributions, including dividend payment, stock repurchases and redemptions, and pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. The U.S. Basel III final rules will, over time, require more stringent deductions for, among other assets, certain deferred tax assets (DTAs) from Ally’s Common Equity Tier 1 capital and limit Ally’s ability to meet its regulatory capital requirements through the use of trust preferred securities, or other “hybrid” securities (although certain debt or equity issued to the U.S. government under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act are grandfathered as Tier 1 capital). If we or Ally Bank fail to satisfy regulatory capital requirements, we or Ally Bank may be subject to serious regulatory sanctions ranging in severity from being precluded from making acquisitions or engaging in new activities to becoming subject to informal or formal supervisory actions by the FRB and/or FDIC and, potentially, FDIC receivership of Ally Bank. If any of these were to occur, such actions could prevent us from successfully executing our business plan and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. Effective January 1, 2015, the “well-capitalized” standard for Ally Bank will be revised to reflect the higher capital requirements in the U.S. Basel III final rules. To maintain its status as a financial holding company, Ally and its bank subsidiary, Ally Bank, must remain “well-capitalized” and “well-managed”, as defined under applicable law.Commencing with the current capital planning and stress testing cycle that began in October 2013, the Dodd-Frank company-run stress tests and FRB supervisory stress tests to which Ally is subject, the annual capital plan that Ally must submit and the FRB’s annual post-stress capital analysis under the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) must incorporate the more stringent capital requirements in the U.S. Basel III final rules as they are phased in over the nine-quarter forward-looking planning horizon. Under the FRB’s capital plan rule, an objection to a large bank holding company’s capital plan would prohibit it from paying dividends or making certain other capital distributions.Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies.Our business and earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. The FRB’s policies influence the new and used vehicle financing market, which significantly affects the earnings of our businesses. The FRB’s policies also influence the yield on our interest earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict and could adversely affect our revenues, profitability, and financial condition.Future consumer legislation or actions could harm our competitive position.In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, various legislative bodies have also recently been considering altering the existing framework governing creditors’ rights, including legislation that would result in or allow loan modifications of various sorts. Such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business; limit or expand permissible activities; or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations.13Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KAlly and its subsidiaries are involved in investigations, and proceedings by government and self-regulatory agencies, which may lead to material adverse consequences.Ally and its subsidiaries, including Ally Bank, are or may become involved from time to time in reviews, investigations, and proceedings (both formal and informal), and information-gathering requests, by government and self-regulatory agencies, including the FRB, FDIC, Utah DFI, CFPB, DOJ, SEC, and the Federal Trade Commission regarding their respective operations. Such requests include subpoenas from each of the SEC and the DOJ. The subpoenas and document requests from the SEC include information covering a wide range of mortgage-related matters, and the subpoenas received from the DOJ include a broad request for documentation and other information in connection with its investigations of potential fraud and other potential legal violations related to mortgage-backed securities, as well as the origination and/or underwriting of mortgage loans. Further, in December 2013, Ally Financial Inc. and Ally Bank entered into Consent Orders issued by the CFPB and the DOJ pertaining to the allegation of disparate impact in the automotive finance business, which resulted in a $98 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2013. The Consent Orders require Ally to create a compliance plan addressing, at a minimum, the communication of Ally’s expectations of Equal Credit Opportunity Act compliance to dealers, maintenance of Ally’s existing limits on dealer finance income for contracts acquired by Ally, and monitoring for potential discrimination both at the dealer level and across all dealers. Ally also must form a compliance committee consisting of Ally and Ally Bank directors to oversee Ally’s execution of the Consent Orders’ terms. Failure to achieve certain remediation targets could result in the payment of additional amounts in the future. Investigations, proceedings or information-gathering requests that Ally is, or may become, involved in may result in material adverse consequences including without limitation, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other actions. Our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected by the impact of affiliate transaction restrictions imposed in connection with certain financing transactions.Certain transactions between Ally Bank and any of its nonbank “affiliates,” including but not limited to Ally Financial Inc. are subject to federal statutory and regulatory restrictions. Pursuant to these restrictions, unless otherwise exempted, “covered transactions,” including Ally Bank’s extensions of credit to and asset purchases from its nonbank affiliates, generally (1) are limited to 10% of Ally Bank’s capital stock and surplus with respect to transactions with any individual affiliate, with an aggregate limit of 20% of Ally Bank’s capital stock and surplus for all affiliates and all such transactions; (2) in the case of certain credit transactions, are subject to stringent collateralization requirements; (3) in the case of asset purchases by Ally Bank, may not involve the purchase of any asset deemed to be a “low quality asset” under federal banking guidelines; and (4) must be conducted in accordance with safe-and-sound banking practices (collectively, the Affiliate Transaction Restrictions). Furthermore, there is an “attribution rule” that provides that a transaction between Ally Bank and a third party must be treated as a transaction between Ally Bank and a nonbank affiliate to the extent that the proceeds of the transaction are used for the benefit of, or transferred to, a nonbank affiliate of Ally Bank. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, among other changes to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, credit exposures resulting from derivatives transactions, securities lending and borrowing transactions, and acceptance of affiliate-issued debt obligations (other than securities) as collateral for a loan or extension of credit will be treated as "covered transactions." The Dodd-Frank Act also expands the scope of covered transactions required to be collateralized and places limits on acceptable collateral.The ability to grow Ally Bank’s business in the future could be affected by the Affiliate Transaction Restrictions.Ally Financial Inc. may require distributions in the future from its subsidiaries.We currently fund Ally Financial Inc.’s obligations, including dividend payments to our preferred shareholders, and payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness, from cash generated by Ally Financial Inc. In the future, Ally Financial Inc. may not generate sufficient funds at the parent company level to fund its obligations. As such, it may require dividends, distributions, or other payments from its subsidiaries to fund its obligations. However, regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit the ability of Ally Financial Inc.’s subsidiaries to transfer funds freely to Ally Financial Inc. In particular, many of Ally Financial Inc.’s subsidiaries are subject to laws, regulations, and rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to it or that prohibit such transfers entirely in certain circumstances. These laws, regulations, and rules may hinder Ally Financial Inc.’s ability to access funds that it may need to make payments on its obligations in the future. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, Ally Financial Inc. may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on its ability to pay dividends. The bank regulators have the authority and, under certain circumstances, the duty to prohibit or to limit payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including Ally Financial Inc. and its subsidiaries.Risks Related to Our BusinessThe profitability and financial condition of our operations are heavily dependent upon the performance, operations, and prospects of the overall U.S. automotive market, and also upon GM and Chrysler.GM and Chrysler dealers and their retail customers compose a significant portion of our customer base, and our Dealer Financial Services operations are highly dependent on GM and Chrysler production and sales volume. In 2013, 62% of our U.S. new vehicle dealer inventory financing and 69% of our U.S. new vehicle consumer automotive financing volume were for GM franchised dealers and customers, and 27% of our U.S. new vehicle dealer inventory financing and 22% of our U.S. new vehicle consumer automotive financing volume were for Chrysler dealers and customers.14Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KOn October 1, 2010, GM acquired AmeriCredit Corp. (which GM subsequently renamed General Motors Financial Company, Inc. (GMF)), an independent automotive finance company. Further, during 2013 we completed the sale of our automotive finance operations in Europe and Latin America to GMF and expect to complete the sale of our interest in the joint venture in China to GMF in the next twelve months. As GMF continues to grow and offer new products, and as GM directs additional business to GMF, it could reduce GM's reliance on our services over time, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. In addition, GMF has begun to offer certain insurance products that we also offer. In addition, GM or other automotive manufacturers could utilize other existing companies to support their financing needs including offering products or terms that we would not or could not offer, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. Furthermore, other automotive manufacturers could expand or establish or acquire captive finance companies to support their financing needs thus reducing their need for our services.A significant adverse change in GM’s or Chrysler’s business, including the production or sale of GM or Chrysler vehicles; the quality or resale value of GM or Chrysler vehicles; the use of GM or Chrysler marketing incentives; GM’s or Chrysler’s relationships with its key suppliers; or GM’s or Chrysler’s relationship with the United Auto Workers and other labor unions and other factors impacting GM or Chrysler or their respective employees, or significant adverse changes in their respective liquidity position and access to the capital markets; could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.There is no assurance that the automotive market or GM’s and Chrysler’s respective share of that market will not suffer downturns in the future, and any negative impact could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position.Our agreements with GM and Chrysler that provided for certain exclusivity privileges have expired. The expiration of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.We were previously party to agreements with each of GM and Chrysler that provided for certain exclusivity privileges related to subvention programs that they offered. On April 25, 2012, Chrysler provided us with notification of nonrenewal for our existing agreement with them, and as a result, our agreement with Chrysler expired in April 2013. Further, in May 2013 Chrysler announced that it has entered into a ten-year agreement with Santander Consumer USA Inc. (Santander), pursuant to which Santander will provide a full range of wholesale and retail financing services to Chrysler dealers and consumers. Since this time, our originations of Chrysler subvented retail financing and subvented leases have ceased and resulted in a reduction of originations from the Chrysler channel. In addition, our agreement with GM expired effective February 28, 2014. These agreements provided Ally with certain preferred provider benefits, including limiting the use of other financing providers by GM and Chrysler for their incentive programs. While we have entered into a new agreement with GM relating to certain matters, such agreement does not provide Ally with any exclusivity or similar privileges related to the financing of GM vehicles, whether through subvention programs or otherwise. As a result, our existing agreement with GM does not provide the economic benefits or impose the obligations that were included within our prior agreement with GM. We cannot predict the ultimate impact that the expiration of prior agreements or the terms of the new GM Agreement will have on our operations. However, the expiration of these agreements and the terms of the new GM agreement are likely to continue to increase competitive pressure on Ally. Our share of financing for GM consumer sales decreased from 38% in 2011 to 29% in 2013, and our share of financing for Chrysler consumer sales decreased from 32% in 2011 to 14% in 2013. Our inability to maintain relationships with dealers could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Our business depends on the continuation of our relationships with our customers, particularly the automotive dealers with whom we do business. While the number of dealers that we have retail relationships with has held relatively flat during 2013, the number of dealers that we have wholesale relationships with has decreased approximately 10% as compared to December 31, 2012. Further, our share of GM commercial wholesale financing decreased from 78% in 2011 to 67% in 2013, and our share of Chrysler commercial wholesale financing decreased from 67% in 2011 to 50% in 2013. If we are not able to maintain existing relationships with key automotive dealers or if we are not able to develop new relationships for any reason, including if we are not able to provide services on a timely basis or offer products that meet the needs of the dealers, this trend related to wholesale funding may continue, and the number dealers with which we have retail funding relationships could also decline in the future. As a result, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected in the future.Our business requires substantial capital and liquidity, and disruption in our funding sources and access to the capital markets would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, capital positions, and financial condition.Our liquidity and the long-term viability of Ally depend on many factors, including our ability to successfully raise capital and secure appropriate bank financing. We are currently required to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 15% at Ally Bank, which will require that Ally maintain substantial capital levels in Ally Bank.We have significant maturities of unsecured debt each year. While we have reduced our reliance on unsecured funding, it continues to remain a critical component of our capital structure and financing plans. At December 31, 2013, approximately $5.5 billion in principal amount of total outstanding consolidated unsecured debt is scheduled to mature in 2014, and approximately $5.2 billion and $1.9 billion in principal amount of consolidated unsecured debt is scheduled to mature in 2015 and 2016, respectively. We also obtain short-term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes, all of which the holders may elect to have redeemed at any time without restriction. At December 31, 2013, a total of $3.2 billion in principal amount of Demand Notes were outstanding. We also rely substantially on secured funding. At December 31, 2013, approximately $11.9 billion of outstanding consolidated secured debt is scheduled to mature in 2014, approximately 15Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-K$13.8 billion is scheduled to mature in 2015, and approximately $7.9 billion is scheduled to mature in 2016. Furthermore, at December 31, 2013, approximately $15.5 billion in certificates of deposit at Ally Bank are scheduled to mature in 2014, which is not included in the 2014 unsecured maturities provided above. Additional financing will be required to fund a material portion of the debt maturities over these periods. The capital markets can be volatile, and Ally’s access to the debt markets may be significantly reduced during periods of market stress. As a result of volatility in the markets and our current unsecured debt ratings, we have increased our reliance on various secured debt markets. Although market conditions have improved, there can be no assurances that this will continue. In addition, we continue to rely on our ability to borrow from other financial institutions, and many of our primary bank facilities are up for renewal on a yearly basis. Any weakness in market conditions and a tightening of credit availability could have a negative effect on our ability to refinance these facilities and increase the costs of bank funding. Ally and Ally Bank also continue to access the securitization markets. While markets have continued to stabilize following the 2008 liquidity crisis, there can be no assurances these sources of liquidity will remain available to us.Our indebtedness and other obligations are significant and could materially and adversely affect our business.We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $79.2 billion in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding (including $47.6 billion in secured indebtedness). Interest expense on our indebtedness constituted approximately 33% of our total financing revenue and other interest income for the year ended December 31, 2013. In addition, during the twelve months ending December 31, 2013, we declared and paid preferred stock dividends of $810 million in the aggregate.We have the ability to create additional unsecured indebtedness. If our debt service obligations increase, whether due to the increased cost of existing indebtedness or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes. Our indebtedness also could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.The financial services industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete successfully or if there is increased competition in the automotive financing and/or insurance markets or generally in the markets for securitizations or asset sales, our business could be negatively affected.The markets for automotive financing, banking, and insurance are highly competitive. The market for automotive financing has grown substantially more competitive as more consumers are financing their vehicle purchases and as more competitors continue to enter this market as a result of how well automotive finance assets generally performed relative to other asset classes during the 2008 economic downturn. Competition for automotive financing has further intensified as a growing number of banks have become increasingly interested in automotive-finance assets, which has resulted in pressure on our net interest margins. For example, on April 1, 2011, TD Bank Group announced the closing of its acquisition of Chrysler Financial, which could enhance Chrysler Financial’s ability to expand its product offerings and may result in increased competition. Ally Bank faces significant competition from commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage companies, and other financial institutions. Our insurance business faces significant competition from insurance carriers, reinsurers, third-party administrators, brokers, and other insurance-related companies. Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some of our competitors have lower cost structures, substantially lower costs of capital, and are much less reliant on securitization activities, unsecured debt, and other public markets. Our competitors may be subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legislative and regulatory regimes than we are, thus putting us at a competitive disadvantage to these competitors. We face significant competition in most areas including product offerings, rates, pricing and fees, and customer service. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate, our profitability and financial condition would be negatively affected.The markets for asset securitizations and whole-loan sales are competitive, and other issuers and originators could increase the amount of their issuances and sales. In addition, lenders and other investors within those markets often establish limits on their credit exposure to particular issuers, originators, and asset classes, or they may require higher returns to increase the amount of their exposure. Increased issuance by other participants in the market or decisions by investors to limit their credit exposure to (or to require a higher yield for) us or to automotive securitizations or whole-loans could negatively affect our ability and that of our subsidiaries to price our securitizations and whole-loan sales at attractive rates. The result would be lower proceeds from these activities and lower profits for our subsidiaries and us.Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition, and results of operations.We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expenses, which represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans, all as described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is established to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, accounting rules and related guidance, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, our continued expansion of our originations across a broader credit spectrum is expected to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future.16Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KBank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses, as well as our methodology for calculating our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition, and results of operations.We are exposed to consumer credit risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.We are subject to credit risk resulting from defaults in payment or performance by customers for our contracts and loans, as well as contracts and loans that are securitized and in which we retain a residual interest. Furthermore, a weak economic environment and high unemployment rates could exert pressure on our consumer automotive finance customers resulting in higher delinquencies, repossessions, and losses. There can be no assurances that our monitoring of our credit risk as it affects the value of these assets and our efforts to mitigate credit risk through our risk-based pricing, appropriate underwriting policies, and loss-mitigation strategies are, or will be, sufficient to prevent a further adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. We have continued to expand our nonprime automobile financing. We define nonprime consumer automobile loans primarily as those loans with a FICO score (or an equivalent score) at origination of less than 620. In addition, we have increased our used vehicle financing. Customers that finance used vehicles tend to have lower FICO scores as compared to new vehicle customers, and defaults resulting from vehicle breakdowns are more likely to occur with used vehicles as compared to new vehicles that are financed. At December 31, 2013, the carrying value of our Automotive Finance operations nonprime consumer automobile loans before allowance for loan losses was $6.0 billion, or approximately 10.7% of our total consumer automobile loans. Of these loans, $91 million were considered nonperforming as they had been placed on nonaccrual status in accordance with internal loan policies. Refer to the Nonaccrual Loans section of Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. As we continue to grow our nonprime automobile financing loans over time, our credit risk may increase. As part of the underwriting process, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and the misrepresentation is not detected before completing the transaction, the credit risk associated with the transaction may be increased.Our profitability and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if the residual value of off-lease vehicles decrease in the future.Lease originations are increasingly a substantial portion of our consumer financing originations. In particular, our GM lease originations grew to 23% in 2013 of our consumer financing originations from 13% in 2011. Our expectation of the residual value of a vehicle subject to an automotive lease contract is a critical element used to determine the amount of the lease payments under the contract at the time the customer enters into it. As a result, to the extent the actual residual value of the vehicle, as reflected in the sales proceeds received upon remarketing at lease termination, is less than the expected residual value for the vehicle at lease inception, we incur additional depreciation expense and/or a loss on the lease transaction. General economic conditions, the supply of off-lease and other vehicles to be sold, new vehicle market prices, perceived vehicle quality, overall price and volatility of gasoline or diesel fuel, among other factors, heavily influence used vehicle prices and thus the actual residual value of off-lease vehicles. Consumer confidence levels and the strength of automotive manufacturers and dealers can also influence the used vehicle market. For example, during 2008, sharp declines in demand and used vehicle sale prices adversely affected our remarketing proceeds and financial results.Vehicle brand images, consumer preference, and vehicle manufacturer marketing programs that influence new and used vehicle markets also influence lease residual values. In addition, our ability to efficiently process and effectively market off-lease vehicles affects the disposal costs and proceeds realized from the vehicle sales. While manufacturers, at times, may provide support for lease residual values including through residual support programs, this support does not in all cases entitle us to full reimbursement for the difference between the remarketing sales proceeds for off-lease vehicles and the residual value specified in the lease contract. Differences between the actual residual values realized on leased vehicles and our expectations of such values at contract inception could have a material negative impact on our profitability and financial condition.General business and economic conditions may significantly and adversely affect our revenues, profitability, and financial condition.Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. A downturn in economic conditions resulting in increased short- and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in the debt capital markets, unemployment rates, housing prices, consumer and commercial bankruptcy filings, or a decline in the strength of national and local economies and other factors that negatively affect household incomes could decrease demand for our financing products and increase financing delinquency and losses on our customer and dealer financing operations. Further, a significant and sustained increase in fuel prices could lead to diminished new and used vehicle purchases and negatively affect our automotive finance business. Finally, concerns about the pace of economic growth in the U.S. and elsewhere and uncertainty regarding U.S. fiscal and monetary policies and the federal deficit, have resulted in significant volatility in the financial markets, and could impact our ability to obtain, and the pricing with respect to, funding that is collateralized by affected instruments and obtained through the secured and unsecured markets. As these conditions persist, our business, results of operation, and financial position could be materially adversely affected. If the rate of inflation were to increase, or if the debt capital markets or the economy of the United States were to weaken, or if home prices or new and used vehicle purchases experience declines, we could be significantly and adversely affected, and it could become more expensive for us to conduct our business. For example, business and economic conditions that negatively affect household incomes, housing prices, and consumer behavior related to our businesses could decrease (1) the demand for our new and used vehicle financing and (2) the value of the collateral underlying our portfolio of held-for-investment assets and new and used vehicle loans and interests that continue to be 17Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-Kheld by us, thus further increasing the number of consumers who become delinquent or default on their loans. In addition, the rate of delinquencies, foreclosures, and losses on our loans could be higher during more severe economic slowdowns.Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures, or losses could further harm our ability to sell our new and used vehicle loans, the prices we receive for our new and used vehicle loans, or the value of our portfolio of mortgage and new and used vehicle loans held-for-investment or interests from our securitizations, which could harm our revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Continued adverse business and economic conditions could affect demand for new and used vehicles, housing, the cost of construction, and other related factors that could harm the revenues and profitability of our business.Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions.Geopolitical conditions may affect our earnings. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions.The U.S. Department of Treasury (Treasury) holds a significant amount of our outstanding common stock.At February 28, 2014, Treasury held 571,971 shares of common stock, which represents approximately 37% of the voting power of the holders of common stock outstanding for matters requiring a vote of the holders of common stock.Pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement dated August 19, 2013, as of the date hereof, Treasury also has the right to appoint four of the eleven members to our board of directors. As a result of this stock ownership interest and Treasury's right to appoint four directors to our board of directors, Treasury has the ability to exert control, through its power to vote for the election of our directors, over various matters. To the extent Treasury elects to exert such control over us, its interests (as a government entity) may differ from those of our other stockholders and it may influence, through its ability to vote for the election of our directors, matters including:•the selection, tenure and compensation of our management; •our business strategy and product offerings; •our relationship with our employees and other constituencies; and•our financing activities, including the issuance of debt and equity securities. In the future we may also become subject to new and additional laws and government regulations regarding various aspects of our business as a result of participation in the TARP program and the U.S. government's ownership in our business. These regulations could make it more difficult for us to compete with other companies that are not subject to similar regulations.The limitations on compensation imposed on us due to our participation in TARP, including the restrictions placed on our compensation by the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation, may adversely affect our ability to retain and motivate our executives and employees.Our performance is largely dependent on the talent and efforts of our management team and employees. As a result of our participation in TARP, the compensation of certain members of our management team and employees is subject to extensive restrictions under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the ARRA), which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, as implemented by the Interim Final Rule issued by Treasury on June 15, 2009 (the IFR). In addition, due to our participation in TARP, pursuant to ARRA and the IFR, the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation has the authority to further regulate our compensation arrangements with certain of our executives and employees. In addition, we may become subject to further restrictions under any other future legislation or regulation limiting executive compensation. Many of the restrictions are not limited to our senior executives and affect other employees whose contributions to revenue and performance may be significant. These limitations may leave us unable to create a compensation structure that permits us to retain and motivate certain of our executives and employees or to attract new executives or employees, especially if we are competing against institutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. Any such inability could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our borrowing costs and access to the unsecured debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings.The cost and availability of unsecured financing are materially affected by our short- and long-term credit ratings. Each of Standard & Poor’s Rating Services; Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.; Fitch, Inc.; and Dominion Bond Rating Service rates our debt. Our current ratings as assigned by each of the respective rating agencies are below investment grade, which negatively impacts our access to liquidity and increases our borrowing costs in the unsecured market. Ratings reflect the rating agencies’ opinions of our financial strength, operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet our obligations. Future downgrades of our credit ratings would increase borrowing costs and further constrain our access to the unsecured debt markets and, as a result, would negatively affect our business. In addition, downgrades of our credit ratings could increase the possibility of additional terms and conditions being added to any new or replacement financing arrangements as well as impact elements of certain existing secured borrowing arrangements.18Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KAgency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security and may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the issuing organization. Each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency’s rating.Significant indemnification payments or contract, lease, or loan repurchase activity of retail contracts or leases could harm our profitability and financial condition.We have repurchase obligations in our capacity as servicer in securitizations and whole-loan sales. If a servicer breaches a representation, warranty, or servicing covenant with respect to an automotive receivable, the servicer may be required by the servicing provisions to repurchase that asset from the purchaser or otherwise compensate one or more classes of investors for losses caused by the breach. If the frequency at which repurchases of assets or other payments occurs increases substantially from its present rate, the result could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations.Our earnings may decrease because of decreases or increases in interest rates.We are subject to risks from decreasing interest rates. A low interest rate environment or a flat or inverted yield curve may adversely affect certain of our businesses by compressing net interest margins or reducing the amounts we earn on our investment securities portfolio, thereby reducing our net interest income and other revenues.Rising interest rates could also have an adverse impact on our business as well. For example, rising interest rates:•will increase our cost of funds;•may reduce our consumer automotive financing volume by influencing customers to pay cash for, as opposed to financing, vehicle purchases or not to buy new vehicles;•may negatively impact our ability to remarket off-lease vehicles; and•will generally reduce the value of automotive financing loans and contracts and retained interests and fixed income securities held in our investment portfolio.Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with changes in interest rates and could affect our profitability and financial condition as could our failure to comply with hedge accounting principles and interpretations.We employ various economic hedging strategies to mitigate the interest rate and prepayment risk inherent in many of our assets and liabilities. Our hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets, liabilities, and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, we may experience volatility in our earnings that could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to find market participants that are willing to act as our hedging counterparties, which could have an adverse effect on the success of our hedging strategies.In addition, hedge accounting in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires the application of significant subjective judgments to a body of accounting concepts that is complex.A failure of or interruption in, as well as, security risks of the communications and information systems on which we rely to conduct our business could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely as a result of inadequate or failed processes or systems, human errors, employee misconduct, catastrophic events, external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, malware, misplaced or lost data, or other external events could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer applications being received, slower processing of applications, and reduced efficiency in servicing. In addition, our communication and information systems may present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft. The access by unauthorized persons to personal, confidential or proprietary information in our possession or our proprietary information, software, methodologies and business secrets could result in a significant legal and financial exposure, supervisory liability, damage to our reputation or a loss of confidence in the security of our systems, products, and services. For example, similar to other large financial institutions, in the past we have been subject to cyber attacks that briefly resulted in slow performance and unavailability of our website for some customers. Information security risks for large financial institutions like us have increased recently in part because of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies (including mobile devices) to conduct financial and other business transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, perpetrators of fraud, hackers, terrorists, and others. We may not be able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently and because attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. 19Table of ContentsAlly Financial Inc. • Form 10-KWe use estimates and assumptions in determining the fair value of certain of our assets. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, our cash flow, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected.We use estimates and various assumptions in determining the fair value of many of our assets, including certain held-for-sale loans for which we elected fair value accounting, retained interests from securitizations of loans and contracts, and other investments, which do not have an established market value or are not publicly traded. We also use estimates and assumptions in determining the residual values of leased vehicles. In addition, we use estimates and assumptions in determining our reserves for legal matters, insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses which represent the accumulation of estimates for both reported losses and those incurred, but not reported, including claims adjustment expenses relating to direct insurance and assumed reinsurance agreements. For further discussion related to estimates and assumptions, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates.” Our assumptions and estimates may be inaccurate for many reasons, including that they often involve matters that are inherently difficult to predict and that are beyond our control (for example, macro economic conditions and their impact on our dealers), and that they often involve complex interactions between a number of dependent and independent variables, factors, and other assumptions. As a result, our actual experience may differ materially from these estimates and assumptions. A material difference between our estimates and assumptions and our actual experience may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects.Fluctuations in valuation of investment securities or significant fluctuations in investment market prices could negatively affect revenues.Investment market prices in general are subject to fluctuation. Consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value and could negatively affect our revenues. Additionally, negative fluctuations in the value of available-for-sale investment securities could result in unrealized losses recorded in equity. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments, national and international events, and general market conditions.Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, and financial condition.Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by various parties, including accounting standard setters and those who interpret the standards, such as the FASB and the SEC, banking regulators, and our independent registered public accounting firm. Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, or financial condition.Recently, the FASB has proposed new financial accounting standards, and has many active projects underway, that could materially affect our reported revenues, profitability, or financial condition. These proposed standards or projects include the potential for significant changes in the accounting for financial instruments (including loans, deposits, allowance for loan losses, and debt) and the accounting for leases, among others. It is possible that any changes, if enacted, could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, or financial condition.The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty.Adverse economic conditions or changes in laws in states in which we have customer concentrations may negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.We are exposed to consumer loan portfolio concentration in certain states, including California, Texas, and Florida. Factors adversely affecting the economies and applicable laws in these and other states could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.