Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business Rating agencies have recently downgraded their ratings for GMAC and ResCap, and there could be further downgrades in the future. Future downgrades would further adversely affect our ability to raise capital in the debt markets at attractive rates and increase the interest that we pay on new borrowings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Each of Standard & Poor’s Rating Services; Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.; Fitch, Inc.; and Dominion Bond Rating Service rate our debt. There have been a series of recent negative credit rating actions, and all of these agencies currently maintain a negative outlook with respect to our ratings. Ratings reflect the rating agencies’ opinions of our financial strength, operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet our obligations. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security, and may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the issuing organization. Each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency’s rating. Future downgrades of our credit ratings would further increase borrowing costs and constrain our access to unsecured debt markets, including capital markets for retail debt and, as a result, would negatively affect our business. In addition, future downgrades of our credit ratings could increase the possibility of additional terms and conditions being added to any new or replacement financing arrangements, as well as impact elements of certain existing secured borrowing arrangements. 5 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K Our business requires substantial capital, and if we are unable to maintain adequate financing sources, our profitability and financial condition will suffer and jeopardize our ability to continue operations. Our liquidity and ongoing profitability are, in large part, dependent upon our timely access to capital and the costs associated with raising funds in different segments of the capital markets. Currently, our primary sources of financing include public and private securitizations and whole-loan sales. To a lesser extent, we also use institutional unsecured term debt, commercial paper, and retail debt offerings. Reliance on any one source can change going forward. We depend and will continue to depend on our ability to access diversified funding alternatives to meet future cash flow requirements and to continue to fund our operations. Negative credit events specific to us or our 49% owner, GM, or other events affecting the overall debt markets have adversely impacted our funding sources, and continued or additional negative events could further adversely impact our funding sources, especially over the long term. As an example, an insolvency event for GM would curtail our ability to utilize certain of our automotive wholesale loan securitization structures as a source of funding in the future. Furthermore, ResCap’s access to capital can be impacted by changes in the market value of its mortgage products and the willingness of market participants to provide liquidity for such products. ResCap’s liquidity may also be adversely affected by margin calls under certain of its secured credit facilities that are dependent in part on the lenders’ valuation of the collateral securing the financing. Each of these credit facilities allows the lender, to varying degrees, to revalue the collateral to values that the lender considers to reflect market values. If a lender determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call requiring ResCap to post additional collateral to cover the decrease. When ResCap is subject to such a margin call, it must provide the lender with additional collateral or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings with minimal notice. Any such margin call could harm ResCap’s liquidity, results of operation, financial condition, and business prospects. Additionally, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, ResCap may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause it to incur further losses and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Recent developments in the market for many types of mortgage products (including mortgage-backed securities) have resulted in reduced liquidity for these assets. Although this reduction in liquidity has been most acute with regard to nonprime assets, there has been an overall reduction in liquidity across the credit spectrum of mortgage products. As a result, ResCap’s liquidity will continue to be negatively impacted by margin calls and changes to advance rates on its secured facilities. One consequence of this funding reduction is that ResCap may decide to retain interests in securitized mortgage pools that, in other circumstances, it would sell to investors, and ResCap will have to secure additional financing for these retained interests. If ResCap is unable to secure sufficient financing for them or if there is further general deterioration of liquidity for mortgage products, it will adversely impact ResCap’s business. In addition, a number of ResCap’s financing facilities have relatively short terms, typically one year or less, and a number of facilities are scheduled to mature during 2008. Though ResCap has generally been able to renew maturing facilities when needed to fund its operations, in recent months counterparties have often negotiated more conservative terms. Such terms have included, among other things, shorter maturities upon renewal, lower overall borrowing limits, lower ratios of funding to collateral value for secured facilities, and higher borrowing costs. There can be no assurance that ResCap will be able to renew maturing credit facilities on favorable terms, or at all. If ResCap is unable to maintain adequate financing or if other sources of capital are not available, it could be forced to suspend, curtail, or reduce certain aspects of its operations, which could harm ResCap’s revenues, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects. Furthermore, we utilize asset and mortgage securitizations and sales as a critical component of our diversified funding strategy. Several factors could affect our ability to complete securitizations and sales, including conditions in the securities markets generally, conditions in the asset- or mortgage-backed securities markets, the credit quality and performance of our contracts and loans, our ability to service our contracts and loans, and a decline in the ratings given to securities previously issued in our securitizations. Any of these factors could negatively affect our ability to fund in these markets and the pricing of our securitizations and sales, resulting in lower proceeds from these activities. Recent developments in the residential mortgage market may continue to adversely affect our revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Recently, the residential mortgage markets in the United States and Europe have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that adversely affected our earnings and financial condition in the fourth quarter of 2006 and through 2007. Delinquencies and losses with respect to ResCap’s nonprime mortgage loans increased significantly and may continue to increase. Housing prices in many parts of the United States and the United Kingdom have also declined or stopped appreciating, after extended periods of significant appreciation. In addition, the liquidity provided to the mortgage sector has recently been significantly reduced. This liquidity reduction combined with ResCap’s decision to 6 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K reduce its exposure to the nonprime mortgage market caused its nonprime mortgage production to decline, and such declines may continue. Similar trends are emerging beyond the nonprime sector, especially at the lower end of the prime credit quality scale, and may have a similar effect on ResCap’s related liquidity needs and businesses in the United States and Europe. These trends have resulted in significant write-downs to ResCap’s mortgage loans held for sale portfolio and additions to allowance for loan losses for its mortgage loans held for investment and warehouse lending receivables portfolios. A continuation of these trends may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Another factor that may result in higher delinquency rates on mortgage loans held for sale and investment and on mortgage loans that underlie interests from securitizations is the scheduled increase in monthly payments on adjustable rate mortgage loans. Borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans are being exposed to increased monthly payments when the related mortgage interest rate adjusts upward under the terms of the mortgage loan from the initial fixed rate or a low introductory rate, as applicable, to the rate computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. This increase in borrowers’ monthly payments, together with any increase in prevailing market interest rates, may result in significantly increased monthly payments for borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans. Borrowers seeking to avoid these increased monthly payments by refinancing their mortgage loans may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably low interest rates. A decline in housing prices may also leave borrowers with insufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance. In addition, these mortgage loans may have prepayment premiums that inhibit refinancing. Furthermore, borrowers who intend to sell their homes on or before the expiration of the fixed-rate periods on their mortgage loans may find that they cannot sell their properties for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal balance of their loans. These events, alone or in combination, may contribute to higher delinquency rates. Certain government regulators have observed these issues involving nonprime mortgages and have indicated an intention to review the mortgage loan programs. To the extent that regulators restrict the volume, terms, and/or type of nonprime mortgage loans, the liquidity of our nonprime mortgage loan production and our profitability from nonprime mortgage loans could be negatively impacted. Such activity could also negatively impact our warehouse lending volumes and profitability. The events surrounding the nonprime segment have forced certain originators to exit the market. Such activities may limit the volume of nonprime mortgage loans available for us to acquire and/or our warehouse lending volumes, which could negatively impact our profitability. These events, alone or in combination, may contribute to higher delinquency rates, reduce origination volumes, or reduce warehouse lending volumes at ResCap. These events could adversely affect our revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Recent negative developments in the secondary mortgage markets have led credit rating agencies to make requirements for rating mortgage securities more stringent, and market participants are still evaluating the impact. The credit rating agencies that rate most classes of ResCap’s mortgage securitization transactions establish criteria for both security terms and the underlying mortgage loans. Recent deterioration in the residential mortgage market in the United States and internationally, especially in the nonprime sector, has led the rating agencies to increase their required credit enhancement for certain loan features and security structures. These changes, and any similar changes in the future, may reduce the volume of securitizable loans ResCap is able to produce in a competitive market. Similarly, increased credit enhancement to support ratings on new securities may reduce the profitability of ResCap’s mortgage securitization operations and, accordingly, its overall profitability and financial condition. Our indebtedness and other obligations are significant and could materially adversely affect our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $193 billion in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. Interest expense on our indebtedness constitutes approximately 70% of our total financing revenues. In addition, under the terms of our current indebtedness, we have the ability to create additional unsecured indebtedness. If our debt payments increase, whether due to the increased cost of existing indebtedness or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes. Our indebtedness also could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. The profitability and financial condition of our operations are dependent upon the operations of General Motors Corporation. A significant portion of our customers are those of GM, GM dealers, and GM-related employees. As a result, various aspects of GM’s business, including changes in the 7 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K production or sale of GM vehicles, the quality or resale value of GM vehicles, the use of GM marketing incentives, GM’s relationships with its key suppliers, the United Auto Workers and other labor unions, and other factors impacting GM or its employees could significantly affect our profitability and financial condition. We provide vehicle financing through purchases of retail automotive and lease contracts with retail customers of primarily GM dealers. We also finance the purchase of new and used vehicles by GM dealers through wholesale financing, extend other financing to GM dealers, provide fleet financing for GM dealers to buy vehicles they rent or lease to others, provide wholesale vehicle inventory insurance to GM dealers, provide automotive extended service contracts through GM dealers, and offer other services to GM dealers. In 2007, our shares of GM retail sales and sales to dealers were 35% and 82%, respectively, in markets where GM operates. As a result, GM’s level of automobile production and sales directly impacts our financing and leasing volume, the premium revenue for wholesale vehicle inventory insurance, the volume of automotive extended service contracts, and the profitability and financial condition of the GM dealers to whom we provide wholesale financing, term loans, and fleet financing. In addition, the quality of GM vehicles affects our obligations under automotive extended service contracts relating to such vehicles. Further, the resale value of GM vehicles, which may be impacted by various factors relating to GM’s business such as brand image or the number of new GM vehicles produced, affects the remarketing proceeds we receive upon the sale of repossessed vehicles and off-lease vehicles at lease termination. GM utilizes various rate, residual value, and other financing incentives from time to time. The nature, timing, and extent of GM’s use of incentives has a significant impact on our consumer automotive financing volume and our share of GM’s retail sales, which we refer to as our penetration level. For example, GM held a 72-hour promotion during July 2006 in which we offered retail contracts at 0% financing for 72 months. Primarily because of this promotion, we experienced a significant increase in our consumer automotive financing penetration levels during the third quarter of 2006. GM has provided financial assistance and incentives to its franchised dealers through guarantees, agreements to repurchase inventory, equity investments, and subsidies that assist dealers in making interest payments to financing sources. These financial assistance and incentive programs are provided at the option of GM, and they may be terminated in whole or in part at any time. While the financial assistance and incentives do not relieve the dealers from their obligations to us or their other financing sources, if GM were to reduce or terminate any of their financial assistance and incentive programs, the timing and amount of payments from GM-franchised dealers to us may be adversely affected. We have substantial credit exposure to General Motors Corporation. We have entered into various operating and financing arrangements with GM. As a result of these arrangements, we have substantial credit exposure to GM. However, as part of the Sale Transactions, this credit exposure has been reduced because of the termination of various intercompany credit facilities. In addition, certain unsecured exposure to GM entities in the United States has been contractually capped at $1.5 billion (actual exposure of $514 million at December 31, 2007). As a marketing incentive GM may sponsor residual support programs for retail leases as a way to lower customer’s monthly payments. Under residual support programs, the contractual residual value is adjusted above GMAC’s standard residual rates. At lease origination, GM pays us the present value of the estimated amount of residual support it expects to owe at lease termination. When the lease terminates, GM makes a “true-up” payment to us if the estimated residual support payment is too low. Similarly, we make a true-up payment to GM if the estimated residual payment is too high and GM overpaid GMAC. Additionally, under what we refer to as lease “pull-ahead” programs, customers are encouraged to terminate leases early in conjunction with the acquisition of a new GM vehicle. As part of these programs, we waive all or a portion of the customer’s remaining payment obligation under the current lease. Under most programs, GM compensates us for the foregone revenue from the waived payments. Since these programs generally accelerate our remarketing of the vehicle, the resale proceeds are typically higher than otherwise would have been realized had the vehicle been remarketed at lease contract maturity. The reimbursement from GM for the foregone payments is, therefore, reduced by the amount of this benefit. GM makes estimated payments to us at the end of each month in which customers have pulled their leases ahead. As with residual support payments, these estimates are trued-up once all the vehicles that could have been pulled ahead have terminated and been remarketed. To the extent that the original estimates were incorrect, GM or GMAC may be obligated to pay each other the difference, as appropriate under the lease pull-ahead programs. GM is also responsible for risk sharing on returned lease vehicles in the United States and Canada whose resale proceeds are below standard residual values (limited to a floor). In addition, GM may sponsor rate support programs, which offer rates to customers below the standard market rates at which we purchase retail contracts (such as 0% financing). Under rate support programs, GM is obligated to pay us the present value of the difference between the customer rate and our standard rates. The amount of this payment is determined on 8 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K a monthly basis based on subvented contract originations in a given month, and payment for GM’s rate support obligation is due to us on the 15th of each following month. Historically GM has made all payments related to these programs and arrangements on a timely basis. However, if GM is unable to pay, fails to pay, or is delayed in paying these amounts, our profitability, financial condition, and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our earnings may decrease because of increases or decreases in interest rates. Our profitability is directly affected by changes in interest rates. The following are some of the risks we face relating to an increase in interest rates: • Rising interest rates will increase our cost of funds. • Rising interest rates may reduce our consumer automotive financing volume by influencing consumers to pay cash for, as opposed to financing, vehicle purchases. • Rising interest rates generally reduce our residential mortgage loan production as borrowers become less likely to refinance, and the costs associated with acquiring a new home becomes more expensive. • Rising interest rates will generally reduce the value of mortgage and automotive financing loans and contracts and retained interests and fixed income securities held in our investment portfolio. We are also subject to risks from decreasing interest rates. For example, a significant decrease in interest rates could increase the rate at which mortgages are prepaid, which could require us to write down the value of our retained interests. Moreover, if prepayments are greater than expected, the cash we receive over the life of our mortgage loans held for investment, and our retained interests would be reduced. Higher-than-expected prepayments could also reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights and, to the extent the borrower does not refinance with us, the size of our servicing portfolio. Therefore, any such changes in interest rates could harm our revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with changes in interest rates and could affect our profitability and financial condition, as could our failure to comply with hedge accounting principles and interpretations. We employ various economic hedging strategies to mitigate the interest rate and prepayment risk inherent in many of our assets and liabilities. Our hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets, liabilities, and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, we may experience volatility in our earnings that could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. In addition, hedge accounting in accordance with SFAS 133 requires the application of significant subjective judgments to a body of accounting concepts that is complex and for which the interpretations have continued to evolve within the accounting profession and amongst the standard-setting bodies. On our 2006 Form 10-K, we restated prior period financial information to eliminate hedge accounting treatment that had been applied to certain callable debt hedged with derivatives. Our residential mortgage subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to us is restricted by contractual arrangements. On June 24, 2005, we entered into an operating agreement with GM and ResCap, the holding company for our residential mortgage business, to create separation between GM and us on the one hand, and ResCap, on the other. The operating agreement restricts ResCap’s ability to declare dividends or prepay subordinated indebtedness to us. This operating agreement was amended on November 27, 2006, and again on November 30, 2006, in conjunction with the Sale Transactions. Among other things, these amendments removed GM as a party to the agreement. The restrictions contained in the ResCap operating agreement include the requirements that ResCap’s total equity be at least $6.5 billion for dividends to be paid. If ResCap is permitted to pay dividends pursuant to the previous sentence, the cumulative amount of such dividends may not exceed 50% of ResCap’s cumulative net income (excluding payments for income taxes from our election for federal income tax purposes to be treated as a limited liability company), measured from July 1, 2005, at the time such dividend is paid. These restrictions will cease to be effective if ResCap’s total equity has been at least $12 billion as of the end of each of two consecutive fiscal quarters or if we cease to be the majority owner. In connection with the Sale Transactions, GM was released as a party to this operating agreement, but the operating agreement remains in effect between ResCap and us. At December 31, 2007, ResCap had consolidated total equity of approximately $6.0 billion. A failure of or interruption in the communications and information systems on which we rely to conduct our business could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer applications being received, 9 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K slower processing of applications, and reduced efficiency in servicing. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. We use estimates and assumptions in determining the fair value of certain of our assets, in determining our allowance for credit losses, in determining lease residual values, and in determining our reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, our cash flow, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects could be materially adversely affected. We use estimates and various assumptions in determining the fair value of many of our assets, including retained interests from securitizations of loans and contracts, mortgage servicing rights, and other investments, which do not have an established market value or are not publicly traded. We also use estimates and assumptions in determining our allowance for credit losses on our loan and contract portfolios, in determining the residual values of leased vehicles, and in determining our reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses. It is difficult to determine the accuracy of our estimates and assumptions, and our actual experience may differ materially from these estimates and assumptions. As an example, the continued decline of the domestic housing market, especially (but not exclusively) with regard to the nonprime sector, has resulted in increases of the allowance for loan losses at ResCap for 2006 and 2007. A material difference between our estimates and assumptions and our actual experience may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects. Our business outside the United States exposes us to additional risks that may cause our revenues and profitability to decline. We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the United States. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities for our businesses outside the United States, which could expose us to greater risks. The risks associated with our operations outside the United States include: • multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; • difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing foreign operations; • differing labor regulations; • consequences from changes in tax laws; and • political and economic instability, natural calamities, war, and terrorism. The effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our business could be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. We are exposed to risks related to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in currency exchange rates can have a significant impact on our earnings from international operations. While we carefully watch and attempt to manage our exposure to fluctuation in currency exchange rates, these types of changes can have material adverse effects on our business and results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to credit risk, which could affect our profitability and financial condition. We are subject to credit risk resulting from defaults in payment or performance by customers for our contracts and loans, as well as contracts and loans that are securitized and in which we retain a residual interest. For example, the continued decline in the domestic housing market has resulted in an increase in delinquency rates related to mortgage loans that ResCap either holds or retains an interest in. Furthermore, a weak economic environment caused by higher energy prices and the continued deterioration of the housing market could exert pressure on our consumer automotive finance customers resulting in higher delinquencies, repossessions, and losses. There can be no assurances that our monitoring of our credit risk as it impacts the value of these assets and our efforts to mitigate credit risk through our risk-based pricing, appropriate underwriting policies, and loss mitigation strategies are or will be sufficient to prevent a further adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. As part of the underwriting process, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and the misrepresentation is not detected before completing the transaction, the credit risk associated with the transaction may be increased. General business and economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas in which we operate affect our revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Our revenues, profitability, and financial condition are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and in the markets in which we operate outside the United States. A downturn in economic conditions resulting in increased unemployment rates, increased 10 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K consumer and commercial bankruptcy filings, or other factors that negatively impact household incomes could decrease demand for our financing and mortgage products and increase delinquency and loss. In addition, because our credit exposures are generally collateralized, the severity of losses is particularly sensitive to a decline in used vehicle and residential home prices. Some further examples of these risks include the following: • A significant and sustained increase in gasoline prices could decrease new and used vehicle purchases, thereby reducing the demand for automotive retail and wholesale financing. • A general decline in residential home prices in the United States could negatively affect the value of our mortgage loans held for investment and sale and our retained interests in securitized mortgage loans. Such a decrease could also restrict our ability to originate, sell or securitize mortgage loans, and impact the repayment of advances under our warehouse loans. • An increase in automotive labor rates or parts prices could negatively affect the value of our automotive extended service contracts. Our profitability and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by decreases in the residual value of off-lease vehicles. Our expectation of the residual value of a vehicle subject to an automotive lease contract is a critical element used to determine the amount of the lease payments under the contract at the time the customer enters into it. As a result, to the extent the actual residual value of the vehicle, as reflected in the sales proceeds received upon remarketing, is less than the expected residual value for the vehicle at lease inception, we incur additional depreciation expense and/or a loss on the lease transaction. General economic conditions, the supply of off-lease vehicles, and new vehicle market prices heavily influence used vehicle prices and thus the actual residual value of off-lease vehicles. GM’s brand image, consumer preference for GM products, and GM’s marketing programs that influence the new and used vehicle market for GM vehicles also influence lease residual values. In addition, our ability to efficiently process and effectively market off-lease vehicles impacts the disposal costs and proceeds realized from the vehicle sales. While GM provides support for lease residual values, including through residual support programs, this support by GM does not in all cases entitle us to full reimbursement for the difference between the remarketing sales proceeds for off-lease vehicles and the residual value specified in the lease contract. Differences between the actual residual values realized on leased vehicles and our expectations of such values at contract inception could have a negative impact on our profitability and financial condition. Fluctuations in valuation of investment securities or significant fluctuations in investment market prices could negatively affect revenues. Investment market prices in general are subject to fluctuation. Consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value that could negatively affect our revenues. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments, national and international events, and general market conditions. Changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs, or disruptions in the secondary markets in the United States or in other countries in which our mortgage subsidiaries operate, could adversely affect the profitability and financial condition of our mortgage business. The ability of ResCap to generate revenue through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors in the United States depends to a significant degree on programs administered by government-sponsored enterprises such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae, and others that facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market. These government-sponsored enterprises play a powerful role in the residential mortgage industry, and our mortgage subsidiaries have significant business relationships with them. Proposals are being considered in Congress and by various regulatory authorities that would affect the manner in which these government-sponsored enterprises conduct their business, including proposals to establish a new independent agency to regulate the government-sponsored enterprises, to require them to register their stock with the SEC, to reduce or limit certain business benefits they receive from the U.S. government, and to limit the size of the mortgage loan portfolios they may hold. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of these government-sponsored enterprises could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Also, any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary market, including declines in the institutional investors’ desire to invest in our mortgage products, could adversely affect our business. 11 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K We may be required to repurchase contracts and provide indemnification if we breach representations and warranties from our securitization and whole-loan transactions, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. When we sell retail contracts or leases through whole-loan sales or securitize retail contracts, leases, or wholesale loans to dealers, we are required to make customary representations and warranties about the contracts, leases, or loans to the purchaser or securitization trust. Our whole-loan sale agreements generally require us to repurchase retail contracts or provide indemnification if we breach a representation or warranty given to the purchaser. Likewise, we are required to repurchase retail contracts, leases, or loans and may be required to provide indemnification if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. Similarly, sales of mortgage loans through whole-loan sales or securitizations require us to make customary representations and warranties about the mortgage loans to the purchaser or securitization trust. Our whole-loan sale agreements generally require us to repurchase or substitute loans if we breach a representation or warranty given to the purchaser. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or if a payment default occurs on a mortgage loan shortly after its origination. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans may be broader than those available to us against the original seller of the mortgage loan. Also, originating brokers and correspondent lenders often lack sufficient capital to repurchase more than a limited number of such loans and numerous brokers and correspondents are no longer in business. If a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to enforce the remedies we have against the seller of the mortgage loan to us or the borrower. Like others in the mortgage industry, ResCap has experienced a material increase in repurchase requests. Significant repurchase activity could continue to harm our profitability and financial condition. Significant indemnification payments or contract, lease, or loan repurchase activity of retail contracts or leases or mortgage loans could harm our profitability and financial condition. We have repurchase obligations in our capacity as servicers in securitizations and whole-loan sales. If a servicer breaches a representation, warranty, or servicing covenant with respect to an automotive receivable or mortgage loan, the servicer may be required by the servicing provisions to repurchase that asset from the purchaser. If the frequency at which repurchases of assets occurs increases substantially from its present rate, the result could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. A loss of contractual servicing rights could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. We are the servicer for all of the receivables we have originated and transferred to other parties in securitizations and whole-loan sales of automotive receivables. Our mortgage subsidiaries service the mortgage loans we have securitized, and we service the majority of the mortgage loans we have sold in whole-loan sales. In each case, we are paid a fee for our services, which fees in the aggregate constitute a substantial revenue stream for us. In each case, we are subject to the risk of termination under the circumstances specified in the applicable servicing provisions. In most securitizations and whole-loan sales, the owner of the receivables or mortgage loans will be entitled to declare a servicer default and terminate the servicer upon the occurrence of specified events. These events typically include a bankruptcy of the servicer, a material failure by the servicer to perform its obligations, and a failure by the servicer to turn over funds on the required basis. The termination of these servicing rights, were it to occur, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations and those of our mortgage subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our consolidated mortgage servicing fee income was approximately $2.2 billion. The regulatory environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings. Our domestic operations are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions relating to supervision and regulation by state and federal authorities. Such regulation and supervision are primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers, not for the benefit of investors in our securities, and could limit our discretion in operating our business. Noncompliance with applicable statutes or regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of any license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties. Our operations are also heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the United States. For example, certain of our foreign subsidiaries operate either as a bank or a regulated finance company, and our insurance operations are subject to various requirements in the foreign markets in which we operate. The varying requirements of these jurisdictions may be inconsistent with U.S. rules and may materially adversely affect our business or limit necessary 12 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K regulatory approvals, or if approvals are obtained, we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. In addition, in many countries the regulations applicable to the financial services industry are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact regulatory requirements. Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market with regard to the affected product and on our reputation generally. No assurance can be given that applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted, or that we will not be prohibited by local laws from raising interest rates above certain desired levels, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, or financial condition. The worldwide financial services industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete successfully or if there is increased competition in the automotive financing, mortgage, and/or insurance markets or generally in the markets for securitizations or asset sales, our margins could be materially adversely affected. The markets for automotive and mortgage financing, insurance, and reinsurance are highly competitive. The market for automotive financing has grown more competitive as more consumers are financing their vehicle purchases, primarily in North America and Europe. Our mortgage business faces significant competition from commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage companies, and other financial institutions. Our insurance business faces significant competition from insurance carriers, reinsurers, third-party administrators, brokers, and other insurance-related companies. Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some of our competitors have lower cost structures, lower cost of capital, and are less reliant on securitization and sale activities. We face significant competition in various areas, including product offerings, rates, pricing and fees, and customer service. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate, our profitability and financial condition could be negatively affected. The markets for asset and mortgage securitizations and whole-loan sales are competitive, and other issuers and originators could increase the amount of their issuances and sales. In addition, lenders and other investors within those markets often establish limits on their credit exposure to particular issuers, originators and asset classes, or they may require higher returns to increase the amount of their exposure. Increased issuance by other participants in the market, or decisions by investors to limit their credit exposure to — or to require a higher yield for — us or to automotive or mortgage securitizations or whole loans, could negatively affect our ability and that of our subsidiaries to price our securitizations and whole-loan sales at attractive rates. The result would be lower proceeds from these activities and lower profits for our subsidiaries and us. Certain of our owners are subject to a regulatory agreement that may affect our control of GMAC Bank. On February 1, 2007, Cerberus FIM, LLC, Cerberus FIM Investors LLC and FIM Holdings LLC (collectively, “FIM Entities”), submitted a letter to the FDIC requesting that the FDIC waive certain of the requirements contained in a two-year disposition agreement between each of the FIM Entities and the FDIC. The agreement was entered into in connection with the sale by General Motors of a 51% interest in us. The sale resulted in a change of control of GMAC Bank, an industrial loan corporation, which required the approval of the FDIC. At the time of the sale, the FDIC had imposed a moratorium on the approval of any applications for deposit insurance or change of control notices. As a condition to granting the application in connection with the change of control of GMAC Bank during the moratorium, the FDIC required each of the FIM Entities to enter into a two-year disposition agreement. As previously disclosed by the FDIC, that agreement requires, among other things, that by no later than November 30, 2008, the FIM Entities complete one of the following actions: (1) become registered with the appropriate federal banking agency as a depository institution holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act or the Home Owners’ Loan Act, (2) divest control of GMAC Bank to one or more persons or entities other than prohibited transferees, (3) terminate GMAC Bank’s status as an FDIC-insured depository institution, or (4) obtain from the FDIC a waiver of the requirements set forth in this sentence on the ground that applicable law and FDIC policy permit similarly situated companies to acquire control of FDIC- 13 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K insured industrial banks; provided that no waiver request could be filed prior to January 31, 2008, unless, prior to that date, Congress enacted legislation permitting, or the FDIC by regulation or order authorizes, similarly situated companies to acquire control of FDIC-insured industrial banks after January 31, 2007. We cannot give any assurance that the FDIC will approve the FIM Entities’ waiver request or, if it is approved, that it will impose no conditions on our retention of GMAC Bank or on its operations. However, it is worth noting that the House of Representatives has passed a bill that would permit the FIM Entities to continue to own GMAC Bank. The Senate Banking Committee has approved a bill that would have the same effect. If the FDIC does not approve the waiver, we could be required to sell GMAC Bank or cause it to cease to be insured by the FDIC, or we could be subject to conditions on our retention of the bank or on its operations in return for the waiver. Requiring us to dispose of GMAC Bank or relinquish deposit insurance would, and the imposition of such conditions might, materially adversely affect our access to low cost liquidity and our business and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 