Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business We have recently experienced a series of credit rating actions, resulting in the downgrade of our credit ratings to historically low levels. Any further reduction of our credit ratings or failure to restore our credit ratings to 1 Table of Contents Contents General Motors Acceptance Corporation higher levels could have a material adverse effect on our business. Substantially all of our unsecured debt has been rated by four nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Concerns over the competitive and financial strength of our parent company, General Motors, including whether it will experience a labor interruption and how it will fund its health care liabilities, have resulted in us experiencing a series of credit rating actions on our unsecured debt concurrent with a series of credit actions that downgraded the credit rating on GM’s debt, which commenced late in 2001. As a result, our unsecured borrowing spreads have widened significantly over the past several years, substantially reducing our access to the unsecured debt markets and impacting our overall cost of borrowing. On May 5, 2005, Standard & Poor’s downgraded our senior debt to non-investment grade (to BB, from BBB-) while also downgrading our commercial paper rating to B-1, from A-3. On May 24, 2005, Fitch downgraded our senior debt to non-investment grade (to BB+, from BBB-) while also downgrading our commercial paper rating to B, from F3. Subsequently, on September 26, 2005, Fitch downgraded our senior unsecured debt rating to BB from BB+ and affirmed our commercial paper B rating. While maintaining an investment grade on our senior debt on August 2, 2005, DBRS downgraded our long-term debt to BBB (low) from BBB and our short-term rating was downgraded to R-2 (low) from R-2 (middle). On August 24, 2005, Moody’s downgraded our senior debt ratings to non-investment grade (to Ba1 from Baa2), while reducing our short term ratings to Not-Prime from Prime-2. On October 3, 2005, Standard & Poor’s placed our ratings on CreditWatch with negative implications. Subsequently, on October 10, 2005, Standard & Poor’s affirmed the CreditWatch for our ratings but changed the implications from negative to developing, which means that our ratings could be raised or lowered. Standard & Poor’s affirmed this status on October 17, 2005. On October 10, 2005, Moody’s placed our senior unsecured ratings under review for a possible downgrade. On October 17, 2005, Moody’s changed our review status to direction uncertain for our senior unsecured ratings and under review for a possible upgrade for our short-term rating. On January 26, 2006, Moody’s confirmed our rating. On March 16, 2006, Moody’s placed our senior unsecured ratings under review for a possible downgrade following GM’s announcement that it would delay filing its annual report on Form 10-K with the SEC. On October 11, 2005, DBRS placed our ratings under review with developing implications and on December 16, 2005, DBRS affirmed this status. On October 17, 2005, Fitch placed our ratings on Rating Watch Evolving. Further downgrades of our credit ratings would increase borrowing costs and further constrain our access to unsecured debt markets, including capital markets for retail debt, and, as a result, would negatively affect our business. In addition, further downgrades of our credit ratings could increase the possibility of additional terms and conditions being added to any new or replacement financing arrangements as well as impact elements of certain existing secured borrowing arrangements. Our business requires substantial capital, and if we are unable to maintain adequate financing sources, our profitability and financial condition will suffer and jeopardize our ability to continue operations. Our liquidity and ongoing profitability are in large part dependent upon our timely access to capital and the costs associated with raising funds in different segments of the capital markets. Our primary sources of financing include public and private securitizations and whole loan sales. To a lesser extent, we also use institutional unsecured term debt, commercial paper and retail debt offerings. Reliance on any one source can change going forward. We depend and will continue to depend on our ability to access diversified funding alternatives to meet future cash flow requirements and to continue to fund our operations. Negative credit events specific to us or our parent, General Motors, or other events affecting the overall debt markets have adversely impacted our funding sources, and continued or additional negative events could further adversely impact our funding sources, especially over the long term. As an example, an insolvency event for our parent would curtail our ability to utilize certain of our automotive wholesale loan securitization structures as a source of funding in the future. If we are unable to maintain adequate financing or if other sources of capital are not available, we could be forced to suspend, curtail or reduce certain aspects of our operations, which could harm our revenues, profitability, financial condition and business prospects. Furthermore, we utilize asset and mortgage securitizations and sales as a critical component of our diversified funding strategy. Several factors could affect our ability to complete securitizations and sales, including conditions in the securities markets generally, conditions in the asset-backed or mortgage-backed securities markets, the credit quality and performance of our contracts and loans, our ability to service our contracts and loans and a decline in the ratings given to securities previously issued in our securitizations. Any of these factors could negatively affect the pricing of our securitizations and sales, resulting in lower proceeds from these activities. Our indebtedness and other obligations are significant and could materially adversely affect our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, we had $254.4 billion in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. Interest and discount expense on our indebtedness constitute approximately 61% of our total revenues. In addition, under the terms of our current indebtedness, we have the ability to create additional unsecured indebtedness. If our debt payments increase, whether due to the increased cost of existing indebtedness or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may 2 Table of Contents Contents General Motors Acceptance Corporation be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes. Our indebtedness also could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. The profitability and financial condition of our operations are dependent upon the operations of our parent, General Motors. A significant portion of our customers are customers of GM, GM dealers and GM related employees. As a result, various aspects of GM’s business, including changes in the production or sales of GM vehicles, the quality or resale value of GM vehicles, the use of GM marketing incentives and other factors impacting GM or its employees could significantly affect our profitability and financial condition. We provide vehicle financing through purchases of retail automotive and lease contracts with retail customers of primarily General Motors dealers. We also finance the purchase of new and used vehicles by GM dealers through wholesale financing, extend other financing to GM dealers, provide fleet financing for GM dealers to buy vehicles that they rent or lease to others, provide wholesale vehicle inventory insurance to GM dealers, provide automotive extended service contracts through GM dealers and offer other services to GM dealers. In 2005, our share of GM retail sales and sales to dealers were 36% and 82%, respectively, in markets where GM operates. As a result, General Motors’ level of automobile production and sales directly impacts our financing and leasing volume, the premium revenue for wholesale vehicle inventory insurance, the volume of automotive extended service contracts and also directly impacts the profitability and financial condition of the GM dealers to whom we provide wholesale financing, term loans and fleet financing. In addition, the quality of GM vehicles affects our obligations under automotive extended service contracts relating to such vehicles. Further, the resale value of General Motors’ vehicles, which may be impacted by various factors relating to GM’s business such as brand image or the number of new GM vehicles produced, affects the remarketing proceeds we receive upon the sale of repossessed vehicles and off-lease vehicles at lease termination. General Motors utilizes various rate, residual value and other financing incentives from time to time. The nature, timing and extent of GM’s use of incentives has a significant impact on our consumer automotive financing volume and our share of GM’s retail sales, which we refer to as our penetration level. For example, GM’s introduction of an employee discount marketing program in June 2005 had the impact of reducing our consumer automotive financing penetration levels during its existence. Although GM has benefited from an increase in sales, our consumer automotive financing penetration levels have decreased as such programs do not provide consumers with additional incentives to finance with us. In addition, in limited circumstances, General Motors has provided financial assistance and incentives to its franchised dealers through guarantees, agreements to repurchase inventory, equity investments and subsidies that assist dealers in making interest payments to financing sources. These financial assistance and incentive programs are provided at the option of General Motors and they may be terminated in whole or in part at any time. While the financial assistance and incentives do not relieve the dealers from their obligations to us or their other financing sources, if General Motors were to reduce or terminate any of their financial assistance and incentive programs, the timing and amount of payments from GM franchised dealers to us may be adversely affected. Through our relationship with General Motors, we are able to market our residential mortgage and insurance products directly to GM’s current employees and retirees and their families, as well as to GM dealers and suppliers and their families. This group comprised 4.4% and 5.6% of our residential mortgage originations at December 31, 2005 and in 2004, respectively. Also, this group comprised 25% of the personal automobile insurance policyholders in our insurance operations during the same periods. Any factors affecting GM’s business that result in a reduction in the number of current GM employees, GM dealers or GM suppliers would affect our residential mortgage and insurance marketing opportunities and could reduce the volume of our mortgage originations and personal automobile insurance policies written. We have substantial credit exposure to General Motors. As a wholly owned subsidiary of General Motors, we have entered into various operating and financing arrangements with GM. As a result of these arrangements we have substantial credit exposure to GM. This exposure relates to various financing arrangements (including revolving lines of credit, term loans and lease arrangements on real property; refer to Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements) where we provide funding to GM. As a marketing incentive GM may sponsor residual support programs as a way to lower customer’s monthly payments. Under residual support programs the contractual residual value is adjusted above GMAC’s standard residual rates. To the extent that remarketing sales proceeds are less than the contractual residual value we have credit exposure to GM as they would be obligated to pay us under the residual support programs. Based on the December 31, 2005 outstanding U.S. operating lease portfolio, the amount that we would expect to be paid by GM under these lease residual support programs would be $2.5 billion. These projections would be paid over the remaining life of the lease portfolio (on average approximately 2 years) and are based on the expected remarketing performance of the vehicles. The maximum amount that could be paid under the residual support programs is approximately $4.4 billion and would only be paid in the unlikely event that the proceeds from all outstanding lease vehicles would be lower than both the contractual residual value and GMAC’s standard residual rates. Additionally, under certain pull ahead programs sponsored by GM, in which consumers are encouraged 3 Table of Contents Contents General Motors Acceptance Corporation to terminate leases early in conjunction with the purchase or lease of a new GM vehicle, GM compensates us for the foregone revenue from any lease payment obligations waived in connection with the program. Historically GM has made all payments related to such programs and arrangements on a timely basis. However, if GM is unable to pay, fails to pay or is delayed in paying these amounts, our profitability, financial condition and cash flow could be adversely affected. On October 8, 2005, Delphi, GM’s largest supplier, filed a petition for Chapter 11 proceedings under the United States Bankruptcy Code. In connection with the split-off of Delphi from GM in 1999, GM entered into contracts with certain unions to provide contingent benefit guarantees for limited pension and post retirement health care and life insurance benefits to certain former GM employees who transferred to Delphi in connection with the split-off. GM is contractually responsible for such payments to the extent Delphi fails to pay these benefits at required levels. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that GM will be able to recover the full amount of any benefit guarantee payments as required by an indemnification arrangement between GM and Delphi, and any payment by Delphi may be significantly limited. Also, Delphi has significant financial obligations to GM. As a result of Delphi’s restructuring, Delphi’s obligation may be substantially compromised, which could have an adverse impact on GM. The challenges faced by Delphi during its restructuring process could create operating and financial risks for GM. GM might be adversely affected by any disruption in the supply of automotive systems, components and parts which could potentially force the suspension of production at GM assembly facilities. Additionally, as a result of Delphi’s pursuit of a restructuring plan, there is the risk that negotiations could result in labor disruptions at Delphi. A material financial impact on GM resulting from obligations under the contingent benefit guarantees or because of labor disruptions at Delphi could adversely affect GM’s ability to pay amounts owed to us. As a wholly owned subsidiary of GM, we are jointly and severally responsible with GM and its other subsidiaries for funding obligations under GM’s and its subsidiaries’ qualified U.S. defined benefit pension plans. Our financial condition and our ability to repay unsecured debt could be impaired if we were required to pay significant funding obligations for the GM plans. Pursuant to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA, members of the GM control group — of which we are a member — are jointly and severally liable to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) for certain GM IRS-qualified U.S. defined benefit pension plan liabilities and to any trustee appointed if one or more of these pension plans were to be terminated by PBGC in a distress termination. The liabilities with respect to a terminated plan would be limited to the liabilities of the plan on a termination date, if and to the extent that any liabilities of the terminated plan would be (i) the liability for certain contributions if missed and (ii) the liabilities of the plan on a termination date, if and to the extent not covered by the assets of the plan. In 2003 and 2004, GM and its subsidiaries contributed a total of $18.7 billion to their IRS-qualified defined benefit pension plans in part to fund certain subsidiary ERISA minimum contribution requirements. In 2005, GM contributed $0.1 billion to its IRS-qualified U.S. defined benefit plans and is not expected to be required to make a material contribution to those plans in 2006. GM’s future funding obligations for its IRS-qualified U.S. defined benefit pension plans depend upon, among other things, changes in the level of benefits provided for by the plans, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine minimum ERISA funding levels, actuarial assumptions and experience, and any changes in government laws and regulations. If GM is legally required to make minimum contributions to those plans in the future, those contributions could be significant. In addition, if GM or PBGC were to terminate any of the plans there would likely be considerable excess liabilities not covered by the assets of the plans. As a member of the GM controlled group, GMAC is jointly and severally liable to pay any plan deficiencies and could have a lien placed on its assets by the PBGC to collateralize this liability, not exceeding 30% of the collective net worth of the GM controlled group. Our financial condition and ability to repay unsecured debt could be materially adversely affected to the extent we are required to pay some or all of these obligations. We are exposed to credit risk which could affect our profitability and financial condition. We are subject to credit risk resulting from defaults in payment or performance by customers for our contracts and loans as well as contracts and loans that are securitized and in which we retain a residual interest. There can be no assurances that our monitoring of our credit risk as it impacts the value of these assets and our efforts to mitigate credit risk through our risk-based pricing, appropriate underwriting policies and loss mitigation strategies are or will be sufficient to prevent an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. As part of the underwriting process, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to completing the transaction, the credit risk associated with the transaction may be increased. 4 Table of Contents Contents General Motors Acceptance Corporation Our earnings may decrease because of increases or decreases in interest rates. Our profitability is directly affected by changes in interest rates. The following are some of the risks we face relating to an increase in interest rates: • Rising interest rates will increase our cost of funds. • Rising interest rates may reduce our consumer automotive financing volume by influencing consumers to pay cash for, as opposed to financing, vehicle purchases. • Rising interest rates generally reduce our residential mortgage loan production as borrowers become less likely to refinance and the costs associated with acquiring a new home becomes more expensive. • Rising interest rates will generally reduce the value of mortgage and automotive financing loans and contracts and retained interests and fixed income securities held in our investment portfolio. We are also subject to risks from decreasing interest rates. For example, a significant decrease in interest rates could increase the rate at which mortgages are prepaid, which could require us to write down the value of our retained interests. Moreover, if prepayments are greater than expected, the cash we receive over the life of our mortgage loans held for investment and our retained interests would be reduced. Higher-than-expected prepayments could also reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights and, to the extent the borrower does not refinance with us, the size of our servicing portfolio. Therefore, any such changes in interest rates could harm our revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with changes in interest rates and could affect our profitability and financial condition. We employ various economic hedging strategies to mitigate the interest rate and prepayment risk inherent in many of our assets. Our hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets, liabilities and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, we may incur losses that could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Our residential mortgage subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends and to prepay subordinated debt obligations to us is restricted by contractual arrangements. On June 24, 2005, we entered into an operating agreement with GM and Residential Capital Corporation (ResCap), the holding company for our residential mortgage business, to create separation between GM and ourselves, on the one hand, and ResCap, on the other. The operating agreement restricts ResCap’s ability to declare dividends or prepay subordinated indebtedness to us. As a result of these arrangements, ResCap has obtained investment grade credit ratings for its unsecured indebtedness that are separate from our ratings and the ratings of GM. The restrictions contained in the ResCap operating agreement include the requirements that ResCap’s stockholder’s equity be at least $6.5 billion in order for dividends to be paid to us or our other affiliates, and that the cumulative amount of any such dividends may not exceed 50% of ResCap’s cumulative consolidated net income, measured from July 1, 2005, through the time such dividend is paid, minus the cumulative amount of certain prepayments of our subordinated debt by ResCap if such prepayments exceed 50% of ResCap’s cumulative consolidated net income at the time a dividend is paid. At December 31, 2005, ResCap had consolidated stockholder’s equity of approximately $7.5 billion. The ResCap operating agreement further restricts ResCap’s ability to prepay subordinated debt owed to us or any of our other affiliates. As of December 31, 2005, ResCap owed us $4.1 billion pursuant to a Subordinated Note Agreement, under which interest is payable quarterly and all outstanding principal is due at maturity on September 30, 2015. A failure of or interruption in the communications and information systems on which we rely to conduct our business could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business in each country and market in which we operate. Any failure or interruption of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in servicing. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. We use estimates and assumptions in determining the fair value of certain of our assets, in determining our allowance for credit losses, in determining lease residual values and in determining our reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, our cash flow, profitability, financial condition and business prospects could be materially adversely affected. We use estimates and various assumptions in determining the fair value of many of our assets, including retained interests and securitizations of loans and contracts, mortgage servicing rights and other investments which do not have an established market value or are not publicly traded. We also use estimates and assumptions in determining our allowance for credit losses on our 5 Table of Contents Contents General Motors Acceptance Corporation loan and contract portfolios, in determining the residual values of leased vehicles and in determining our reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to reported losses and losses incurred but not reported. It is difficult to determine the accuracy of our estimates and assumptions, and our actual experience may differ materially from these estimates and assumptions. A material difference between our estimates and assumptions and our actual experience may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability, financial condition and business prospects. Our business outside the United States exposes us to additional risks that may cause our revenues and profitability to decline. We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the United States. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities for our businesses outside the United States, which could expose us to greater risks. The risks associated with our operations outside the United States include: • multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; • difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing foreign operations; • differing labor regulations; • consequences from changes in tax laws; and • political and economic instability, natural calamities, war and terrorism. The effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our business could be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. We are exposed to risks related to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in currency exchange rates can have a significant impact on our earnings from international operations. While we carefully watch and attempt to manage our exposure to fluctuation in currency exchange rates, these types of changes can have material adverse effects on our business and results of operations and financial condition. General business and economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas in which we operate affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition. Our revenues, profitability and financial condition are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and in the markets in which we operate outside the United States. A downturn in economic conditions resulting in increased unemployment rates, increased consumer and commercial bankruptcy filings or other factors that negatively impact household incomes could decrease demand for our financing and mortgage products and increase delinquency and loss. In addition, because our credit exposures are generally collateralized, the severity of losses is particularly sensitive to a decline in used vehicle and residential home prices. Some further examples of these risks include the following: • A significant and sustained increase in gasoline prices could decrease new and used vehicle purchases, thereby reducing the demand for automotive retail financing and automotive wholesale financing. • A general decline in residential home prices in the United States could negatively affect the value of our mortgage loans held for investment and our retained interests in securitized mortgage loans. Such a decrease could also restrict our ability to originate, sell or securitize mortgage loans and impact the repayment of advances under our warehouse loans. • An increase in automotive labor rates or parts prices could negatively affect the value of our automotive extended service contracts. Our profitability and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by decreases in the residual value of off-lease vehicles. Our expectation of the residual value of a vehicle subject to an automotive lease contract is a critical element used to determine the amount of the lease payments under the contract at the time that it is entered into by the customer. As a result, to the extent that the actual residual value of the vehicle, as reflected in the sales proceeds received upon remarketing, is less than the expected residual value for the vehicle at lease inception, we incur a loss on the lease transaction. General economic conditions, the supply of off-lease vehicles and new vehicle market prices heavily influence used vehicle prices and thus the actual residual value of off-lease vehicles. GM’s brand image, consumer preference for GM products and GM’s marketing programs that influence the new and used vehicle market for GM vehicles also influence lease residual values. In addition, our ability to efficiently process and effectively market off-lease vehicles impacts the disposal costs and proceeds realized from the vehicle sales. While GM provides support for lease residual values including through residual support programs, this support by GM does not in all cases entitle us to full reimbursement for the difference between the remarketing sales proceeds for off-lease vehicles and the residual value specified in the lease contract. Differences between the actual residual values realized on leased vehicles and our expectations of such values at contract inception could have a negative impact on our profitability and financial condition. 6 Table of Contents Contents General Motors Acceptance Corporation Fluctuations in valuation of investment securities or significant fluctuations in investment market prices could negatively affect revenues. Investment market prices in general are subject to fluctuation. Consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value which could negatively affect our revenues. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments, national and international events and general market conditions. Changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs, or disruptions in the secondary markets in the United States or in other countries in which our mortgage subsidiaries operate, could adversely affect the profitability and financial condition of our mortgage business. The ability of our mortgage subsidiaries to generate revenue through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors in the United States depends to a significant degree on programs administered by government-sponsored enterprises such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and others that facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market. These government-sponsored enterprises play a powerful role in the residential mortgage industry and our mortgage subsidiaries have significant business relationships with them. Proposals are being considered in Congress and by various regulatory authorities that would affect the manner in which these government-sponsored enterprises conduct their business, including proposals to establish a new independent agency to regulate the government-sponsored enterprises, to require them to register their stock with the Securities and Exchange Commission, to reduce or limit certain business benefits that they receive from the U.S. government and to limit the size of the mortgage loan portfolios that they may hold. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of these government-sponsored enterprises could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Also, any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary market or the underwriting criteria of these government-sponsored enterprises could adversely affect our business. We may be required to repurchase contracts and provide indemnification if we breach representations and warranties from our securitization and whole loan transactions, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. When we sell retail contracts or leases through whole loan sales or securitize retail contracts, leases or wholesale loans to dealers, we are required to make customary representations and warranties about the contracts, leases or loans to the purchaser or securitization trust. Our whole loan sale agreements generally require us to repurchase retail contracts or provide indemnification if we breach a representation or warranty given to the purchaser. Likewise, we are required to repurchase retail contracts, leases or loans and may be required to provide indemnification if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. Similarly, sales by our mortgage subsidiaries of mortgage loans through whole loan sales or securitizations require us to make customary representations and warranties about the mortgage loans to the purchaser or securitization trust. Our whole loan sale agreements generally require us to repurchase or substitute loans if we breach a representation or warranty given to the purchaser. In addition, our mortgage subsidiaries may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or if a payment default occurs on a mortgage loan shortly after its origination. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans may be broader than those available to our mortgage subsidiaries against the original seller of the mortgage loan. If a mortgage loan purchaser enforces its remedies against our mortgage subsidiaries, we may not be able to enforce the remedies we have against the seller of the loan or the borrower. Significant indemnification payments or contract, lease or loan repurchase activity of retail contracts or leases or mortgage loans could harm our profitability and financial condition. We and our mortgage subsidiaries have repurchase obligations in our respective capacities as servicers in securitizations and whole loan sales. If a servicer breaches a representation, warranty or servicing covenant with respect to an automotive receivable or mortgage loan, then the servicer may be required by the servicing provisions to repurchase that asset from the purchaser. If the frequency at which repurchases of assets occurs increases substantially from its present rate, the result could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations or those of our mortgage subsidiaries. A loss of contractual servicing rights could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are the servicer for all of the receivables we have originated and transferred to other parties in securitizations and whole loan sales of automotive receivables. Our mortgage subsidiaries service the mortgage loans we have securitized, and we service the majority of the mortgage loans that we have sold in whole loan sales. In each case, we are paid a fee for our services, which fees in the aggregate constitute a substantial revenue stream for us. In each case, we are subject to the risk of termination under the circumstances specified in the applicable servicing provisions. 7 Table of Contents Contents General Motors Acceptance Corporation In most securitizations and whole loan sales, the owner of the receivables or mortgage loans will be entitled to declare a servicer default and terminate the servicer upon the occurrence of specified events. These events typically include a bankruptcy of the servicer, a material failure by the servicer to perform its obligations, and a failure by the servicer to turn over funds on the required basis. The termination of these servicing rights, were it to occur, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and those of our mortgage subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our consolidated mortgage servicing fee income was $1,608 million. The regulatory environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings. Our domestic operations may be subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions relating to supervision and regulation by state and federal authorities. Such regulation and supervision are primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers, and not for the benefit of investors in our securities, and could limit our discretion in operating our business. Noncompliance with applicable statutes or regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of any license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties. In addition, changes in the accounting rules or their interpretation could have an adverse effect on our business and earnings. Our operations are also heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the United States. For example, certain of our foreign subsidiaries operate either as a bank or a regulated finance company in their local market and our insurance operations are subject to various requirements in the foreign markets in which we operate. The varying requirements of these jurisdictions may be inconsistent with U.S. rules and may materially adversely affect our business or limit necessary regulatory approvals, or if approvals are obtained, we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. In addition, in many countries the regulations applicable to the financial services industry are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact regulatory requirements. Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market with regard to the affected product and on our reputation generally. No assurance can be given that applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted or that we will not be prohibited by local laws from raising interest rates above certain desired levels, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The worldwide financial services industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete successfully or if there is increased competition in the automotive financing, mortgage and/or insurance markets or generally in the markets for securitizations or asset sales, our margins could be materially adversely affected. The markets for automotive and mortgage financing, insurance and reinsurance are highly competitive. The market for automotive financing has grown more competitive as more consumers are financing their vehicle purchases, primarily in North America and Europe. Our mortgage business faces significant competition from commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage companies and other financial institutions. Our insurance business faces significant competition from insurance carriers, reinsurers, third-party administrators, brokers, and other insurance-related companies. Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some of our competitors have lower cost structures, lower cost of capital and are less reliant on securitization and sale activities. We face significant competition in various areas, including product offerings, rates, pricing and fees and customer service. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate, our profitability and financial condition could be negatively affected. The markets for asset and mortgage securitizations and whole loan sales are competitive, and other issuers and originators could increase the amount of their issuances and sales. In addition, lenders and other investors within those markets often establish limits on their credit exposure to particular issuers, originators and asset classes, or they may require higher returns to increase the amount of their exposure. Increased issuance by other participants in the market, or decisions by investors to limit their credit exposure to — or to require a higher yield for — us or to automotive or mortgage securitizations or whole loans, could negatively affect our ability and that of our subsidiaries to price our securitizations and whole loan sales at attractive rates. The result would be lower proceeds from these activities and lower profits for our subsidiaries and us. Risks Related to Our Controlling Stockholder GM is considering the sale of a controlling interest in us as well as exploring strategic and structural alternatives for ResCap. There is a risk that these initiatives may not occur, or if they do occur, they may not delink our credit rating from GM’s credit rating or maintain ResCap’s investment grade ratings. As previously announced, GM is exploring the possible sale of a controlling interest in us, as well as exploring other strategic and structural alternatives with respect to ResCap. The extent of the effect on GMAC’s and ResCap’s ratings, if any, will depend on the structure and other terms of any potential transaction as well as the extent of our ongoing credit exposure to GM. We are uncertain at this time if any transaction with respect to us or ResCap will occur or, if any transaction were to occur, on what terms. Furthermore, even if a third party acquires a controlling interest in us, or if a transaction is completed with respect to ResCap, there 8 Table of Contents Contents General Motors Acceptance Corporation is the possibility that these initiatives will not restore our credit rating or maintain ResCap’s credit rating at investment grade. Failure to execute a strategic transaction will place further pressure on both GM’s and our credit profiles, potentially resulting in further downgrades with our ratings likely re-linked to those of GM. Moreover, any reduction in the automotive finance capacity of GMAC could materially adversely affect GM’s business, to the extent that third party financing is not available to fund GM’s automotive sales. In the absence of a transaction: • Our access to capital may be seriously constrained, as most unsecured funding sources may decline, including bank funding; • The cost of funds related to borrowings that are secured by assets (known as ’secured funding’) may increase and this could lead to a reduction in liquidity for certain asset classes. • It may be increasingly difficult to securitize assets, resulting in reduced capacity to support overall automotive originations as well as reduced advances on future securitizations; • Uncompetitive funding costs may result in a lower return on capital and significantly lower earnings and dividends; and • We may need to consider divesting of certain businesses in order to maintain adequate liquidity to fund new originations or otherwise preserve the value of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 