Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business Rating agencies may downgrade their ratings for GMAC or ResCap in the future, which would adversely affect our ability to raise capital in the debt markets at attractive rates and increase the interest that we pay on our outstanding publicly traded notes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our unsecured debt has been rated by four nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Commencing late in 2001, concerns over the competitive and financial strength of GM, including whether it would experience a labor interruption and how it would fund its health care liabilities, resulted in a series of credit rating actions on our unsecured debt concurrent with a series of credit actions that downgraded the credit rating on GM’s debt. As a result, our unsecured borrowing spreads widened significantly over the past several years substantially reducing our access to the unsecured debt markets and impacting our overall cost of borrowing. Future downgrades of our credit ratings would increase borrowing costs and further constrain our access to unsecured debt markets, including capital markets for retail debt, and as a result, would negatively affect our business. In addition, future downgrades of our credit ratings could increase the possibility of additional terms and conditions being added to any new or replacement financing arrangements, as well as impact elements of certain existing secured borrowing arrangements. Our business requires substantial capital, and if we are unable to maintain adequate financing sources, our profitability and financial condition will suffer and jeopardize our ability to continue operations. Our liquidity and ongoing profitability are, in large part, dependent upon our timely access to capital and the costs associated with raising funds in different segments of the capital markets. Currently, our primary sources of financing include public and private securitizations and whole loan sales. To a lesser extent, we also use institutional unsecured term debt, commercial paper and retail debt offerings. Reliance on any one source can change going forward. We depend and will continue to depend on our ability to access diversified funding alternatives to meet future cash flow requirements and to continue to fund our operations. Negative credit events specific to us or our 49% owner, GM, or other events affecting the overall debt markets have adversely impacted our funding sources, and continued or additional negative events could further adversely impact our funding sources, especially over the long term. As an example, an insolvency event for GM would curtail our ability to utilize certain of our automotive wholesale loan 4 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K securitization structures as a source of funding in the future. Furthermore, ResCap’s access to capital can be impacted by changes in the market value of its mortgage products and the willingness of market participants to provide liquidity for such products. If we are unable to maintain adequate financing or if other sources of capital are not available, we could be forced to suspend, curtail or reduce certain aspects of our operations, which could harm our revenues, profitability, financial condition and business prospects. Furthermore, we utilize asset and mortgage securitizations and sales as a critical component of our diversified funding strategy. Several factors could affect our ability to complete securitizations and sales, including conditions in the securities markets generally, conditions in the asset-backed or mortgage-backed securities markets, the credit quality and performance of our contracts and loans, our ability to service our contracts and loans and a decline in the ratings given to securities previously issued in our securitizations. Any of these factors could negatively affect the pricing of our securitizations and sales, resulting in lower proceeds from these activities. Within this Form 10-K, we have restated prior period financial information to eliminate hedge accounting treatment that had been applied to certain callable debt hedged with derivatives. As a result, it is possible that some of our lenders under certain of our liquidity facilities could claim that they are not obligated to honor their lending commitments. We believe that any such claim would not be sustainable. Renewal and revision of these facilities is imminent, which likely will eliminate the issue. There can be no assurance that we are correct in our assessments. If we are not, available funding under certain of our liquidity facilities could be adversely impacted. Our indebtedness and other obligations are significant and could materially adversely affect our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $237 billion in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. Interest expense on our indebtedness constitutes approximately 67% of our total financing revenues. In addition, under the terms of our current indebtedness, we have the ability to create additional unsecured indebtedness. If our debt payments increase, whether due to the increased cost of existing indebtedness or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes. Our indebtedness also could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. The profitability and financial condition of our operations are dependent upon the operations of General Motors Corporation. A significant portion of our customers are those of GM, GM dealers and GM related employees. As a result, various aspects of GM’s business, including changes in the production or sale of GM vehicles, the quality or resale value of GM vehicles, the use of GM marketing incentives and other factors impacting GM or its employees could significantly affect our profitability and financial condition. We provide vehicle financing through purchases of retail automotive and lease contracts with retail customers of primarily GM dealers. We also finance the purchase of new and used vehicles by GM dealers through wholesale financing, extend other financing to GM dealers, provide fleet financing for GM dealers to buy vehicles they rent or lease to others, provide wholesale vehicle inventory insurance to GM dealers, provide automotive extended service contracts through GM dealers and offer other services to GM dealers. In 2006 our shares of GM retail sales and sales to dealers were 38% and 80%, respectively, in markets where GM operates. As a result, GM’s level of automobile production and sales directly impacts our financing and leasing volume, the premium revenue for wholesale vehicle inventory insurance, the volume of automotive extended service contracts and the profitability and financial condition of the GM dealers to whom we provide wholesale financing, term loans and fleet financing. In addition, the quality of GM vehicles affects our obligations under automotive extended service contracts relating to such vehicles. Further, the resale value of GM vehicles, which may be impacted by various factors relating to GM’s business such as brand image or the number of new GM vehicles produced, affects the remarketing proceeds we receive upon the sale of repossessed vehicles and off-lease vehicles at lease termination. GM utilizes various rate, residual value and other financing incentives from time to time. The nature, timing and extent of GM’s use of incentives has a significant impact on our consumer automotive financing volume and our share of GM’s retail sales, which we refer to as our penetration level. For example, GM held a 72 hour promotion during July 2006 in which we offered retail contracts at 0% financing for 72 months. Primarily as a result of this promotion, we experienced a significant increase in our consumer automotive financing penetration levels during this period. GM has provided financial assistance and incentives to its franchised dealers through guarantees, agreements to repurchase inventory, equity investments and subsidies that assist dealers in making interest payments to financing sources. These financial assistance and incentive programs are provided at the option of GM, and they may be terminated in whole or in part at any time. While the financial assistance and incentives do not relieve the dealers from their obligations to us or their other financing sources, if GM were to reduce or terminate any of their financial assistance and incentive programs, the timing and amount of payments from GM franchised dealers to us may be adversely affected. We have substantial credit exposure to General Motors Corporation. We have entered into various operating and financing arrangements with GM. As a result of these arrangements, we have substantial credit exposure to GM. However, as part of the Sale Transactions, this credit exposure has been reduced due to the termination of various inter-company credit facilities. In addition, certain unsecured exposure to GM entities in the U.S. has been contractually capped at $1.5 billion (actual exposure of $749 million at December 31, 2006). 5 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K As a marketing incentive GM may sponsor residual support programs as a way to lower customer’s monthly payments. Under residual support programs the contractual residual value is adjusted above GMAC’s standard residual rates. At lease origination, GM pays us the present value of the estimated amount of residual support it expects to owe at lease termination. When the lease terminates, GM makes a “true-up” payment to us if its estimated residual support payment was too low, and it still owes us money. Similarly, we make a “true-up” payment to GM if GM’s estimated residual payment was too high, and it overpaid GMAC. Additionally, under what we refer to as lease pull ahead programs, customers are encouraged to terminate leases early in conjunction with the acquisition of a new GM vehicle. As part of these programs, we waive the customer’s remaining payment obligation under the current lease, and under most programs, GM compensates us for the foregone revenue from the waived payments. Since these programs generally accelerate our remarketing of the vehicle, the re-sale proceeds are typically higher than otherwise would have been realized had the vehicle been remarketed at lease contract maturity. The reimbursement from GM for the foregone payments is, therefore, reduced by the amount of this benefit. GM makes estimated payments to us at the end of each month in which customers have pulled their leases ahead. As with residual support payments, these estimates are “trued up” once all the vehicles that could have been pulled ahead have terminated and been remarketed. To the extent that the original estimates were incorrect, GM or GMAC may be obligated to pay each other the difference, as appropriate under the lease pull-ahead programs. GM is also responsible for risk sharing on returned lease vehicles in the U.S. whose resale proceeds are below standard residual values (limited to a floor). Historically GM has made all payments related to such programs and arrangements on a timely basis. However, if GM is unable to pay, fails to pay or is delayed in paying these amounts, our profitability, financial condition and cash flow could be adversely affected. On October 8, 2005, Delphi Corporation, GM’s largest supplier, filed a petition for Chapter 11 proceedings under the United States Bankruptcy Code. In connection with the split-off of Delphi from GM in 1999, GM entered into contracts with certain unions to provide contingent benefit guarantees for limited pension and post retirement health care and life insurance benefits to certain former GM employees who transferred to Delphi in connection with the split-off. GM is contractually responsible for such payments to the extent Delphi fails to pay these benefits at required levels. Furthermore, there can be no assurance GM will be able to recover the full amount of any benefit guarantee payments as required by an indemnification arrangement between GM and Delphi, and any payment by Delphi may be significantly limited. Also, Delphi has significant financial obligations to GM. As a result of Delphi’s restructuring, Delphi’s obligation may be substantially compromised, which could have an adverse impact on GM. Our earnings may decrease because of increases or decreases in interest rates. Our profitability is directly affected by changes in interest rates. The following are some of the risks we face relating to an increase in interest rates: • Rising interest rates will increase our cost of funds. • Rising interest rates may reduce our consumer automotive financing volume by influencing consumers to pay cash for, as opposed to financing, vehicle purchases. • Rising interest rates generally reduce our residential mortgage loan production as borrowers become less likely to refinance and the costs associated with acquiring a new home becomes more expensive. • Rising interest rates will generally reduce the value of mortgage and automotive financing loans and contracts and retained interests and fixed income securities held in our investment portfolio. We are also subject to risks from decreasing interest rates. For example, a significant decrease in interest rates could increase the rate at which mortgages are prepaid, which could require us to write down the value of our retained interests. Moreover, if prepayments are greater than expected, the cash we receive over the life of our mortgage loans held for investment and our retained interests would be reduced. Higher-than-expected prepayments could also reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights and, to the extent the borrower does not refinance with us, the size of our servicing portfolio. Therefore, any such changes in interest rates could harm our revenues, profitability and financial condition. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with changes in interest rates and could affect our profitability and financial condition, as could our failure to comply with hedge accounting principles and interpretations. We employ various economic hedging strategies to mitigate the interest rate and prepayment risk inherent in many of our assets and liabilities. Our hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets, liabilities and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, we may experience volatility in our earnings that could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. In addition, hedge accounting in accordance with SFAS 133 requires the application of significant subjective judgments to a body of accounting concepts that is complex and for which the interpretations have continued to evolve within the accounting profession and amongst the standard-setting bodies. Within this Form 10-K, we have restated prior period financial information to eliminate hedge accounting treatment that had been applied to certain callable debt hedged with derivatives. As a result of this 6 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K matter, we have also communicated in this Form 10-K that we have a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting with regard to the documentation and effectiveness assessment of derivatives used in such callable debt hedge strategies. As further described in Item 1B on page 11, we are in receipt of two comments from the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance on our 2005 10-K and subsequent filings pertaining to specific aspects of our compliance with SFAS 133. We believe the ultimate resolution of these comments will not have a material affect on our consolidated financial statements presented herein. If, however, upon resolution of these comments the accounting treatment for these matters is determined to be different, it could have a significant impact to our financial condition and results of operations. Our residential mortgage subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to us is restricted by contractual arrangements. On June 24, 2005, we entered into an operating agreement with GM and ResCap, the holding company for our residential mortgage business, to create separation between GM and ourselves, on the one hand, and ResCap, on the other. The operating agreement restricts ResCap’s ability to declare dividends or prepay subordinated indebtedness to us. As a result of these arrangements, ResCap has obtained investment grade credit ratings for its unsecured indebtedness that are separate from our ratings. This operating agreement was amended on November 27, 2006, and again on November 30, 2006, in conjunction with the Sale Transactions. Among other things, these amendments removed GM as a party to the agreement. The restrictions contained in the ResCap operating agreement include the requirements that ResCap’s member’s equity be at least $6.5 billion for dividends to be paid. If ResCap is permitted to pay dividends pursuant to the previous sentence, the cumulative amount of such dividends may not exceed 50% of our cumulative net income (excluding payments for income taxes from our election for federal income tax purposes to be treated as a limited liability company), measured from July 1, 2005, at the time such dividend is paid. These restrictions will cease to be effective if ResCap’s member’s equity has been at least $12 billion as of the end of each of two consecutive fiscal quarters or if we cease to be the majority owner. In connection with the Sale Transactions, GM was released as a party to this operating agreement, but it remains in effect between ResCap and us. At December 31, 2006, ResCap had consolidated equity of approximately $7.7 billion. A failure of or interruption in the communications and information systems on which we rely to conduct our business could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in servicing. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. We use estimates and assumptions in determining the fair value of certain of our assets, in determining our allowance for credit losses, in determining lease residual values and in determining our reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, our cash flow, profitability, financial condition and business prospects could be materially adversely affected. We use estimates and various assumptions in determining the fair value of many of our assets, including retained interests and securitizations of loans and contracts, mortgage servicing rights and other investments, which do not have an established market value or are not publicly traded. We also use estimates and assumptions in determining our allowance for credit losses on our loan and contract portfolios, in determining the residual values of leased vehicles and in determining our reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses. It is difficult to determine the accuracy of our estimates and assumptions, and our actual experience may differ materially from these estimates and assumptions. As an example, the continued decline of the domestic housing market, especially with regard to the nonprime sector, has resulted in increases of the allowance for loan losses at ResCap for 2006. A material difference between our estimates and assumptions and our actual experience may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability, financial condition and business prospects. Our business outside the United States exposes us to additional risks that may cause our revenues and profitability to decline. We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the United States. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities for our businesses outside the United States, which could expose us to greater risks. The risks associated with our operations outside the United States include: • multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; • difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing foreign operations; • differing labor regulations; • consequences from changes in tax laws; and • political and economic instability, natural calamities, war and terrorism. The effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 7 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K Our business could be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. We are exposed to risks related to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in currency exchange rates can have a significant impact on our earnings from international operations. While we carefully watch and attempt to manage our exposure to fluctuation in currency exchange rates, these types of changes can have material adverse effects on our business and results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to credit risk which could affect our profitability and financial condition. We are subject to credit risk resulting from defaults in payment or performance by customers for our contracts and loans, as well as contracts and loans that are securitized and in which we retain a residual interest. For example, the continued decline in the domestic housing market has resulted in an increase in delinquency rates related to mortgage loans that ResCap either holds or retains an interest in. There can be no assurances that our monitoring of our credit risk as it impacts the value of these assets and our efforts to mitigate credit risk through our risk-based pricing, appropriate underwriting policies and loss mitigation strategies are or will be sufficient to prevent an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. As part of the underwriting process, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to completing the transaction, the credit risk associated with the transaction may be increased. Recent developments in the residential mortgage market, especially in the nonprime sector, may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition Recently, the residential mortgage market in the United States, and especially the nonprime sector, has experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that adversely affected our earnings and financial condition in the fourth quarter of 2006. Delinquencies and losses with respect to ResCap’s nonprime mortgage loans increased significantly and may continue to increase. Housing prices in many states have also declined or stopped appreciating, after extended periods of significant appreciation. In addition, the liquidity provided to the nonprime sector has recently been significantly reduced, which will likely cause ResCap’s nonprime mortgage production to decline. These trends have resulted in significant writedowns to ResCap’s mortgage loans held for sale portfolio and additions to allowance for loan losses for its mortgage loans held for investment and warehouse lending receivables portfolios. The lack of liquidity may also have the effect of reducing the margin available to ResCap in its sales and securitizations of nonprime mortgage loans. Another factor that may result in higher delinquency rates on mortgage loans is the scheduled increase in monthly payments on adjustable rate mortgage loans. This increase in borrowers’ monthly payments, together with any increase in prevailing market interest rates, may result in significantly increased monthly payments for borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans. Borrowers seeking to avoid these increased monthly payments by refinancing their mortgage loans may no longer be able to fund available replacement loans at comparably low interest rates. A decline in housing prices may also leave borrowers with insufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance their loans or sell their homes. In addition, these mortgage loans may have prepayment premiums that inhibit refinancing. Certain government regulators have observed these issues involving nonprime mortgages and have indicated an intention to review the mortgage loan programs. To the extent that regulators restrict the volume, terms and/or type of nonprime mortgage loan, the liquidity of our nonprime mortgage loan production and our profitability from nonprime mortgage loans could be negatively impacted. Such activity could also negatively impact our Warehouse Lending volumes and profitability. The events surrounding the nonprime segment have forced certain originators to exit the market. Such activities may limit the volume of nonprime mortgage loans available for us to acquire and/or our Warehouse Lending volumes, which could negatively impact our profitability. These events, alone or in combination, may contribute to higher delinquency rates, reduce origination volumes or reduce Warehouse Lending volumes at ResCap. These events could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition. General business and economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas in which we operate affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition. Our revenues, profitability and financial condition are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and in the markets in which we operate outside the United States. A downturn in economic conditions resulting in increased unemployment rates, increased consumer and commercial bankruptcy filings or other factors that negatively impact household incomes could decrease demand for our financing and mortgage products and increase delinquency and loss. In addition, because our credit exposures are generally collateralized, the severity of losses is particularly sensitive to a decline in used vehicle and residential home prices. Some further examples of these risks include the following: • A significant and sustained increase in gasoline prices could decrease new and used vehicle purchases, thereby reducing the demand for automotive retail financing and automotive wholesale financing. • A general decline in residential home prices in the United States could negatively affect the value of our mortgage loans held for investment and our retained interests in securitized mortgage loans. Such a decrease could also restrict our ability to originate, sell or securitize mortgage loans and impact the repayment of advances under our warehouse loans. 8 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K • An increase in automotive labor rates or parts prices could negatively affect the value of our automotive extended service contracts. Our profitability and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by decreases in the residual value of off-lease vehicles. Our expectation of the residual value of a vehicle subject to an automotive lease contract is a critical element used to determine the amount of the lease payments under the contract at the time the customer enters into it. As a result, to the extent the actual residual value of the vehicle, as reflected in the sales proceeds received upon remarketing, is less than the expected residual value for the vehicle at lease inception, we incur a loss on the lease transaction. General economic conditions, the supply of off-lease vehicles and new vehicle market prices heavily influence used vehicle prices and thus the actual residual value of off-lease vehicles. GM’s brand image, consumer preference for GM products and GM’s marketing programs that influence the new and used vehicle market for GM vehicles also influence lease residual values. In addition, our ability to efficiently process and effectively market off-lease vehicles impacts the disposal costs and proceeds realized from the vehicle sales. While GM provides support for lease residual values including through residual support programs, this support by GM does not in all cases entitle us to full reimbursement for the difference between the remarketing sales proceeds for off-lease vehicles and the residual value specified in the lease contract. Differences between the actual residual values realized on leased vehicles and our expectations of such values at contract inception could have a negative impact on our profitability and financial condition. Fluctuations in valuation of investment securities or significant fluctuations in investment market prices could negatively affect revenues. Investment market prices in general are subject to fluctuation. Consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value that could negatively affect our revenues. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments, national and international events and general market conditions. Changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs, or disruptions in the secondary markets in the United States or in other countries in which our mortgage subsidiaries operate, could adversely affect the profitability and financial condition of our mortgage business. The ability of ResCap to generate revenue through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors in the United States depends to a significant degree on programs administered by government-sponsored enterprises such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and others that facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market. These government-sponsored enterprises play a powerful role in the residential mortgage industry and our mortgage subsidiaries have significant business relationships with them. Proposals are being considered in Congress and by various regulatory authorities that would affect the manner in which these government-sponsored enterprises conduct their business, including proposals to establish a new independent agency to regulate the government-sponsored enterprises, to require them to register their stock with the SEC, to reduce or limit certain business benefits they receive from the U.S. government and to limit the size of the mortgage loan portfolios they may hold. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of these government-sponsored enterprises could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Also, any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary market, including declines in the institutional investors’ desire to invest in our mortgage products, could adversely affect our business. We may be required to repurchase contracts and provide indemnification if we breach representations and warranties from our securitization and whole loan transactions, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. When we sell retail contracts or leases through whole loan sales or securitize retail contracts, leases or wholesale loans to dealers, we are required to make customary representations and warranties about the contracts, leases or loans to the purchaser or securitization trust. Our whole loan sale agreements generally require us to repurchase retail contracts or provide indemnification if we breach a representation or warranty given to the purchaser. Likewise, we are required to repurchase retail contracts, leases or loans and may be required to provide indemnification if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. Similarly, sales by our mortgage subsidiaries of mortgage loans through whole loan sales or securitizations require us to make customary representations and warranties about the mortgage loans to the purchaser or securitization trust. Our whole loan sale agreements generally require us to repurchase or substitute loans if we breach a representation or warranty given to the purchaser. In addition, our mortgage subsidiaries may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or if a payment default occurs on a mortgage loan shortly after its origination. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans may be broader than those available to our mortgage subsidiaries against the original seller of the mortgage loan. If a mortgage loan purchaser enforces its remedies against our mortgage subsidiaries, we may not be able to enforce the remedies we have against the seller of the loan or the borrower. 9 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K Significant indemnification payments or contract, lease or loan repurchase activity of retail contracts or leases or mortgage loans could harm our profitability and financial condition. We and our mortgage subsidiaries have repurchase obligations in our respective capacities as servicers in securitizations and whole loan sales. If a servicer breaches a representation, warranty or servicing covenant with respect to an automotive receivable or mortgage loan, then the servicer may be required by the servicing provisions to repurchase that asset from the purchaser. If the frequency at which repurchases of assets occurs increases substantially from its present rate, the result could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations or those of our mortgage subsidiaries. A loss of contractual servicing rights could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are the servicer for all of the receivables we have originated and transferred to other parties in securitizations and whole loan sales of automotive receivables. Our mortgage subsidiaries service the mortgage loans we have securitized, and we service the majority of the mortgage loans we have sold in whole loan sales. In each case, we are paid a fee for our services, which fees in the aggregate constitute a substantial revenue stream for us. In each case, we are subject to the risk of termination under the circumstances specified in the applicable servicing provisions. In most securitizations and whole loan sales, the owner of the receivables or mortgage loans will be entitled to declare a servicer default and terminate the servicer upon the occurrence of specified events. These events typically include a bankruptcy of the servicer, a material failure by the servicer to perform its obligations, and a failure by the servicer to turn over funds on the required basis. The termination of these servicing rights, were it to occur, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and those of our mortgage subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our consolidated mortgage servicing fee income was approximately $1.6 billion. The regulatory environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings. Our domestic operations may be subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions relating to supervision and regulation by state and federal authorities. Such regulation and supervision are primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers, not for the benefit of investors in our securities, and could limit our discretion in operating our business. Noncompliance with applicable statutes or regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of any license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties. In addition, changes in the accounting rules or their interpretation could have an adverse effect on our business and earnings. Our operations are also heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the United States. For example, certain of our foreign subsidiaries operate either as a bank or a regulated finance company, and our insurance operations are subject to various requirements in the foreign markets in which we operate. The varying requirements of these jurisdictions may be inconsistent with U.S. rules and may materially adversely affect our business or limit necessary regulatory approvals, or if approvals are obtained, we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. In addition, in many countries the regulations applicable to the financial services industry are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact regulatory requirements. Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market with regard to the affected product and on our reputation generally. No assurance can be given that applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted or that we will not be prohibited by local laws from raising interest rates above certain desired levels, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The worldwide financial services industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete successfully or if there is increased competition in the automotive financing, mortgage and/or insurance markets or generally in the markets for securitizations or asset sales, our margins could be materially adversely affected. The markets for automotive and mortgage financing, insurance and reinsurance are highly competitive. The market for automotive financing has grown more competitive as more consumers are financing their vehicle purchases, primarily in North America and Europe. Our mortgage business faces significant competition from commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage companies and other financial institutions. Our insurance business faces significant competition from insurance carriers, reinsurers, third-party administrators, brokers and other insurance-related companies. Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some of our competitors have lower cost structures, lower cost of capital and are less reliant on securitization and sale activities. We face significant competition in various areas, including product offerings, rates, pricing and fees, and customer service. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate, our profitability and financial condition could be negatively affected. The markets for asset and mortgage securitizations and whole loan sales are competitive, and other issuers and originators could increase the amount of their issuances and sales. In addition, lenders and other investors within those markets often establish limits on their credit exposure to particular issuers, originators and asset classes, or they may require higher returns to increase the amount of their exposure. Increased issuance by other participants in the market, or decisions by investors to limit their credit exposure to — or to require 10 Table of Contents GMAC LLC • Form 10-K a higher yield for — us or to automotive or mortgage securitizations or whole loans, could negatively affect our ability and that of our subsidiaries to price our securitizations and whole loan sales at attractive rates. The result would be lower proceeds from these activities and lower profits for our subsidiaries and us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments On February 16, 2007, we filed a Form 8-K, with respect to Item 4.02(a) “Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review”, announcing our intention to make adjustments related to our accounting for certain hedging activities under SFAS 133. As a result of these adjustments, the GMAC Audit Committee determined that our previously issued consolidated financial statements for periods after the January 1, 2001 adoption of SFAS 133 should no longer be relied upon. Following this announcement, we received a letter from the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance on our 2005 10-K and subsequent filings. The letter, dated February 23, 2007, includes two comments pertaining to our hedging relationship testing methodologies and consideration of credit ratings in assessing hedge effectiveness for purposes of SFAS 133. We submitted our response to these comments to the SEC on March 12, 2007 and will continue to work to resolve these comments with the SEC staff. We believe the ultimate resolution of these comments will not have a material affect on our consolidated financial statements as presented herein. If, however, upon resolution of these comments the accounting treatment for these matters is determined to be different, it could have a significant impact to our financial condition and results of operations. 