Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements set forth at the beginning of Item 1 of this Report. In fiscal 2008, we experienced a significant change in the composition of our Board of Directors and senior management, including the departure of our former Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Controller. Failure of any new management and Board members to integrate themselves into, and effectively manage, our business, including any new strategies they may adopt, could result in material harm to the Company. On March 5, 2008, Terry L. Hall resigned as a Director and as our Chief Executive Officer and President and our Board appointed three new Directors. The Board appointed J. Scott Neish, our Vice President and President of Aerojet, to serve as our interim Chief Executive Officer and President, pending the results of a search to identify qualified candidates to fill this position on a permanent basis. On May 15, 2008, Timothy A. Wicks, Chairman of the Board, Todd R. Snyder and Sheila E. Widnall resigned as Directors of the Company. Our Board of Directors appointed James H. Perry and Thomas A. Corcoran as new Directors on May 16, 2008 and September 25, 2008, respectively. On September 29, 2008, Yasmin R. Seyal, our former Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and R. Leon Blackburn, our former Vice President, Controller left the Company and our Board appointed Kathleen E. Redd, Vice President, Finance of Aerojet, to serve as our Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary. The failure of our Directors or any new members of management to perform effectively or the loss of any of the Directors or former or current members of management could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our Board and management may institute strategies that differ from those we are applying currently. If any new strategies are adopted, it may take management a significant amount of time to fully implement such new strategies. If any new strategies are unsuccessful or if we are unable to execute them successfully, there could be a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have a substantial amount of debt. Our ability to operate and our financial flexibility is limited by the agreements governing our debt. We have a substantial amount of debt for which we are required to make interest and principal payments. As of November 30, 2008, we had $440.6 million of debt. Subject to the limits contained in some of the agreements governing our outstanding debt, we may incur additional debt in the future. Our level of debt places significant demands on our cash resources, which could: • make it more difficult to satisfy our outstanding debt obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash for payments on debt, reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, entitlement of our real estate assets, and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we compete; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources than we do; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and fund our operating costs, our liquidity may be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Economic conditions could materially adversely affect our ability to refinance our debt, and we face the risks of either not being able to do so, or doing so at higher interest expense. The holders of our 4% Contingent Convertible Subordinated Notes (4% Notes) may require us to repurchase for cash all or a portion of our outstanding $125.0 million 4% Notes on January 16, 2010 at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest and liquidated damages, if any. Additionally, the holders of our 21/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures (21/4% Debentures) may require us to repurchase for cash all or a portion of our outstanding $146.4 million 21/4% Debentures on November 20, 2011 at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, including liquidated damages, if any, payable in cash, to but not including the repurchase date, plus, in certain circumstances, a make-whole premium, payable in common stock. If we are required to repurchase our 4% Notes and 21/4% Debentures, we are planning to use cash on hand and accessing capital markets to secure debt and equity financing. The timing, terms, size, and pricing of any debt and equity financing will depend on investor interest and market conditions, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such financing. We inadvertently failed to register with the SEC the issuance of certain of our common shares under our defined contribution 401(k) employee benefit plan (the Plan). As a result, certain purchasers of securities pursuant to the Plan may have the right to rescind their purchases for an amount equal to the purchase price paid for the securities (or if such security has been disposed of, to receive damages with respect to any loss on such disposition) plus interest from the date of purchase. We expect to make a registered rescission offer to eligible Plan participants, which could result in the purchase of approximately 0.8 million shares of common stock (see Note 8 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We will need an amendment to our $280.0 million senior credit facility (Senior Credit Facility) in connection with the potential required repurchases of our 4% Notes and 21/4% Debentures and the rescission offer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the consent of lenders under our Senior Credit Facility or that, as a condition to consent, the lenders will not require that the terms of the Senior Credit Facility be amended in a manner that is unfavorable to us, including a possible increase in interest, fees, reduction in the amount of the funds available, and covenant changes. Furthermore, the current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. We likely will need to access credit markets to amend our Senior Credit Facility and repurchase our outstanding 4% Notes in January 2010 and 21/4% Debentures in November 2011. Our inability to amend our Senior Credit Facility or obtain financing to repurchase our 4% Notes and 21/4% Debentures on terms acceptable to us would have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants outlined in our debt indentures and agreements that could restrict our operating activities and the failure to comply could result in defaults that accelerate the payment of our debt. Our debt instruments generally contain various restrictive covenants which include, among others, provisions restricting our ability to: • access the full amount of our revolving credit facility and/or incur additional debt; • enter into certain leases; • make certain distributions, investments, and other restricted payments; • limit the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create certain liens; • purchase assets or businesses; • sell assets and if sold, 14 Table of Contents • retain excess cash flow from operations and asset sale proceeds; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Our secured debt also contains other customary covenants, including, among others, provisions: • relating to the maintenance of the property securing the debt; and • restricting our ability to pledge assets or create other liens. In addition, certain covenants in our bank facilities require us and our subsidiaries to maintain certain financial ratios. Any of the covenants described in this risk factor may restrict our operations and our ability to pursue potentially advantageous business opportunities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could also result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. In addition, our failure to pay principal when due is an immediate default, and in certain cases, causes cross defaults on most of our other debt. Our indebtedness under the Senior Credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, leaving us with limited collateral for additional financing. If our operating subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flow or if they are not able to pay dividends or otherwise distribute their cash to us, or if we have insufficient funds on hand, we may not be able to service our debt. All of the operations of our Aerospace and Defense and Real Estate segments are conducted through subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to service our debt obligations will be largely dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of our operating subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us, or upon loans, advances or other payments made by these subsidiaries to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will depend upon their operating results and cash flows and will be subject to applicable laws and any contractual restrictions contained in the agreements governing their debt, if any. Our pension plan is currently underfunded and we expect to be required to make cash contributions, which may reduce the cash available for our businesses. As of November 30, 2008, our defined benefit pension plan assets and projected benefit obligations were $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. The Pension Protection Act (PPA), enacted in August 2006, requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the funded status of the plan as of specified measurement dates. The funded status of the pension plan may be adversely affected by the investment experience of the plan’s assets, by any changes in the law in the United States, and by changes in the statutory interest rates used by “tax-qualified” pension plans in the U.S. to calculate funding requirements. Accordingly, if the performance of our plan’s assets does not meet our assumptions, if there are changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service regulations or other applicable law or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our future contributions to our underfunded pension plan could be higher than we expect. Significant cash contribution requirements to our pension plan may adversely affect our ability to meet certain covenants for our Senior Credit Facility, which absent an amendment or refinancing, would result in a default under our Senior Credit Facility and cross-defaults on our other debt instruments. The level of returns on retirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates, changes in legislation, and other factors could affect our financial results. Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense or income we record for our employee retirement benefit plans. We calculate the expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations are based on assumptions that we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions we use. The key assumptions used to estimate retirement benefit plan expense for the following year are: the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Our pension expense\income can also be affected by legislation and other government regulatory actions. For an additional discussion of our retirement benefits accounting policies refer to Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption “Critical Accounting Policies” and Note 1 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 15 Table of Contents Our operations and properties are currently the subject of significant environmental liabilities, and the numerous environmental and other government regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent in the future. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that, among other things, require us to obtain permits to operate and install pollution control equipment and regulate the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes. We may also be subject to fines and penalties relating to the operation of our existing and formerly owned businesses. We are subject to toxic tort and asbestos lawsuits as well as other third-party lawsuits, due to either our past or present use of hazardous substances or the alleged on-site or off-site contamination of the environment through past or present operations. We may incur material costs in defending these claims and lawsuits. Any adverse judgment or cash outlay could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. For additional discussion of legal and environmental matters, please see the discussion in Note 7 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Although some of our environmental costs may be recoverable and we have established reserves, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may not be sufficient which could adversely affect our financial results. As of November 30, 2008, the aggregate range of our environmental costs was $258.2 million to $463.6 million and the accrued amount was $258.2 million, of which $245.2 million relates to Aerojet sites and $13.0 million relates to non-Aerojet sites. We believe the accrued amount to be sufficient to cover our future remediation costs that could be incurred by us over the contractual term, if any, or next fifteen years of the estimated remediation. However, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. We evaluate the adequacy of those reserves on a quarterly basis, and they could change. In addition, the reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination at those sites. It is possible that additional sites needing remediation may be identified or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites may be discovered. It is also possible that the regulatory agencies may change clean-up standards for chemicals of concern such as ammonium perchlorate and trichloroethylene. This could lead to additional expenditures for environmental remediation in the future and given the uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. Under an agreement with the U.S. government, the Company’s environmental expenses related to our Aerojet Sacramento and former Azusa sites are allowable for reimbursement through our government contracts up to 88% of environmental expenses (Global Settlement). Environmental expenses at other Aerojet sites are eligible for reimbursement and treated under the normal rules of cost allowability. Aerojet’s mix of contracts can affect the actual reimbursement made by the U.S. government. Because these costs are recovered through forward pricing arrangements, our ability to continue recovering these costs from the U.S. government depends on Aerojet’s sustained business volume under U.S. government contracts and programs and the relative size of Aerojet’s commercial business. Additionally, in conjunction with the sale of the EIS business in 2001, Aerojet entered into an agreement with Northrop Grumman Corporation (Northrop) whereby Aerojet is reimbursed by Northrop for a portion of environmental expenditures eligible for recovery under the Global Settlement subject to annual and cumulative limitations. If we are unable to recover environmental expenses from the U.S. government that exceed the cumulative limitations from Nothrop, a significant increase in Aerojet estimated environmental expenses could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Our environmental expenses related to non-Aerojet sites are not recoverable and a significant increase in the estimated environmental expenses could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. For additional discussion of environmental matters including the recoverability of amounts from Northrop, please see the environmental discussion in Notes 7(c) and 7(d) in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 16 Table of Contents We are from time to time subject to significant litigation, the outcome of which could adversely affect our financial results. We and our subsidiaries are subject to material litigation. We may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits or claims. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can be very costly and can divert management’s efforts. Adverse outcomes in litigation, including toxic tort claims pending against Aerojet, product liability claims by former customers of our GDX Automotive (GDX) business, and the appeals of the unfair labor claims brought by former employees of the Company’s Snappon SA subsidiary in France could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or our cash flows. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Note 7(b) in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information on legal proceedings. The cancellation or material modification of one or more significant contracts could adversely affect our financial results. Sales, directly and indirectly, to the U.S. government and its agencies accounted for approximately 86% of our total net sales in fiscal 2008. Our contracts typically permit the U.S. government to unilaterally modify or terminate a contract or to discontinue funding for a particular program at any time. The cancellation of one or more significant contracts and/or programs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to realize anticipated sales and profits. The cancellation of a contract, if terminated for cause, could also subject us to liability for the excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. If terminated for convenience, our recovery of costs would be limited to amounts already incurred or committed, and our profit would be limited to work completed prior to termination. Future reductions or changes in U.S. government spending could adversely affect our financial results. Our primary aerospace and defense customers include the DoD and its agencies, the government prime contractors that supply products to these customers, and NASA. As a result, we rely on particular levels of U.S. government spending on propulsion systems for defense and space applications and armament systems for precision tactical weapon systems and munitions applications, and our backlog depends, in a large part, on continued funding by the U.S. government for the programs in which we are involved. These spending levels are not generally correlated with any specific economic cycle, but rather follow the cycle of general political support for this type of spending. Moreover, although our contracts often contemplate that our services will be performed over a period of several years, Congress usually must approve funds for a given program each government fiscal year and may significantly reduce or eliminate funding for a program. A decrease in U.S. DoD and/or NASA expenditures, or the elimination or curtailment of a material program in which we are involved, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. A significant percentage of our sales are generated from fixed-price contracts. If we experience cost overruns on these contracts, we would have to absorb the excess costs which could adversely affect our financial results. In fiscal 2008, approximately 46% of our net sales were from fixed-price contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform specified work for a fixed price and realize all of the profit or loss resulting from variations in the costs of performing the contract. As a result, all fixed-price contracts involve the inherent risk of unreimbursed cost overruns. To the extent we were to incur unanticipated cost overruns on a program or platform subject to a fixed-price contract, our profitability would be adversely affected. Future profitability is subject to risks including the ability of suppliers to deliver components of acceptable quality on schedule and the successful implementation of automated tooling in production processes. Our success and growth in our Aerospace and Defense segment depends on our ability to secure contracts. We encounter intense competition in bidding for contracts. Many of our competitors have financial, technical, production, and other resources substantially greater than ours. Although the downsizing of the defense industry in the early 1990s has resulted in a reduction in the aggregate number of competitors, the consolidation has also 17 Table of Contents strengthened the capabilities of some of the remaining competitors resulting in an increasingly competitive environment. The U.S. government also has its own manufacturing capabilities in some areas. We may be unable to compete successfully with our competitors and our inability to do so could result in a decrease in sales, profits, and cash flows that we historically have generated from certain contracts. Further, the U.S. government may open to competition programs on which we are currently the sole supplier, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Our Aerospace and Defense segment is subject to procurement and other related laws and regulations inherent in contracting with the U.S. government, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our financial results. In the performance of contracts with the U.S. government, we are subject to complex and extensive procurement and other related laws and regulations. Possible consequences of a failure to comply, even inadvertently, with these laws and regulations include civil and criminal fines and penalties, in some cases, double or triple damages, and suspension or debarment from future government contracts and exporting of goods for a specified period of time. These laws and regulations provide for ongoing audits and reviews of incurred costs as well as contract procurement, performance and administration. The U.S. government may, if it deems appropriate, conduct an investigation into possible illegal or unethical activity in connection with these contracts. Investigations of this nature are common in the aerospace and defense industry, and lawsuits may result. In addition, the U.S. government and its principal prime contractors periodically investigate the financial viability of its contractors and subcontractors as part of its risk assessment process associated with the award of new contracts. If the U.S. government or one or more prime contractors were to determine that we were not financially viable, our ability to continue to act as a government contractor or subcontractor would be impaired. Our inability to adapt to rapid technological changes could impair our ability to remain competitive. The aerospace and defense industry continues to undergo rapid and significant technological development. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we are able to, allowing them to provide more effective products at more competitive prices. Future technological developments could: • adversely impact our competitive position if we are unable to react to these developments in a timely or efficient manner; • require us to write-down obsolete facilities, equipment, and technology; • require us to discontinue production of obsolete products before we can recover any or all of our related research, development and commercialization expenses; or • require significant capital expenditures for research, development, and launch of new products or processes. We may experience warranty claims for product failures, schedule delays or other problems with existing or new products and systems. Many of the products we develop and manufacture are technologically advanced systems that must function under demanding operating conditions. Even though we believe that we employ sophisticated and rigorous design, manufacturing and testing processes and practices, we may not be able to successfully launch or manufacture our products on schedule or our products may not perform as intended. If our products fail to perform adequately, some of our contracts require us to forfeit a portion of our expected profit, receive reduced payments, provide a replacement product or service or reduce the price of subsequent sales to the same customer. Performance penalties may also be imposed if we fail to meet delivery schedules or other measures of contract performance. We do not generally insure against potential costs resulting from any required remedial actions or costs or loss of sales due to postponement or cancellation of scheduled operations or product deliveries. 18 Table of Contents The release or explosion of dangerous materials used in our business could disrupt our operations and could adversely affect our financial results. Our business operations involve the handling and production of potentially explosive materials and other dangerous chemicals, including materials used in rocket propulsion and explosive devices. Despite our use of specialized facilities to handle dangerous materials and intensive employee training programs, the handling and production of hazardous materials could result in incidents that temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt our manufacturing operations and could cause production delays. It is possible that a release of these chemicals or an explosion could result in death or significant injuries to employees and others. Material property damage to us and third parties could also occur. The use of these products in applications by our customers could also result in liability if an explosion or fire were to occur. Any release or explosion could expose us to adverse publicity or liability for damages or cause production delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Future reductions in airbag propellant volume could adversely affect our financial results. One of our plants produces large volumes of propellants used in automobile airbags sold to a single customer. These products are subject to trends in vehicle sales and cost competition from other domestic and foreign suppliers. The loss of significant volume could affect fixed cost absorption for the plant, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or our cash flows. Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials and difficulties in the supplier qualification process, as well as increases in prices of raw materials, could adversely affect our financial results. We closely monitor sources of supply to assure that adequate raw materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes are available. As a U.S. government contractor, we are frequently limited to procuring materials and components from sources of supply that meet rigorous customer and/or government specifications. In addition, as business conditions, DoD budgets, and Congressional allocations change, suppliers of specialty chemicals and other materials sometime consider dropping low-volume items from their product lines, which may require us to qualify new suppliers for raw materials on key programs. Current suppliers of some raw materials used in the manufacturing of rocket nozzles, composite cases and explosives have announced plans to relocate, close, and/or discontinue certain product lines. These materials, which include TPB/Flexzone, Iron Oxide lacquer and other constituents, are used industry-wide and are key to many of our motor and warhead programs. We continue our efforts at qualifying new suppliers and products for these materials and we expect that materials will be available in time to meet our future production needs. In some situations, increased costs related to new suppliers may not be recoverable under our contracts. In addition, some of these materials may have to be procured from offshore suppliers. The supply of ammonium perchlorate, a principal raw material used in solid propellant, is limited to a single source that supplies the entire domestic solid propellant industry with actual pricing based on the total industry demand. Significant reductions in the total national demand will likely result in significant unit price increases. Where possible Aerojet has protective price re-determinable language incorporated into all contracts with our customers. The industry also currently relies on one primary supplier for carbon fiber, which is used in the production of composite materials. This supplier has multiple manufacturing lines for such material. Although other sources of carbon fiber exist, the addition of a new supplier would require us to qualify the new source for use. The Japanese government has imposed export restrictions on materials that are to be used in offensive weapons systems. To date, this has not impacted our production but has increased the lead times associated with the product as its export has to be approved by the Japanese Defense Ministry. Characterization of domestic sources of carbon fiber is underway by the extended aerospace industry. We are also impacted, as is the rest of the industry, by increases in the prices and lead-times of raw materials used in production on various fixed-price contracts. We continue to experience increases in the price and lead-times of certain commodity metals, primarily steel and aluminum. Titanium mill products continue to be monitored and we have seen some softening in the schedules and pricing, however, both remain well above historical levels. We 19 Table of Contents monitor the price and supply of these materials and work closely with suppliers to schedule purchases far enough in advance and in the most economical means possible to reduce program impact. Additionally, whenever possible, we have negotiated with our customers economic and/or price adjustment clauses tied to commodity indices. Our past success in negotiating these terms is no indication of our ability to continue to do so. The U.S. Department of Defense has begun to rigorously enforce the provisions of the “Berry Amendment” (DFARS 225-7002, 252.225-7014) which imposes a requirement to procure certain strategic materials critical to national security only from U.S. sources. Due to the limited U.S. supply of these metals and the requirement to use domestic sources, lead times and cost impacts have been significant to our defense programs. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw materials, difficulty qualifying new sources of supply, implementing use of replacement materials or new sources of supply, and/or a continuing increase in the prices of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. The real estate market is inherently risky. Our real estate activities may subject us to various risks including the following: • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary re-zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects; • we may be unable to complete environmental remediation or to have lifted state and federal environmental restrictions on our property, which could cause a delay or abandonment of these projects; • we may be unable to obtain sufficient water sources to service our projects, which may prevent us from executing our plans; • our real estate activities require significant capital expenditures and we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our plans; • economic and political uncertainties could have an adverse effect on consumer buying habits, construction costs, availability of labor and materials and other factors affecting us and the real estate industry in general; • our property is subject to federal, state, and local regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations on our plans; • much of our property is raw land which includes the natural habitats of various endangered or protected wildlife species requiring mitigation; • if our land use plans are approved by the appropriate governmental authorities, we may face potential lawsuits from those who oppose such plans. Such lawsuits and the costs associated with such opposition could be material and have an adverse effect on our ability to sell property or realize income from our projects; and • the time frame required for approval of our plans means that we may have to wait years for a significant cash return. Substantially all of our real estate is located in Sacramento County, California making us vulnerable to changes in economic and other conditions in that particular market. As a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, our long-term performance and the value of our properties will depend upon conditions in the Sacramento region, including: • the sustainability and growth of industries located in the Sacramento region; • the financial strength and spending of the State of California; • local real estate market conditions; • changes in neighborhood characteristics; 20 Table of Contents • changes in interest rates; and • real estate tax rates. If unfavorable economic or other conditions occur in the region, our plans and business strategy could be adversely affected. We have limited experience in real estate activities. While we have owned our Sacramento real estate for over 50 years, we have limited real estate experience. Therefore, we do not have substantial history from which you can draw conclusions about our ability to execute our real estate plans. We may expand our operations through acquisitions, which may divert management’s attention and expose us to unanticipated liabilities and costs. We may experience difficulties integrating any acquired operations, and we may incur costs relating to acquisitions that are never consummated. Our business strategy may include continued expansion of our Aerospace and Defense segment through acquisitions that make both strategic and economic sense. However, our ability to consummate any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources, and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, integrate general and administrative services, and key information processing systems and, where necessary, re-qualify our customer programs. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs, and contingent liabilities. We may also incur costs and divert management attention to acquisitions that are never consummated. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated. Although we undertake a due diligence investigation of each business that we have or may acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to, or are unable to, discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through indemnities and warranties from the seller. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. We may incur additional costs related to divestitures, which could adversely affect our financial results. In connection with our divestitures of the Fine Chemicals and GDX businesses in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively, we have incurred and may incur additional costs, including costs related to the closure of a manufacturing facility in Chartres, France. As part of these and other divestitures, we have provided customary indemnification to the purchasers for such matters as claims arising from the operation of the businesses prior to disposition, including warranty and income tax matters, and liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination existing prior to disposition. These additional costs and the indemnification of the purchasers of our former businesses may require additional cash expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. A strike or other work stoppage, or our inability to renew collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, could adversely affect our financial results. As of November 30, 2008, 14% of our 3,057 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements which are due to expire in the summer of 2009 through 2012. However, due to recent changes in our retirement benefits provided to non-union employees as discussed in Note 6 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we are in current discussions with employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. We will be negotiating one labor agreement in fiscal 2009 and if we are not able to negotiate an acceptable new agreement with the union, upon expiration of the existing contract, we could experience a strike or work stoppage. Even if we are successful in negotiating a new agreement, the new agreement could call for higher wages or benefits 21 Table of Contents paid to union members, which would increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our profitability. If our unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or other non-unionized operations were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of operations at our facilities or higher ongoing labor costs. A strike or other work stoppage in the facilities of any of our major customers could also have similar effects on us. In order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees. Our business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. Due to the nature of our business, our sales levels may fluctuate causing our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly and annual sales are affected by a variety of factors that may lead to significant variability in our operating results: • in our Aerospace and Defense segment, sales earned under long-term contracts are recognized either on a cost basis, when deliveries are made, or when contractually defined performance milestones are achieved. The timing of deliveries or milestones may fluctuate from quarter to quarter; and • in our Real Estate segment, sales of property may be made from time to time, which may result in variability in our operating results. We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. A significant portion of our business relates to developing and manufacturing propulsion systems for defense and space applications, armament systems for precision tactical weapon systems and munitions applications. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services. In some, but not all, circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the U.S. government. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. We use estimates in accounting for most of our programs. Changes in our estimates could affect our future financial results. Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract sales and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total sales and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impacts of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Estimates of award and incentive fees are also used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may adversely affect our future period operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. For an additional discussion of our revenue recognition policy refer to Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and 22 Table of Contents Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption “Critical Accounting Policies” and Note 1 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. New accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect our financial results. Changes to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America arise from new and revised standards, interpretations and other guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and others. In addition, the U.S. government may issue new or revised Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) or Cost Principles. The effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. Such changes could result in unanticipated effects on our operating results, financial condition, and/or our cash flows. In addition, should legislation and CAS alignment related to PPA not occur, some of our cash contributions required under PPA to our defined benefit pension plan may not be immediately recoverable which could result in material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. Further, our current Forward Pricing Rates (FPR) did not yet reflect the full effect of the PPA requirements at November 30, 2008. PPA funding requirements are expected to be incorporated into our FPRs in the first half of fiscal 2009, which will minimize any adverse effects on contract’s price negotiations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could negatively impact the market price of our stock price. If, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 