Item 1A. Risk Factors Future reductions or changes in U.S. government spending could adversely affect our financial results. Our primary aerospace and defense customers include the DoD and its agencies, NASA, and the prime contractors that supply products to these customers. We are seeing more opportunities for commercial in-launch and in-space business. In addition, sales to our aerospace and defense customers that provide products to international customers continue to grow. However, we rely on particular levels of U.S. government spending on propulsion systems for defense, space and armament systems for precision tactical weapon systems and munitions applications, and our backlog depends, in a large part, on continued funding by the U.S. government for the programs in which we are involved. These spending levels are not generally correlated with any specific economic cycle, but rather follow the cycle of general public policy and political support for this type of spending. Moreover, although our contracts often contemplate that our services will be performed over a period of several years, the U.S. President must propose and Congress must appropriate funds for a given program each GFY and may significantly change, increase, reduce or eliminate, funding for a program. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 set overall discretionary spending levels for GFY 2014 and eased sequestration cuts to the DoD and other federal agencies (e.g., NASA) for GFY 2014 and 2015, paving the way for an eventual agreement on GFY 2014 Appropriations for all federal agencies. In relatively short order, Congress was able to pass the Consolidated (so-called “Omnibus”) Appropriation bill for GFY 2014. The Defense portion of the bill was below the President’s requested level of funding for GFY 2014 but roughly the same as the post-sequester GFY 2013 DoD Appropriation levels. Funding for NASA was also below the President’s Budget Request for GFY 2014 but up from the post-sequester GFY 2013 NASA Appropriation level. Despite overall U.S. government budget spending pressures, we believe we are well-positioned to benefit from spending in DoD and NASA priority areas. This view reflects the DoD’s strategic guidance report released in January 2012 which affirms support for many of our core programs and points toward continued DoD investment in: access to space — in order to ensure access to this highly congested and contested “global commons”; missile defense — in order to protect the homeland, counter weapons of mass destruction and enhance space-based capabilities; and power projection by tactical missile systems. During 2013, Congress began consideration of a new NASA Authorization Act, authorizing NASA funding for the next several years, starting with GFY 2014. Ultimately, Congress did not complete action on a new 18 Table of Contents NASA Authorization in 2013, but will likely resume consideration in 2014. In 2010, the NASA Authorization Act, which remains in effect, impacted GFYs 2011-2013. NASA has identified the SLS program as one of its top priorities in the NASA portion of the GFY 2014 President’s Budget Request. The SLS program also enjoys wide bipartisan support in both chambers of Congress. We maintain a strong relationship with NASA and our propulsion systems have been powering NASA launch vehicles and spacecraft since the inception of the U.S. Space Program. Our booster and upper stage propulsion systems are currently baselined on the new SLS vehicle and both upper stage and booster engines are in development for future SLS variants. Due to the retirement of the space shuttle fleet, U.S. astronauts are now dependent on Russian Soyuz flights for access to the ISS for the better part of this decade. NASA has indicated that it is working to re-establish U.S. manned space capability as soon as possible through development of the commercial cargo and crew ISS resupply capability and the heavy lift SLS designed for manned deep space exploration. In both instances, we have significant propulsion content. A decrease in DoD and/or NASA expenditures, the elimination or curtailment of a material program in which we are involved, or changes in payment patterns of our customers as a result of changes in U.S. government spending, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. The cancellation or material modification of one or more significant contracts could adversely affect our financial results. Sales, directly and indirectly, to the U.S. government and its agencies accounted for approximately 95% of our total net sales in fiscal 2013. Our contracts typically permit the U.S. government to unilaterally modify or terminate a contract or to discontinue funding for a particular program at any time. The cancellation of a contract, if terminated for cause, could also subject us to liability for the excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. If terminated for convenience, our recovery of costs would be limited to amounts already incurred or committed (including severance costs for terminated employees), and our profit would be limited based on the work completed prior to termination. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. government. U.S. government agencies, including the DCAA and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The U.S. government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s accounting systems, purchasing systems, property management systems, estimating systems, earned value management systems, and material management system. Any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. If we experience cost overruns on our contracts, we would have to absorb the excess costs which could adversely affect our financial results and our ability to win new contracts. In fiscal 2013, approximately 46% of our net sales were from fixed-price contracts, most of which are in mature production mode. Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform specified work for a fixed price and realize all of the profit or loss resulting from variations in the costs of performing the contract. As a result, all fixed-price contracts involve the inherent risk of unreimbursed cost overruns. To the extent we were to incur unanticipated cost overruns on a program or platform subject to a fixed-price contract, our profitability would be adversely affected. Future profitability is subject to risks including the ability of suppliers to deliver components of acceptable quality on schedule and the successful implementation of automated tooling in production processes. In fiscal 2013, approximately 49% of our net sales were from cost reimbursable contracts. Under cost reimbursable contracts, we agree to be reimbursed for allowable costs and be paid a fee. If our costs are in excess of the final target cost, fees, and our margin may be adversely affected. If our costs exceed authorized contract funding or they do not qualify as allowable costs under applicable regulations, we will not be reimbursed for those costs. Cost overruns may adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to win new contracts. 19 Table of Contents If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our contract performance and our ability to win new contracts may be adversely affected. We rely on subcontractors to perform a portion of the services we agree to provide our customers and on suppliers to provide raw materials and component parts for our contract performance. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors or suppliers to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon services or supplies may affect our ability to perform our contractual obligations. Deficiencies in the performance of our subcontractors and suppliers could result in our customer terminating our contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability and adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to win new contracts. Our success and growth in our Aerospace and Defense segment depends on our ability to execute long-standing programs and periodically secure new contracts in a competitive environment. Aerojet Rocketdyne’s revenue is primarily derived from long-standing contracts (often sole source) where Aerojet Rocketdyne is the long-term incumbent. The challenge for Aerojet Rocketdyne is to successfully utilize its technical, engineering, manufacturing, and management skills to execute these programs for the customer, to continue to innovate and refine its solutions, and to offer the customer increasing affordability in an era of fiscal restraint. If Aerojet Rocketdyne is unable to successfully execute these long-standing programs, our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers may be impaired. In addition, in sectors where there is competition, it can be intense. Many of our competitors have financial, technical, production, and other resources substantially greater than ours. Although the downsizing of the defense industry in the early 1990s resulted in a reduction in the aggregate number of competitors, the consolidation has also strengthened the capabilities of some of the remaining competitors. The U.S. government also has its own manufacturing capabilities in some areas. We may be unable to compete successfully with our competitors and our inability to do so could result in a decrease in sales, profits, and cash flows that we historically have generated from certain contracts. Further, the U.S. government may open to competition programs on which we are currently the sole supplier, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Our Aerospace and Defense segment is subject to procurement and other related laws and regulations inherent in contracting with the U.S. government, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our financial results. In the performance of contracts with the U.S. government, we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. government and its agencies, such as the DCAA. These agencies review performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. Systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting systems, purchasing systems, property management systems, estimating systems, earned value management systems, and material management and accounting system. Any costs ultimately found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions or suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. If such actions were to result in suspension or debarment, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. These laws and regulations provide for ongoing audits and reviews of incurred costs as well as contract procurement, performance and administration. The U.S. government may, if it deems appropriate, conduct an investigation into possible illegal or unethical activity in connection with these contracts. Investigations of this nature are common in the aerospace and defense industry, and lawsuits may result. In addition, the U.S. government and its principal prime contractors periodically investigate the financial viability of its contractors and subcontractors as part of its risk assessment process associated with the award of new contracts. If the U.S. government or one or more prime contractors were to determine that we were not financially viable, our ability to continue to act as a government contractor or subcontractor would be impaired. 20 Table of Contents Aerojet Rocketdyne’s international sales are subject to applicable laws relating to export controls, the violation of which could adversely affect its operations. A portion of the Aerojet Rocketdyne activities are subject to export control regulation by the U.S. Department of State under the U.S. Arms Export Control Act and International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”). The export of certain defense-related products, hardware, software, services and technical data is regulated by the State Department’s Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance (“DTCC”) under ITAR. DTCC administers the State Department’s authority under ITAR to impose civil penalties and other administrative sanctions for violations, including debarment from engaging in the export of defense articles or defense services. Violations of ITAR could result in significant sanctions including fines, more onerous compliance requirements, debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of the Aerojet Rocketdyne’s international business. In November 2011, DTCC informed UTC that it considers certain of UTC’s voluntary disclosures filed since 2005 to reflect deficiencies warranting penalties and sanctions. On June 28, 2012, UTC entered into a Consent Agreement (the “UTC Consent Agreement”) with DTCC to resolve a Proposed Charging Letter that references approximately 45 of UTC’s previous disclosures. The UTC Consent Agreement, which applies to the Rocketdyne Business, has a four-year term, and provides that UTC will: (1) pay a civil penalty of up to $55 million; (2) appoint, subject to DTCC approval, an outside special compliance official to oversee the compliance by UTC and its subsidiaries and divisions, including the Rocketdyne Business, with the UTC Consent Agreement and ITAR; (3) continue and undertake additional remedial actions to strengthen ITAR compliance, with emphasis on human resources and organization, training, automation, and security of electronic data; and (4) sponsor two outside ITAR compliance audits for UTC and its subsidiaries and divisions, including the Rocketdyne Business, during the term of the UTC Consent Agreement. In connection with the Acquisition, the DTCC agreed to release the Rocketdyne Business from the UTC Consent Agreement upon consummation of the Acquisition on the condition that we agreed to provide to the DTCC (i) our plan to integrate the Rocketdyne Business into our ITAR compliance program and (ii) an audit of the integration one year after closing the Acquisition. Further, UTC has agreed to reimburse us for any and all costs we incur to comply with these requirements. In connection with the closing of the Acquisition, we provided to the DTCC a letter committing to the DTCC’s conditions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in integrating the Rocketdyne Business into our ITAR compliance program or to prevent any further ITAR violations. A future violation of ITAR could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The acquisition of the 50% ownership of RD Amross is subject to a number of conditions which could delay or materially adversely affect the timing of its completion, or prevent it from occurring. On June 12, 2013, GenCorp and UTC entered into the Amended and Restated Purchase Agreement, which amended and restated the Original Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which GenCorp and UTC agreed to the Acquisition, subject to the terms and conditions therein. The Amended and Restated Purchase Agreement modified the Original Purchase Agreement to provide, among other things, that (i) GenCorp is not obligated to acquire the 50% membership interest of RD Amross, a Delaware limited liability company owned by UTC or the portion of the UTC business that markets and supports the sale of RD 180 engines (the “RDA Acquisition”) until certain conditions have been met, and (ii) $55 million of the Acquisition purchase price shall be payable to UTC upon such time as the RDA Acquisition may occur. Pursuant to the terms of the Amended and Restated Purchase Agreement, either party to such agreement may terminate the obligations to consummate the RDA Acquisition on or after June 12, 2015; provided, however, that such termination date may be extended for up to four additional periods of three months each (with the final termination date extended until June 12, 2016). Subject to the terms of Amended and Restated Purchase Agreement, in order to extend the termination date, either party may request the extension by providing written notice to the other party at least five business days prior to the termination date, provided that the requesting party must have a reasonable belief at the time such notice is given that a certain authorization for completion of the RDA Acquisition from the Russian government will be forthcoming. In addition, RD Amross is the subject of an investigation by the FTC into the exclusivity arrangements relating to the sales and purchases of the RD180 engine between RD Amross and its customer, ULA. Orbital has also 21 Table of Contents sued RD Amross and ULA in the Eastern District of Virginia, Orbital Sciences Corporation v. United Launch Alliance, LLC and RD Amross, LLC, Case No. 1:13CV753-LMB, alleging unfair competition and restraint of trade based on those exclusivity arrangements. Orbital seeks a permanent injunction against the exclusivity arrangements and alleges damages of at least $515 million, which it is seeking to treble up to $1.5 billion. Under the Amended and Restated Purchase Agreement, we have received a limited indemnity from UTC for the FTC investigation and Orbital lawsuit. If GenCorp completes the acquisition of RD Amross, an adverse outcome in either or both of these proceedings that results in liability in excess of the indemnification coverage under the Amended and Restated Purchase Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. There are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to the RDA Acquisition. The RDA Acquisition may not be consummated in the time frame or manner currently anticipated, if at all, including the receipt of certain Russian governmental regulatory approvals. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be obtained. We may face integration difficulties and may be unable to integrate the Rocketdyne Business into our existing operations successfully or realize the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition. We have devoted and will continue to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the operations and business practices of the Rocketdyne Business with our existing operations and business practices. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: • the inability to successfully integrate the Rocketdyne Business in a manner that permits us to achieve the full revenue and other benefits anticipated to result from the Acquisition; • complexities associated with managing the businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; • potential unknown liabilities not covered by indemnifications and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the Acquisition; • the inability to implement effective internal controls, procedures and policies for the Rocketdyne Business as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 within the time periods prescribed thereby; • the inability to implement effectively our new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system with respect to the Rocketdyne Business; • negotiations concerning possible modifications to the Rocketdyne Business’s contracts as a result of the Acquisition; • diversion of the attention of our management and the management of the Rocketdyne Business; and • the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, ongoing operations or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. These potential difficulties could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies and the ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition, and could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our operations and our financial results. Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we do not in a timely and cost effective manner establish our own financial, administrative, and other support functions, related to the acquisition of the Rocketdyne Business and we cannot assure you that the transitional services UTC agreed to provide us will be sufficient for our needs. In connection with the acquisition of the Rocketdyne Business, we have entered into a transition services agreement with UTC under which UTC is providing certain transitional services to us, including supply chain, information technology, accounting, human resources, treasury, and other services for a period of time. These services may not be sufficient to meet our needs. After our agreement with UTC expires, if we have not established our own support services related to the Acquisition, we may not be able to obtain these services at as favorable prices or on as favorable terms, if at all. 22 Table of Contents Any failure or significant downtime in UTC’s financial, administrative, or other support systems during the transitional period could negatively impact our results of operations or prevent us from paying our suppliers and employees, or performing administrative or other services on a timely basis, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Our future results could suffer if we cannot effectively manage our expanded operations as a result of the Acquisition. The size of our operations has increased significantly following the Acquisition. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage the expanded operations, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurance that we will be successful or that we will realize any operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits currently anticipated from the Acquisition. We have incurred substantial expenses related to the Acquisition and may incur significant expenses in the future related to the integration of the Rocketdyne Business. We have already incurred substantial expenses in connection with the Acquisition of the Rocketdyne Business. We have incurred $31.6 million of expenses related to the Acquisition through November 30, 2013. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing, marketing and benefits. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate. These integration expenses may result in us taking significant charges against earnings in future periods related to the Acquisition, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. The increase in our leverage and debt service obligations as a result of the Acquisition may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred additional indebtedness in order to finance the Acquisition. On January 28, 2013, we issued $460.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.125% Second-Priority Senior Secured Notes (“7 1/8% Notes”). The 7 1/8% Notes were sold to qualified institutional buyers in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and outside the U.S. in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. We used the net proceeds of the 7 1/8% Notes offering to fund, in part, the Acquisition, and to pay related fees and expenses. See Note 6 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Following the Acquisition, we have $699.2 million of outstanding indebtedness as of November 30, 2013, an increase of $450.5 million as compared with our level of outstanding indebtedness as of November 30, 2012. Our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. If we determine that it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. 23 Table of Contents We may expand our operations through acquisitions, which may divert management’s attention and expose us to unanticipated liabilities and costs. Also, acquisitions may increase our non-reimbursable costs. We may experience difficulties integrating any acquired operations, and we may incur costs relating to acquisitions that are never consummated. Our business strategy may lead us to expand our Aerospace and Defense segment through acquisitions. However, our ability to consummate any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by government regulations, the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources, and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, integrate general and administrative services and key information processing systems and, where necessary, re-qualify our customer programs. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs, and/or contingent liabilities. We may also incur costs and divert management attention to acquisitions that are never consummated. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated. Although we undertake a due diligence investigation of each business that we have acquired or may acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to, or were unable to, discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through indemnities and warranties from the seller. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor, or other reasons. Our inability to adapt to rapid technological changes could impair our ability to remain competitive. The aerospace and defense industry continues to undergo rapid and significant technological development. Our competitors may implement new technologies before us, allowing them to provide more effective products at more competitive prices. Future technological developments could: • adversely impact our competitive position if we are unable to react to these developments in a timely or efficient manner; • require us to write-down obsolete facilities, equipment, and technology; • require us to discontinue production of obsolete products before we can recover any or all of our related research, development and commercialization expenses; or • require significant capital expenditures for research, development, and launch of new products or processes. Our business and operations would be adversely impacted in the event of a failure of our information technology infrastructure or adversely impacted by a successful cyber-attack. We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. We are constantly updating our information technology infrastructure. Any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure or any failure in the operation of this infrastructure could harm our business. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems are vulnerable to damages from cyber-attacks, computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, successful cyber-attack, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. To the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, or negative publicity, it could harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. 24 Table of Contents The integration of the Rocketdyne Business into our ERP system may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. ERP integrations are complex and very time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and activities. If we do not effectively integrate the ERP system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect financial reporting systems, our ability to produce financial reports, and/or the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The integration of the Rocketdyne Business into our ERP solution is scheduled to be complete by January 1, 2015. Any extension beyond January 1, 2015 will result in us incurring additional implementation costs and require fees be paid to UTC for additional transitional services costs. We may experience warranty claims for product failures, schedule delays or other problems with existing or new products and systems. Many of the products we develop and manufacture are technologically advanced systems that must function under demanding operating conditions. Even though we believe that we employ sophisticated and rigorous design, manufacturing and testing processes and practices, we may not be able to successfully launch or manufacture our products on schedule or our products may not perform as intended. If our products fail to perform adequately, some of our contracts require us to forfeit a portion of our expected profit, receive reduced payments, provide a replacement product or service or reduce the price of subsequent sales to the same customer. Performance penalties may also be imposed if we fail to meet delivery schedules or other measures of contract performance. We do not generally insure against potential costs resulting from any required remedial actions or costs or loss of sales due to postponement or cancellation of scheduled operations or product deliveries. The release or explosion of dangerous materials used in our business could disrupt our operations and could adversely affect our financial results. Our business operations involve the handling and production of potentially explosive materials and other dangerous chemicals, including materials used in rocket propulsion and explosive devices. Despite our use of specialized facilities to handle dangerous materials and intensive employee training programs, the handling and production of hazardous materials could result in incidents that temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt our manufacturing operations and could cause production delays. It is possible that a release of these chemicals or an explosion could result in death or significant injuries to employees and others. Material property damage to us and third parties could also occur. The use of these products in applications by our customers could also result in liability if an explosion or fire were to occur. Any release or explosion could expose us to adverse publicity or liability for damages or cause production delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials, difficulties in the supplier qualification process or increases in prices of raw materials could adversely affect our financial results. We use a significant quantity of raw materials that are subject to market fluctuations and government regulations. Further, as a U.S. government contractor, we are often required to procure materials from suppliers capable of meeting rigorous customer and government specifications. As market conditions change for these companies, they often discontinue materials with low sales volumes or profit margins. We are often forced to either qualify new materials or pay higher prices to maintain the supply. Although to date we have been successful in establishing replacement materials and securing customer funding to address specific qualification needs of the programs, we may be unable to continue to do so. The supply of ammonium perchlorate, a principal raw material used in solid propellant, is limited to a single source that supplies the entire domestic solid propellant industry and actual pricing is based on the total industry demand. The slowdown and final close out of the Space Shuttle Program has reduced the total national demand, resulting in significant unit price increases. Pricing has stabilized with recent decisions from NASA to continue the Space Launch System Heavy Lift Vehicle program and the DoD to require the use of domestic ammonium perchlorate. In the majority of our contracts, we anticipated this price increase and incorporated abnormal escalation pricing language into our proposals and contracts. 25 Table of Contents We are also impacted, as is the rest of the industry, by fluctuations in the prices and lead-times of raw materials used in production on various fixed-price contracts, particularly on multi-year programs. We continue to experience volatility in the price and lead-times of certain commodity metals, primarily steel and aluminum. The schedules and pricing of titanium mill products have reduced recently but remain well above historical levels. Additionally, we may not be able to continue to negotiate with our customers for economic and/or price adjustment clauses tied to commodity indices to reduce program impact. The DoD also continues to rigorously enforce the provisions of the “Berry Amendment” which imposes a requirement to procure certain strategic materials critical to national security only from U.S. sources. While availability has not been a significant issue, cost remains a concern as this industry continues to quote “price in effect” at time of shipment terms, increasing the cost risk to our programs. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw materials, difficulty qualifying new sources of supply, implementing use of replacement materials or new sources of supply, and/or a continuing volatility in the prices of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we expect to be required to make cash contributions in future periods, which may reduce the cash available for our businesses. In November 2008, we decided to amend the defined benefit pension and benefits restoration plans to freeze future accruals under such plans. Effective February 1, 2009 and July 31, 2009, future benefit accruals for non-collective bargaining-unit employees and collective bargaining-unit employees were discontinued, respectively. As of the last measurement date at November 30, 2013, our total defined benefit pension plan assets and unfunded pension obligation for our tax-qualified pension plan were approximately $1,258.4 million and $261.7 million, respectively. We do not expect to make any significant cash contributions to our government contractor business segment tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan until fiscal 2015, which are recoverable through our U.S government contracts (see below). Additionally, we do not expect to make any significant cash contributions to the GenCorp tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan until fiscal 2018 or later, which are not recoverable through our U.S. government contracts. Further, with the Office of Federal Procurement Policy issuance of the final rule harmonizing Cost Accounting Standard (“CAS”) 412, Composition and Measurement of Pension Cost, and CAS 413, Adjustment and Allocation of Pension Cost, with the Pension Protection Act (the “PPA”), we will recover portions of any required pension funding through our government contracts. Approximately 91% of our unfunded pension benefit obligation as of November 30, 2013 is related to our government contracting Aerospace and Defense segment. The PPA requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios based on the funded status of the plan as of specified measurement dates through contributions or application of prepayment credits. As of November 30, 2013, we have accumulated $30.6 million in prepayment credits as a result of advanced funding. On July 6, 2012, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”) was signed into law by the U.S. government. MAP-21, in part, provides temporary relief for employers who sponsor defined benefit pension plans related to funding contributions under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Specifically, MAP-21 implemented a 25-year average interest rate corridor around the 24 month interest rate used for purposes of determining minimum funding obligations. This relief is expected to defer cash contributions until fiscal 2015. The funded status of our pension plans may be adversely affected by the investment experience of the plans’ assets, by any changes in U.S. law and by changes in the statutory interest rates used by tax-qualified pension plans in the U.S. to calculate funding requirements. Accordingly, if the performance of our plans’ assets does not meet our assumptions, if there are changes to the Internal Revenue Service regulations or other applicable law or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our future contributions to our underfunded pension plans could be higher than we expect. The level of returns on retirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates, changes in legislation, and other factors affects our financial results. The timing of recognition of pension expense or income in our financial statements differs from the timing of the required pension funding under PPA or the amount of funding that can be recorded in our overhead rates 26 Table of Contents through our government contracting business. Our earnings are positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense or income we record for our employee retirement benefit plans. We calculate the expense for the plans based on actuarial valuations. These valuations are based on assumptions that we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators result in changes in the assumptions we use. The key assumptions used to estimate retirement benefit plan expense for the following year are the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Our pension expense or income can also be affected by legislation and other government regulatory actions. Although some of our environmental expenditures may be recoverable and we have established reserves, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may not be sufficient, which could adversely affect our financial results and cash flows. As of November 30, 2013, the aggregate range of our estimated future environmental obligations was $171.3 million to $289.8 million and the accrued amount was $171.3 million. We believe the accrued amount for future remediation costs represents the costs that could be incurred by us over the contractual term, if any, or the next fifteen years of the estimated remediation, to the extent they are probable and reasonably estimable. However, in many cases the nature and extent of the required remediation has not yet been determined. Given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. We evaluate the adequacy of those reserves on a quarterly basis, and adjust them as appropriate. In addition, the reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination at those sites. It is possible that additional sites needing remediation may be identified or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites may be discovered. It is also possible that the regulatory agencies may change clean-up standards for chemicals of concern such as ammonium perchlorate and trichloroethylene. This could lead to additional expenditures for environmental remediation in the future and, given the uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. Most of our environmental costs are incurred by our Aerospace and Defense segment, and certain of these costs are allowed to be included in our contracts with the U.S. government or reimbursable by Northrop. Prior to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, approximately 12% of environmental reserve adjustments related to our Sacramento site and our former Azusa site were charged to the consolidated statements of operations. Subsequent to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, because we reached the reimbursement ceiling under the Northrop Agreement on an accrual basis, approximately 37% of environmental reserve adjustments are expensed to the consolidated statements of operations. We are seeking to amend our agreement with the U.S. government to increase the amount allocable to our U.S. government contracts; however, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in this pursuit. Our environmental expenses related to non-Aerojet Rocketdyne sites are generally not recoverable and a significant increase in these estimated environmental expenses could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Our operations and properties are currently the subject of significant environmental liabilities, and the numerous environmental and other government requirements to which we are subject may become more stringent in the future. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that, among other things, require us to obtain permits to operate and install pollution control equipment and regulate the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes. These requirements may become more stringent in the future. Additional regulations dictate how and to what level we remediate contaminated soils and the level to which we are required to clean contaminated groundwater. These requirements may also become more stringent in the future. We may also be subject to fines and penalties relating to the operation of our existing and formerly owned businesses. We have been and are subject to toxic tort and asbestos lawsuits as well as other third-party lawsuits, due to either our past or present use of hazardous substances or the alleged on-site or off-site contamination of the environment through past or present operations. We may incur material costs in defending these claims and lawsuits and any similar claims and lawsuits that may arise in the future. Contamination at our current and former properties is subject to investigation and remediation requirements under federal, state and 27 Table of Contents local laws and regulations, and the full extent of the required remediation has not yet been determined. Any adverse judgment or cash outlay could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. We are from time to time subject to significant litigation, the outcome of which could adversely affect our financial results. We and our subsidiaries are subject to material litigation. We may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits or claims. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can be very costly and can divert management’s efforts. Adverse outcomes in litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. A significant portion of our business relates to developing and manufacturing propulsion systems for defense and space applications, and armament systems for precision tactical weapon systems and munitions applications. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services. In some, but not all, circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the U.S. government. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Our inability to protect our patents and proprietary rights could adversely affect our businesses’ prospects and competitive positions. We seek to protect proprietary technology and inventions through patents and other proprietary-right protection. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. In addition, we may incur significant expense in protecting our intellectual property. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and know-how, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors. These agreements may be breached and remedies for a breach may not be sufficient to compensate us for damages incurred. We generally control and limit access to our product documentation and other proprietary information. Other parties may independently develop our know-how or otherwise obtain access to our technology. Business disruptions could seriously affect us. Our business may be affected by disruptions including, but not limited to: threats to physical security of our facilities and employees, including senior executives; terrorist acts; information technology attacks or failures; damaging weather or other acts of nature; and pandemics or other public health crises. The costs related to these events may not be fully mitigated by insurance or other means. Disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. If our operating subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flow or if they are not able to pay dividends or otherwise distribute their cash to us, or if we have insufficient funds on hand, we may not be able to service our debt. All of the operations of our Aerospace and Defense and Real Estate segments are conducted through subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to service our debt obligations will be largely dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of our operating subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us, or upon loans, advances or other payments made by these subsidiaries to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will depend upon their operating results and cash flows and will be subject to applicable laws and any contractual restrictions contained in the agreements governing their debt, if any. 28 Table of Contents We have a substantial amount of debt. Our ability to operate is limited by the agreements governing our debt. We have a substantial amount of debt for which we are required to make interest and principal payments. Interest on long-term financing is not a recoverable cost under our U.S. government contracts. As of November 30, 2013, we had $699.2 million of debt. Subject to the limits contained in some of the agreements governing our outstanding debt, we may incur additional debt in the future. Our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. Our level of debt places significant demands on our cash resources, which could: • make it more difficult to satisfy our outstanding debt obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash for payments related to our debt, reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, entitlement of our real estate assets, and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we compete; • place us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources than we do; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; • limit our ability to expand our operations through acquisitions; and • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and fund our operating costs, our liquidity may be adversely affected. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants outlined in our debt indentures and agreements that could restrict our operating activities. A failure to comply could result in a default under our senior credit facility entered into on November 18, 2011 (the “Senior Credit Facility”) with the lenders identified therein and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, which would, if not waived by the lenders which likely would come with substantial cost, accelerate the payment of our debt. A payment default under the Senior Credit Facility could result in cross defaults on our 7 1/8% Notes and our 4.0625% Convertible Subordinated Debentures (“4 1/16% Debentures”). Our debt instruments generally contain various restrictive covenants which include, among others, provisions which may restrict our ability to: • access the full amount of our revolving credit facility and/or incur additional debt; • enter into certain leases; • make certain distributions, investments, and other restricted payments; • cause our restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create certain liens; • purchase assets or businesses; • sell assets and, if sold, retain excess cash flow from these sales; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Our secured debt also contains other customary covenants, including, among others, provisions: • relating to the maintenance of the property collateralizing the debt; and • restricting our ability to pledge assets or create other liens. 29 Table of Contents In addition, certain covenants in our bank facility require that we maintain certain financial ratios. Based on our existing debt agreements, we were in compliance with our financial and non-financial covenants as of November 30, 2013. Any of the covenants described in this risk factor may restrict our operations and our ability to pursue potentially advantageous business opportunities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could also result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the Senior Credit Facility, the 7 1/8% Notes, and the 4 1/16% Debentures. In addition, our failure to pay principal and interest when due is a default under the Senior Credit Facility, and in certain cases, would cause cross defaults on the 7 1/8% Notes and 4 1/16% Debentures. We have limited collateral available for additional financing due to the fact that our indebtedness under the Senior Credit Facility is secured by (i) all equity interests owned or held by the Company, including interests in Easton and 66% of the voting stock (and 100% of the non-voting stock) of all present and future first-tier foreign subsidiaries of the Company and Aerojet Rocketdyne and (ii) substantially all of the tangible and intangible personal property and assets of the Company. In addition, our indebtedness under the Senior Credit Facility is secured by certain real property owned by the Company located in Orange, Virginia and Redmond, Washington. Except for certain real property located in Canoga Park, California acquired in connection with the Acquisition, the Company’s real property located in California, including the real estate holdings of Easton, is excluded from the collateral securing the Senior Credit Facility. The real estate market involves significant risk, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our real estate activities involve significant risks, which could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to various risks, including the following: • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary re-zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects; • we may be unable to complete environmental remediation or to have state and federal environmental restrictions on our property lifted, which could cause a delay or abandonment of these projects; • we may be unable to obtain sufficient water sources to service our projects, which may prevent us from executing our plans; • our real estate activities may require significant expenditures and we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our plans; • economic and political uncertainties could have an adverse effect on consumer buying habits, construction costs, availability of labor and materials and other factors affecting us and the real estate industry in general; • our property is subject to federal, state, and local regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations on our plans; • much of our property is raw land that includes the natural habitats of various endangered or protected wildlife species requiring mitigation; • if our land use plans are approved by the appropriate governmental authorities, we may face lawsuits from those who oppose such plans. Such lawsuits and the costs associated with such opposition could be material and have an adverse effect on our ability to sell property or realize income from our projects; and • the time frame required for approval of our plans means that we will have to wait years for a significant cash return. Substantially all of our excess real estate, that we are in the process of entitling for new opportunities, is located in Sacramento County, California making us vulnerable to changes in economic and other conditions in that particular market. As a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, our long-term real estate performance and the value of our properties will depend upon conditions in the Sacramento region, including: • the sustainability and growth of industries located in the Sacramento region; • the financial strength and spending of the State of California; 30 Table of Contents • local real estate market conditions; • changes in neighborhood characteristics; • changes in interest rates; and • real estate tax rates. If unfavorable economic or other conditions continue in the region, our plans and business strategy could be adversely affected. We may incur additional costs related to past or future divestitures, which could adversely affect our financial results. In connection with our divestitures of the Fine Chemicals and GDX Automotive businesses in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively, we have incurred and may incur additional costs, including costs related to the closure of a manufacturing facility in Chartres, France. As part of these and other divestitures, we have provided customary indemnification to the purchasers for such matters as claims arising from the operation of the businesses prior to disposition, including income tax matters and the liability to investigate and remediate certain environmental contamination existing prior to disposition. These additional costs and the indemnification of the purchasers of our former or current businesses may require additional cash expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. In order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees. Our business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. In addition, our inability to appropriately plan for the transfer or replacement of appropriate intellectual capital and skill sets critical to us could result in business disruptions and impair our ability to achieve business objectives. A strike or other work stoppage, or our inability to renew collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, could adversely affect our financial results. As of November 30, 2013, 14% of our 5,386 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. In the future, if we are unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements with the unions, upon expiration of the existing contracts, we could experience a strike or work stoppage. Even if we are successful in negotiating new agreements, the new agreements could call for higher wages or benefits paid to union members, which would increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our profitability. If our unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or other non-unionized operations were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of operations at our facilities or higher ongoing labor costs. A strike or other work stoppage in the facilities of any of our major customers or suppliers could also have similar effects on us. Due to the nature of our business, our sales levels may fluctuate causing our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Our quarterly and annual sales are affected by a variety of factors that may lead to significant variability in our operating results. In our Aerospace and Defense segment, sales earned under long-term contracts are recognized either on a cost basis, when deliveries are made, or when contractually defined performance milestones are achieved. The timing of deliveries or milestones may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. In our Real Estate segment, sales of property may be made from time to time, which may result in variability in our operating results and cash flows. 31 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. “Out of period” adjustments could require us to restate or revise previously issued financial statements. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. We rely on numerous manual processes to manage our business, which increases our risk of having an internal control failure. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. Although we review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if our independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules and/or regulations differently from our interpretation, then they may issue a report that is qualified. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. In addition, we have in the past recorded, and may in the future record, out of period adjustments to our financial statements. In making such adjustments we apply the analytical framework of SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99, “Materiality” (“SAB 99”), to determine whether the effect of any out of period adjustment to our financial statements is material and whether such adjustments, individually or in the aggregate, would require us to restate or revise our financial statements for previous periods. Under SAB 99, companies are required to apply quantitative and qualitative factors to determine the “materiality” of particular adjustments. We recorded out of period adjustments in fiscal 2013 and other prior periods, and in each instance determined that the adjustments were not material to the period in which the error originated or was corrected. In the future we may identify further out of period adjustments impacting our interim or annual financial statements. Depending upon the complete qualitative and quantitative analysis, this could result in us restating or revising previously issued financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 