Item 1A. Risk Factors The cancellation or material modification of one or more significant contracts could adversely affect our financial results. Sales, directly and indirectly, to the U.S. government and its agencies accounted for approximately 93% of our total net sales in fiscal 2011. Our contracts typically permit the U.S. government to unilaterally modify or terminate a contract or to discontinue funding for a particular program at any time. The cancellation of one or more significant contracts and/or programs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to realize anticipated sales and profits. The cancellation of a contract, if terminated for cause, could also subject us to liability for the excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. If terminated for convenience, our recovery of costs would be limited to amounts already incurred or committed, and our profit would be limited to work completed prior to termination. Future reductions or changes in U.S. government spending could adversely affect our financial results. Our primary aerospace and defense customers include the DoD, and its agencies, the government prime contractors that supply products to these customers, and NASA. As a result, we rely on particular levels of U.S. government spending on propulsion systems for defense and space applications and armament systems for precision tactical weapon systems and munitions applications, and our backlog depends, in a large part, on continued funding by the U.S. government for the programs in which we are involved. These spending levels are not generally correlated with any specific economic cycle, but rather follow the cycle of general political support for this 14 Table of Contents type of spending. Moreover, although our contracts often contemplate that our services will be performed over a period of several years, Congress usually must approve funds for a given program each government fiscal year and may significantly reduce or eliminate funding for a program. A decrease in DoD and/or NASA expenditures, the elimination or curtailment of a material program in which we are involved, or changes in payment patterns of our customers as a result of changes in U.S. government spending, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. As a part of the Budget Control Act of 2011 or, the “Act” (Public Law 112-25) (the debt-ceiling and deficit-reduction compromise agreement signed into law on August 2, 2011), approximately $487 billion in defense spending cuts over the next ten years have been initiated in GFY 2012 appropriations measures and the GFY 2013 budget request. On January 5, 2012, President Obama, Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs General Martin Dempsey unveiled the new military strategy that will guide and underpin the DoD’s budget decisions and global posture beginning with the GFY 2013 budget and over the next ten years. Specifics of the GFY 2013 defense cuts are anticipated to become public with the submission of the President’s Budget Request on February 6, 2012. Since the bicameral and bipartisan Congressional Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction created by the Act and charged with reducing the deficit by an additional $1.2 to $1.5 trillion over the ten years beginning with GFY 2013 failed to reach a compromise, additional mandatory spending caps will be triggered beginning in January 2013 if Congress and the Administration do not reach agreement on means to reduce the deficit by $1.2 trillion. Additional spending cuts that may be triggered include the potential for an additional $500 billion over nine years in defense cuts against overall Defense outlays for the period of well over $5 trillion. There remains a significant level of uncertainty and lack of detail available to predict specific future aerospace and defense spending. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. government. U.S. government agencies, including the DCAA and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The U.S. government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s management, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, accounting, and information systems. Any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. If we experience cost overruns on our contracts, we would have to absorb the excess costs which could adversely affect our financial results and our ability to win new contracts. In fiscal 2011, approximately 53% of our net sales was from fixed-price contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform specified work for a fixed price and realize all of the profit or loss resulting from variations in the costs of performing the contract. As a result, all fixed-price contracts involve the inherent risk of unreimbursed cost overruns. To the extent we were to incur unanticipated cost overruns on a program or platform subject to a fixed-price contract, our profitability would be adversely affected. Future profitability is subject to risks including the ability of suppliers to deliver components of acceptable quality on schedule and the successful implementation of automated tooling in production processes. In fiscal 2011, approximately 41% of our net sales was from cost reimbursable contracts. Under cost reimbursable contracts, we agree to be reimbursed for allowable costs and be paid a fee. If our costs are in excess of the final target cost, fees and our margin may be adversely affected. If our costs exceed authorized contract funding or they do not qualify as allowable costs under applicable regulations, we will not be reimbursed for those costs. Cost overruns may adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to win new contracts. 15 Table of Contents If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our contract performance and our ability to win new contracts may be adversely affected. We rely on subcontractors to perform a portion of the services we agree to provide our customers and on suppliers to provide raw materials and component parts for our contract performance. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors or suppliers to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon services or supplies may affect our ability to perform our contractual obligations. Deficiencies in the performance of our subcontractors and suppliers could result in our customer terminating our contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability and adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to win new contracts. Our success and growth in our Aerospace and Defense segment depends on our ability to execute longstanding programs and periodically secure new contracts. Aerojet’s revenue is primarily derived form longstanding contracts (often sole source) where Aerojet is the long-term incumbent. The challenge for Aerojet is to utilize its technical, engineering, manufacturing and management skills to execute these programs well for the customer, to continue to innovate and refine its solutions, and to offer the customer increasing affordability in an era of fiscal restraint. Aeroject has a history of continuing to innovate even while operating in a sole source environment. In sectors where there is competition, it can be intense. Many of our competitors have financial, technical, production, and other resources substantially greater than ours. Although the downsizing of the defense industry in the early 1990s resulted in a reduction in the aggregate number of competitors, the consolidation has also strengthened the capabilities of some of the remaining competitors. The U.S. government also has its own manufacturing capabilities in some areas. We may be unable to compete successfully with our competitors and our inability to do so could result in a decrease in sales, profits, and cash flows that we historically have generated from certain contracts. Further, the U.S. government may open to competition programs on which we are currently the sole supplier, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Our Aerospace and Defense segment is subject to procurement and other related laws and regulations inherent in contracting with the U.S. government, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our financial results. In the performance of contracts with the U.S. government, we are subject to complex and extensive procurement and other related laws and regulations. Possible consequences of a failure to comply, even inadvertently, with these laws and regulations include civil and criminal fines and penalties including, in some cases, double or triple damages, and suspension or debarment from future government contracts and exporting of goods for a specified period of time. These laws and regulations provide for ongoing audits and reviews of incurred costs as well as contract procurement, performance and administration. The U.S. government may, if it deems appropriate, conduct an investigation into possible illegal or unethical activity in connection with these contracts. Investigations of this nature are common in the aerospace and defense industry, and lawsuits may result. In addition, the U.S. government and its principal prime contractors periodically investigate the financial viability of its contractors and subcontractors as part of its risk assessment process associated with the award of new contracts. If the U.S. government or one or more prime contractors were to determine that we were not financially viable, our ability to continue to act as a government contractor or subcontractor would be impaired. We may expand our operations through acquisitions, which may divert management’s attention and expose us to unanticipated liabilities and costs. Also, acquisitions may increase our non-reimbursable costs. We may experience difficulties integrating any acquired operations, and we may incur costs relating to acquisitions that are never consummated. Our business strategy may lead us to expand our Aerospace and Defense segment through acquisitions. However, our ability to consummate any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by government regulations, the nu mber of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources, and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to 16 Table of Contents retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, integrate general and administrative services and key information processing systems and, where necessary, re-qualify our customer programs. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs, and/or contingent liabilities. We may also incur costs and divert management attention to acquisitions that are never consummated. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated. Although we undertake a due diligence investigation of each business that we have acquired or may acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to, or were unable to, discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through indemnities and warranties from the seller. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor, or other reasons. Our inability to adapt to rapid technological changes could impair our ability to remain competitive. The aerospace and defense industry continues to undergo rapid and significant technological development. Our competitors may implement new technologies before us, allowing them to provide more effective products at more competitive prices. Future technological developments could: • adversely impact our competitive position if we are unable to react to these developments in a timely or efficient manner; • require us to write-down obsolete facilities, equipment, and technology; • require us to discontinue production of obsolete products before we can recover any or all of our related research, development and commercialization expenses; or • require significant capital expenditures for research, development, and launch of new products or processes. Our business and operations would be adversely impacted in the event of a failure of our information technology infrastructure. We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. We are constantly updating our information technology infrastructure. Any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure or any failure in the operation of this infrastructure could harm our business. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems are vulnerable to damages from cyber-attacks, computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, successful cyber-attack, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. To the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, or negative publicity, it could harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. Our implementation of an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In fiscal 2011, we began implementing a new ERP system that will deliver a new generation of information systems and work processes. ERP implementations are complex and very time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities that take several years. If we do not effectively implement the ERP system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect financial reporting systems, our ability to produce financial reports, and/or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. 17 Table of Contents We may experience warranty claims for product failures, schedule delays or other problems with existing or new products and systems. Many of the products we develop and manufacture are technologically advanced systems that must function under demanding operating conditions. Even though we believe that we employ sophisticated and rigorous design, manufacturing and testing processes and practices, we may not be able to successfully launch or manufacture our products on schedule or our products may not perform as intended. If our products fail to perform adequately, some of our contracts require us to forfeit a portion of our expected profit, receive reduced payments, provide a replacement product or service or reduce the price of subsequent sales to the same customer. Performance penalties may also be imposed if we fail to meet delivery schedules or other measures of contract performance. We do not generally insure against potential costs resulting from any required remedial actions or costs or loss of sales due to postponement or cancellation of scheduled operations or product deliveries. The release or explosion of dangerous materials used in our business could disrupt our operations and could adversely affect our financial results. Our business operations involve the handling and production of potentially explosive materials and other dangerous chemicals, including materials used in rocket propulsion and explosive devices. Despite our use of specialized facilities to handle dangerous materials and intensive employee training programs, the handling and production of hazardous materials could result in incidents that temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt our manufacturing operations and could cause production delays. It is possible that a release of these chemicals or an explosion could result in death or significant injuries to employees and others. Material property damage to us and third parties could also occur. The use of these products in applications by our customers could also result in liability if an explosion or fire were to occur. Any release or explosion could expose us to adverse publicity or liability for damages or cause production delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials, difficulties in the supplier qualification process or increases in prices of raw materials could adversely affect our financial results. We use a significant quantity of raw materials that are highly dependent on market fluctuations and government regulations. Further, as a U.S. government contractor, we are often required to procure materials from suppliers capable of meeting rigorous customer and government specifications. As market conditions change for these companies, they often discontinue materials with low sales volumes or profit margins. We are often forced to either qualify new materials or pay higher prices to maintain the supply. To date we have been successful in establishing replacement materials and securing customer funding to address specific qualification needs of the programs. The supply of ammonium perchlorate, a principal raw material used in solid propellant, is limited to a single source that supplies the entire domestic solid propellant industry and actual pricing is based on the total industry demand. The slowdown and final close out of the Space Shuttle Program has reduced the total national demand, resulting in significant unit price increases. Pricing appears to be stabilizing with recent decisions from NASA to continue Space Launch System Heavy Lift Vehicle program and the DoD to require the use of domestic ammonium perchlorate. Primarily, price risk was foreseen and appropriate contract language is in place to compensate for market volatility for this product. We are also impacted, as is the rest of the industry, by fluctuations in the prices and lead-times of raw materials used in production on various fixed-price contracts. We continue to experience volatility in the price and lead-times of certain commodity metals, primarily steel and aluminum. The schedules and pricing of titanium mill products have reduced recently but remain well above historical levels. Additionally, we may not be able to continue to negotiate with our customers for economic and/or price adjustment clauses tied to commodity indices to reduce program impact. The DoD also continues to rigorously enforce the provisions of the “Berry Amendment” (DFARS 225-7002, 252.225-7014) which imposes a requirement to procure certain strategic materials critical to national security only from U.S. sources. While availability has not been a significant issue, cost remains a concern as this industry continues to quote “price in effect” at time of shipment terms, increasing the cost risk to our programs. 18 Table of Contents Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw materials, difficulty qualifying new sources of supply, implementing use of replacement materials or new sources of supply, and/or a continuing volatility in the prices of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Our pension plan is currently underfunded and we expect to be required to make cash contributions in future periods, which may reduce the cash available for our businesses. As of the last measurement date at November 30, 2011, our total defined benefit pension plan assets, total projected benefit obligations, and unfunded pension obligation for our qualified pension plan were approximately $1,296.8 million, $1,550.4 million, and $236.4 million, respectively. The Pension Protection Act (the “PPA”) requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the funded status of the plan as of specified measurement dates. Our funded ratio as of November 30, 2010 under the PPA for our tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan was 96.2% which was above the 96.0% funding target ratio required under the PPA. The required funded ratio to be met as of the November 30, 2011 measurement date is 100%. While the final calculated PPA funded ratio as of November 30, 2011 is expected to be completed in the second half of 2012, we do not anticipate meeting the 100% requirement which could trigger funding requirements in the future, but not prior to 2013, which is the earliest possible date funding would be required. We do not expect to make significant contributions to the tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan in 2012. See additional discussion at Note 6 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We have accumulated $59.5 million in prepayment credits as of November 30, 2011. Companies may prepay contributions and, under certain circumstances, use those prepayment credits to satisfy the required funding of the pension plan’s annual required contribution thereby allowing companies to defer cash payments into the pension plan. Further, with the Office of Federal Procurement Policy issuance of the final rule harmonizing Cost Accounting Standard (“CAS”) 412, Composition and Measurement of Pension Cost, and CAS 413, Adjustment and Allocation of Pension Cost with the PPA, on December 27, 2011, we expect to recover portions of any required pension funding through our government contracts on a more favorable basis. We are currently evaluating the impact of the harmonization of CAS 412 and CAS 413 on our financial statements. The funded status of the pension plan may be adversely affected by the investment experience of the plan’s assets, by any changes in U.S. law and by changes in the statutory interest rates used by “tax-qualified” pension plans in the U.S. to calculate funding requirements. Accordingly, if the performance of our plan’s assets does not meet our assumptions, if there are changes to the Internal Revenue Service regulations or other applicable law or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our future contributions to our underfunded pension plan could be higher than we expect. In addition, changes to the discount rate used to measure pension liabilities could adversely affect the funded status of the plan. The level of returns on retirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates, changes in legislation, and other factors affects our financial results. Our earnings are positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense or income we record for our employee retirement benefit plans. We calculate the expense for the plans based on actuarial valuations. These valuations are based on assumptions that we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators result in changes in the assumptions we use. The key assumptions used to estimate retirement benefit plan expense for the following year are the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Our pension expense or income can also be affected by legislation and other government regulatory actions. 19 Table of Contents Our operations and properties are currently the subject of significant environmental liabilities, and the numerous environmental and other government requirements to which we are subject may become more stringent in the future. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that, among other things, require us to obtain permits to operate and install pollution control equipment and regulate the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes. These requirements may become more stringent in the future. Additional regulations dictate how and to what level we remediate contaminated soils and the level to which we are required to clean contaminated groundwater. These requirements may also become more stringent in the future. We may also be subject to fines and penalties relating to the operation of our existing and formerly owned businesses. We have been and are subject to toxic tort and asbestos lawsuits as well as other third-party lawsuits, due to either our past or present use of hazardous substances or the alleged on-site or off-site contamination of the environment through past or present operations. We may incur material costs in defending these claims and lawsuits and any similar claims and lawsuits that may arise in the future. Contamination at our current and former properties is subject to investigation and remediation requirements under federal, state and local laws and regulations, and the full extent of the required remediation has not yet been determined. Any adverse judgment or cash outlay could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Although some of our environmental costs may be recoverable and we have established reserves, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may not be sufficient, which could adversely affect our financial results. As of November 30, 2011, the aggregate range of our environmental costs was $190.6 million to $333.7 million and the accrued amount was $190.6 million, of which $181.4 million relates to Aerojet sites and $9.2 million relates to non-Aerojet sites. We believe the accrued amount for future remediation costs represents the costs that could be incurred by us over the contractual term, if any, or the next fifteen years of the estimated remediation, to the extent they are probable and reasonably estimable. However, in many cases the nature and extent of the required remediation has not yet been determined. Given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. We evaluate the adequacy of those reserves on a quarterly basis, and they could change. In addition, the reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination at those sites. It is possible that additional sites needing remediation may be identified or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites may be discovered. It is also possible that the regulatory agencies may change clean-up standards for chemicals of concern such as ammonium perchlorate and trichloroethylene. This could lead to additional expenditures for environmental remediation in the future and, given the uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. Most of our environmental costs are incurred by our Aerospace and Defense segment, and certain of these costs are allowable to be included in our contracts with the U.S. government or reimbursable by Northrop. Prior to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, approximately 12% of such costs related to our Sacramento site and our former Azusa site were charged to the consolidated statements of operations. Subsequent to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, because we reached the reimbursement ceiling under the Northrop Agreement, approximately 37% of such costs are expensed to the consolidated statements of operations. However, we are seeking to amend our agreement with the U.S. government to increase the amount allocable to U.S. government contracts. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in this pursuit. Our environmental expenses related to non-Aerojet sites are generally not recoverable and a significant increase in these estimated environmental expenses could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. 20 Table of Contents We are from time to time subject to significant litigation, the outcome of which could adversely affect our financial results. We and our subsidiaries are subject to material litigation. We may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits or claims. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can be very costly and can divert management’s efforts. Adverse outcomes in litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. A significant portion of our business relates to developing and manufacturing propulsion systems for defense and space applications, armament systems for precision tactical weapon systems and munitions applications. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services. In some, but not all, circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the U.S. government. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Our inability to protect our patents and proprietary rights could adversely affect our businesses’ prospects and competitive positions. We seek to protect proprietary technology and inventions through patents and other proprietary-right protection. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. In addition, we may incur significant expense in protecting our intellectual property. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and know-how, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors. These agreements may be breached and remedies for a breach may not be sufficient to compensate us for damages incurred. We generally control and limit access to our product documentation and other proprietary information. Other parties may independently develop our know-how or otherwise obtain access to our technology. Business disruptions could seriously affect us. Our business may be affected by disruptions including, but not limited to: threats to physical security of our facilities and employees, including senior executives; terrorist acts; information technology attacks or failures; damaging weather or other acts of nature; and pandemics or other public health crises. The costs related to these events may not be fully mitigated by insurance or other means. Disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. If our operating subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flow or if they are not able to pay dividends or otherwise distribute their cash to us, or if we have insufficient funds on hand, we may not be able to service our debt. All of the operations of our Aerospace and Defense and Real Estate segments are conducted through subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to service our debt obligations will be largely dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of our operating subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us, or upon loans, advances or other payments made by these subsidiaries to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will depend upon their operating results and cash flows and will be subject to applicable laws and any contractual restrictions contained in the agreements governing their debt, if any. 21 Table of Contents We have a substantial amount of debt. Our ability to operate is limited by the agreements governing our debt. We have a substantial amount of debt for which we are required to make interest and principal payments. Interest on long-term financing is not a recoverable cost under our U.S. government contracts. As of November 30, 2011, we had $326.4 million of debt. Subject to the limits contained in some of the agreements governing our outstanding debt, we may incur additional debt in the future. Our level of debt places significant demands on our cash resources, which could: • make it more difficult to satisfy our outstanding debt obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash for payments related to our debt, reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, entitlement of our real estate assets, and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we compete; • place us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources than we do; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; • limit our ability to expand our operations through acquisitions; and • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and fund our operating costs, our liquidity may be adversely affected. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants outlined in our debt indentures and agreements that could restrict our operating activities. A failure to comply could result in a default under our second amended and restated credit agreement (the “Senior Credit Facility”) which would, if not waived by the lenders which likely would come with substantial cost, accelerate the payment of our debt. A payment default under the Senior Credit Facility could result in cross defaults on our 9 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes (“9 1/2% Notes”), and 4.0625% Convertible Subordinated Debentures (“4 1/16% Debentures”). Our debt instruments generally contain various restrictive covenants which include, among others, provisions which may restrict our ability to: • access the full amount of our revolving credit facility and/or incur additional debt; • enter into certain leases; • make certain distributions, investments, and other restricted payments; • cause our restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create certain liens; • purchase assets or businesses; • sell assets and, if sold, retain excess cash flow from these sales; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Our secured debt also contains other customary covenants, including, among others, provisions: • relating to the maintenance of the property collateralizing the debt; and • restricting our ability to pledge assets or create other liens. 22 Table of Contents In addition, certain covenants in our bank facility require that we maintain certain financial ratios. Based on our existing debt agreements, we were in compliance with our financial and non-financial covenants as of November 30, 2011. Any of the covenants described in this risk factor may restrict our operations and our ability to pursue potentially advantageous business opportunities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could also result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the Senior Credit Facility, 9 1/2% Notes, and 4 1/16% Debentures. In addition, our failure to pay principal and interest when due is a default under the Senior Credit Facility, and in certain cases, would cause cross defaults on the 9 1/2% Notes and 4 1/16% Debentures. We have limited collateral available for additional financing due to the fact that our indebtedness under the Senior Credit Facility is collateralized by (i) all equity interests owned or held by the Company and Aerojet, including interests in the Company’s Easton Development Company, LLC subsidiary (“Easton”) and 66% of the voting stock (and 100% of the non-voting stock) of all present and future first-tier foreign subsidiaries of the Company and Aerojet, (ii) substantially all of the tangible and intangible personal property and assets of the Company and Aerojet; and (iii) certain real property owned by the Company and Aerojet located in Orange, Virginia and Redmond, Washington. The Company’s real property located in California, including the real estate holdings of Easton, is excluded from collateralization under the Senior Credit Facility. The real estate market is inherently risky, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our real estate activities involve significant risks, which could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to various risks, including the following: • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary re-zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects; • we may be unable to complete environmental remediation or to have state and federal environmental restrictions on our property lifted, which could cause a delay or abandonment of these projects; • we may be unable to obtain sufficient water sources to service our projects, which may prevent us from executing our plans; • our real estate activities require significant expenditures and we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our plans; • economic and political uncertainties could have an adverse effect on consumer buying habits, construction costs, availability of labor and materials and other factors affecting us and the real estate industry in general; • our property is subject to federal, state, and local regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations on our plans; • much of our property is raw land that includes the natural habitats of various endangered or protected wildlife species requiring mitigation; • if our land use plans are approved by the appropriate governmental authorities, we may face lawsuits from those who oppose such plans. Such lawsuits and the costs associated with such opposition could be material and have an adverse effect on our ability to sell property or realize income from our projects; and • the time frame required for approval of our plans means that we will have to wait years for a significant cash return. 23 Table of Contents Substantially all of our excess real estate, that we are in the process of entitling for new opportunities, is located in Sacramento County, California making us vulnerable to changes in economic and other conditions in that particular market. As a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, our long-term real estate performance and the value of our properties will depend upon conditions in the Sacramento region, including: • the sustainability and growth of industries located in the Sacramento region; • the financial strength and spending of the State of California; • local real estate market conditions; • changes in neighborhood characteristics; • changes in interest rates; and • real estate tax rates. If unfavorable economic or other conditions continue in the region, our plans and business strategy could be adversely affected. We may incur additional costs related to divestitures, which could adversely affect our financial results. In connection with our divestitures of the Fine Chemicals and GDX Automotive businesses in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively, we have incurred and may incur additional costs, including costs related to the closure of a manufacturing facility in Chartres, France. As part of these and other divestitures, we have provided customary indemnification to the purchasers for such matters as claims arising from the operation of the businesses prior to disposition, including warranty and income tax matters, and liability to investigate and remediate certain environmental contamination existing prior to disposition. These additional costs and the indemnification of the purchasers of our former businesses may require additional cash expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. In order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees. Our business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. In addition, our inability to appropriately plan for the transfer or replacement of appropriate intellectual capital and skill sets critical to us could result in business disruptions and impair our ability to achieve business objectives. A strike or other work stoppage, or our inability to renew collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, could adversely affect our financial results. As of November 30, 2011, 12% of our 3,268 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. In June 2011, we entered into a new collective bargaining agreement with substantially all of our covered employees through June 2014. In the future, if we are unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements with the unions, upon expiration of the existing contracts, we could experience a strike or work stoppage. Even if we are successful in negotiating new agreements, the new agreements could call for higher wages or benefits paid to union members, which would increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our profitability. If our unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or other non-unionized operations were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of operations at our facilities or higher ongoing labor costs. A strike or other work stoppage in the facilities of any of our major customers or suppliers could also have similar effects on us. 24 Table of Contents Due to the nature of our business, our sales levels may fluctuate causing our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly and annual sales are affected by a variety of factors that may lead to significant variability in our operating results. In our Aerospace and Defense segment, sales earned under long-term contracts are recognized either on a cost basis, when deliveries are made, or when contractually defined performance milestones are achieved. The timing of deliveries or milestones may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. In our Real Estate segment, sales of property may be made from time to time, which may result in variability in our operating results and cash flows. We use estimates in accounting for most of our programs. Changes in our estimates could affect our future financial results. Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract sales and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total sales and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impacts of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Estimates of award and incentive fees are also used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may adversely affect our future period operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. New accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect our financial results. Changes to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America arise from new and revised standards, interpretations, the potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and other guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC, and others. On December 27, 2011, the Office of Federal Procurement Policy issued its final rule harmonizing CAS 412, Composition and Measurement of Pension Cost, and CAS 413, Adjustment and Allocation of Pension Cost with the PPA. We are currently evaluating the impact of the harmonization of CAS 412 and CAS 413 on our financial statements. Further, our current Forward Pricing Rates (“FPRs”) did not yet reflect the full effect of the PPA and harmonized CAS 412 and 413 requirements at November 30, 2011. The PPA and harmonized CAS 412 and 413 funding requirements are expected to be incorporated into our FPRs in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. “Out of period” adjustments could require us to restate or revise previously issued financial statements. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. We rely on numerous manual processes to manage our business, which increases our risk of having an internal control failure. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 10-K. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. Although we review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if our 25 Table of Contents independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules and/or regulations differently from our interpretation, then they may issue a report that is qualified. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. In addition, we have in the past recorded, and may in the future record, out of period adjustments to our financial statements. In making such adjustments we apply the analytical framework of SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99, “Materiality” (“SAB 99”), to determine whether the effect of any out of period adjustment to our financial statements is material and whether such adjustments, individually or in the aggregate, would require us to restate or revise our financial statements for previous periods. Under SAB 99, companies are required to apply quantitative and qualitative factors to determine the “materiality” of particular adjustments. We recorded out of period adjustments in fiscal 2011 and 2010 related to our income tax provision and in each instance determined that such adjustments were not material to the period in which the error originated or was corrected. In the future we may identify further out of period adjustments impacting our interim or annual financial statements. Depending upon the complete qualitative and quantitative analysis, this could result in us restating or revising previously issued financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 