risk factors are difficult to predict, contain material uncertainties that may affect actual results and may be beyond our control. We are a technology-based aerospace and defense manufacturer operating in the United States with significant real estate assets. Our continuing operations are organized into two segments: Aerospace and Defense — includes the operations of Aerojet-General Corporation, or Aerojet, which develops and manufactures propulsion systems for defense and space applications, armament systems for precision tactical weapon systems and munitions applications. We are one of the largest providers of propulsion systems in the United States and the only company that provides both Solid and Liquid propellant based systems. Primary customers served include major prime contractors to the United States (U.S.) government, the Department of Defense (DoD), and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Real Estate — includes activities related to the re-zoning, entitlement, sale, and leasing of our real estate assets. Through our Aerojet subsidiary, we own approximately 12,600 acres of land adjacent to U.S. Highway 50 between Rancho Cordova and Folsom, California just east of Sacramento, which we refer to as the Sacramento Land. We are currently in the process of seeking zoning changes and other governmental approvals on a portion of the Sacramento Land to optimize its value. We have filed applications with and submitted information to governmental and regulatory authorities for approvals necessary to re-zone over 6,400 acres of the Sacramento Land. During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, we announced plans to sell our GDX Automotive (GDX) business, which developed and manufactured vehicle sealing systems for automotive original equipment manufacturers. This decision was a result of declining volumes and continued challenges in this market environment including adverse customer pricing pressures, increased material costs, high development and start-up costs and increased working capital requirements. In accordance with our plan to sell the GDX business, we classified our GDX business as a discontinued operation during the second quarter of fiscal 2004. During the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we completed the sale of GDX to Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. for $147 million, subject to adjustment, of which $140 million has been received as of November 30, 2005. 1 Table of Contents On October 15, 2004, we announced our strategic decision to sell our Fine Chemicals business, which, through Aerojet Fine Chemicals, was a custom manufacturer of active pharmaceutical ingredients and registered intermediates for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. This plan was a result of management’s decision to focus our capital and resources on our Aerospace and Defense and Real Estate segments. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we completed the sale of the Fine Chemicals to American Pacific Corporation (AMPAC) for $114 million, subject to adjustment, consisting of $88 million of cash, unsecured subordinated seller note of $26 million, and the assumption by the buyer of certain liabilities. Additionally, AMPAC may be required to pay us up to $5 million based on the Fine Chemicals business achieving specified earning targets in the twelve month period ending September 30, 2006. Our fiscal year ends on November 30 of each year. When we refer to a fiscal year, such as fiscal 2005, we are referring to the fiscal year ended on November 30 of that year. We were incorporated in Ohio in 1915 and our principal executive offices are located at Highway 50 and Aerojet Road, Rancho Cordova, CA 95670. Our mailing address is P.O. Box 537012, Sacramento, CA 95853-7012 and our telephone number is 916-355-4000. Our Internet web site address is www.GenCorp.com. We have made available through our Internet web site, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on our Internet web site our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for each of the following committees of the Company’s Board of Directors: Audit; Corporate Governance & Nominating; Finance; and Organization & Compensation. Our corporate governance guidelines and such charters are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Aerospace and Defense For over 60 years, Aerojet has been an industry leader and pioneer in the development of critical products and technologies that have strengthened the U.S. military and enabled the exploration of space. Aerojet focuses on creating military defense systems, as well as military, civil and commercial space systems, that address the needs of two broad industry sectors: defense systems and space systems. Aerojet believes it is in a unique competitive position, due to the diversity of its propulsion technologies (solid, liquid, gels, air-breathing and electric) and synergy of its product lines to offer its customers the most innovative and advanced solutions available in the domestic propulsion market. Aerojet has historically been able to capitalize on its strong technical capabilities to become a critical provider of components and systems for major propulsion programs. Aerojet propulsion systems have flown prominently on manned and unmanned missions for NASA and the DoD since the inception of the U.S. Space Program. Principal customers include the DoD, NASA, The Boeing Company (Boeing), Lockheed Martin Corporation (Lockheed Martin) and Raytheon Company (Raytheon). • Defense systems — Our defense systems products include liquid, solid and air-breathing propulsion for strategic and tactical missiles, precision strike missiles and interceptors required for missile defense. In addition, Aerojet is a leading supplier of armament systems to the DoD and its prime contractors. Product applications for defense systems include strategic and tactical missile motors, maneuvering propulsion systems, attitude control systems and warhead assemblies used in precision weapon systems and missile defense, as well as advanced airframe structures required on the F-22 Raptor aircraft and fire suppression systems for military and commercial vehicles. • Space systems — Our space systems products include liquid, solid and electric propulsion systems for launch vehicles, transatmospheric vehicles and spacecraft. Product applications for space systems include liquid engines for expendable and reusable launch vehicles, upper stage engines, satellite propulsion, large solid boosters and integrated propulsion subsystems. 2 Table of Contents Aerojet has been proactively engaged in the consolidation of the propulsion industry. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, Aerojet acquired from Pratt & Whitney’s Chemical Systems Division (CSD) certain intellectual property and personal property associated with several solid rocket motor programs for a nominal amount. This transaction highlights a key event in the continuing consolidation of the propulsion industry because CSD has now exited the solid propulsion business. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, Aerojet acquired substantially all of the assets of the propulsion business of Atlantic Research Corporation (ARC), a subsidiary of Sequa Corporation. This acquisition made Aerojet a leading supplier of solid rocket motors for tactical and missile defense applications and complements Aerojet’s capabilities for air-breathing and strategic systems. In fiscal 2002, Aerojet acquired the assets of the General Dynamics’ Ordnance and Tactical Systems Space Propulsion and Fire Suppression business (Redmond, Washington operations), a leading supplier of satellite propulsion systems for defense, civilian and commercial applications. These acquisitions have strengthened our market positions in both the defense systems and space systems industry sectors, and have provided leadership positions in the tactical and in-space propulsion market. Although the major propulsion industry consolidation is over, our business strategy contemplates continued expansion of our Aerospace and Defense operations including growth through acquisitions that make both strategic and economic sense. Aerojet has also expanded its Aerospace and Defense production capabilities, with the completion of two facility expansion projects in fiscal 2005. The first expansion in Socorro, New Mexico, is dedicated to the production of fire suppression systems for commercial and military vehicles and the second, in Camden, Arkansas, is dedicated to high rate explosive fills and warhead assemblies. These new manufacturing facilities will strengthen Aerojet’s competitive position in the fire safety and warhead markets respectively. Industry Overview While broad support continues for DoD and NASA budgets in the government Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 and beyond, the impact of the global war on terrorism, the cost of military support in Iraq and Afghanistan, the rising federal deficit, and the significant recovery costs of the 2005 hurricane season may impact these budgets in the near-term. Department of Defense Following a period of budget decreases in the post-Cold War era, the U.S. defense budget, as appropriated by Congress, has increased in recent years. Under the Bush Administration, the national defense discretionary budget authority has risen to over $401 billion in FY 2005 from $319 billion since FY 2001. The DoD has requested $419 billion in discretionary budget authority for FY 2006, and there are proposals to increase it to $445 billion in FY 2007. We expect the U.S. defense budgets for research, development, test and evaluation, and procurement — the primary funding sources for Aerojet’s programs — to grow as well, with annual forecasts continuing to show increases through FY 2010. While the top line number continues to increase, the Pentagon has announced it favors reductions in the overall rate of growth. While the ultimate distribution of the defense budget remains uncertain, Aerojet is well positioned to benefit from DoD investment in high priority transformational systems that address contemporary war fighting needs and requirements. In fiscal 2005, the Defense Department finalized work on the Quadrennial Defense Review, the once-in-four-year review of U.S. military strategy and force structure. Although the document is not expected to be published until early 2006, we believe the document may recommend, among other things, adaptation of current weapon systems to new kinds of threats, suggesting that a number of Aerojet’s existing product platforms in the tactical and missile defense areas may be headed for upgrades or new applications as opposed to being displaced downstream by new systems. Requirements for long-range precision strike capabilities and active protection of military satellites and in-space systems may also be contained in the document. These requirements, if they hold, suggest to us that maneuvering and in-space propulsion as well as hypersonics may see new development opportunities in the near future as the DoD adjusts its focus more substantively to confronting asymmetrical, non-traditional threats. 3 Table of Contents NASA The United States Congress continues to support the new Vision for Space Exploration, unveiled in 2004, which renews commitments to space and planetary exploration. The Bush Administration announced plans early in 2005 to increase NASA’s FY 2005 budget of $16 billion by an average of 3% over the next two years and by approximately 2% in the three subsequent years. More recently, congressional committees have been considering the authorization of additional appropriations for NASA in FY 2007 and FY 2008. The NASA Administrator has indicated that his primary objective will be to complete the Space Station and retire the Space Shuttle by 2010 and develop a new Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV) before 2014. Additionally, it is anticipated that the Office of Management and Budgets (OMB) will recommend to Congress that NASA’s previously separate budgets for Exploration (e.g. CEV) and Space Operations (i.e. Space Shuttle) be consolidated in FY 2007. If approved by Congress, this would provide the NASA Administrator with unprecedented reprogramming flexibility to accelerate CEV transition. As the market leader of In-Space propulsion system products, CEV poses a significant opportunity to continue Aerojet’s legacy of providing mission-critical propulsion systems to NASA as it has since the inception of the U.S. manned space program. We believe Aerojet is well-positioned to provide propulsion solutions in NASA’s special interest areas — advanced propellant technology, reliable launch abort for crew survivability, attitude/ reaction control systems, and robotic exploration propulsion. Furthermore, as a result of NASA’s intention to retire the Space Shuttle from service as early as 2010, we believe that NASA will focus on maneuvering and long-duration propulsion systems that are currently available and flight-proven, which will present additional opportunities for existing Aerojet systems. Competition Participation in the defense and space propulsion market is capital intensive and requires long research and development periods that represent significant barriers to entry. Aerojet may partner on various programs with its major customers or suppliers, some of whom are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. The table below lists the primary participants in the propulsion market serving the U.S. government and its agencies: Company Parent Propulsion Type Propulsion Application Aerojet GenCorp Inc. Solid, liquid, air- breathing, electric Launch, in-space, tactical, strategic, missile defense Alliant Techsystems Alliant Techsystems Inc. Solid, air-breathing Launch, tactical, strategic, missile defense Astrium European Aeronautics Defense and Space Company and BAE Systems Solid, liquid In-space, tactical Northrop Grumman Space Technology (Formerly TRW) Northrop Grumman Corporation Liquid Launch, in-space Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne United Technologies Corporation Liquid, air-breathing, electric Launch, in-space, missile defense United Technologies Corporation acquired the Rocketdyne division of Boeing in 2005, forming the largest liquid propulsion contractor in the U.S. domestic market and making Aerojet the number two provider. The domestic solid propulsion market remained unchanged in 2005 with Aerojet in the number two position behind Alliant Techsystems. As the only domestic supplier of both solid and liquid propulsion systems, Aerojet believes it is in a unique competitive position. The diversity of its technologies and synergy of its product lines offer Aerojet customers the most innovative and advanced solutions available in the domestic propulsion market. The basis on which Aerojet competes in the Aerospace and Defense industry varies by program, but generally is based upon price, technology, quality and service. Although competition is intensive 4 Table of Contents for all of Aerojet’s products and services, Aerojet believes it possesses adequate resources to compete successfully. Major Customers As a merchant supplier to the aerospace and defense industry, we do not align ourselves with any single prime contractor except on a project-by-project basis. We believe that our position as a merchant supplier has helped us become a trusted partner to our customers, enabling us to maintain strong relationships with a variety of prime contractors. Under each of our contracts, we act either as a prime contractor, where we sell directly to the end user, or as a subcontractor, where we sell our products to other prime contractors. The principal end-user customers of our products and technology include agencies of the U.S. government. Since a majority of Aerojet’s sales are, directly or indirectly, to the U.S. government, funding for the purchase of Aerojet’s products and services generally follows trends in U.S. defense spending. However, individual government agencies, which include the military services, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), NASA, the Missile Defense Agency, and the prime contractors that serve these agencies, exercise independent purchasing power within “budget top-line” limits. Therefore, sales to the U.S. government are not regarded as sales to one customer and, accordingly, each contracting agency is viewed as a separate customer. Thus, while we believe the DoD and NASA budgets are generally relevant to our business outlook, closer examination of the needs and priorities of the U.S. government agencies provides a better indication of product area stability and growth potential. Aerojet contracts directly with a number of major prime contractors and directly with agencies of the U.S. government. During fiscal 2005, Lockheed Martin and Raytheon accounted for approximately 39% and 16%, respectively, of net sales. Aerojet’s direct sales to the U.S. government and its agencies, or government customers, and indirect sales to government customers via direct sales to prime contractors accounted for a total of approximately 81% of Aerojet’s sales, or approximately $501 million, in fiscal 2005. The following are approximate percentages of Aerojet’s net sales by principal end user in fiscal 2005: U.S. Air Force 23 % U.S. Army 22 % NASA 20 % U.S. Navy 16 % Total government customers 81 % Commercial customers 19 % Total 100 % 5 Table of Contents Major Programs Defense systems — Aerojet believes it is in a unique competitive position due to the diversity of its propulsion technologies (solid, liquid, gels, air-breathing and electric), its complete warhead capabilities and the synergy of its product lines to offer its defense customers the most innovative and advanced solutions available in the domestic market. In fiscal 2005, Aerojet expanded its defense systems footprint by reentering the strategic Inter-Continental Ballistic Missile (ICBM market) with the awarding of the Air Force’s Phase II Advanced Second Stage booster development program. A subset of our key defense systems programs is listed below: Program Primary Customer End Users Program Description Program Status Army Tactical Missile System (ATACMS) Lockheed Martin U.S. Army Tactical solid rocket motors Production F-22 Raptor Aircraft Boeing U.S. Air Force Advanced electron beam welding for airframe structures Production Ground Based Mid-Course Defense (GMD) Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle Liquid Divert and Attitude Control Systems (DACS) Raytheon Missile Defense Agency Liquid propulsion divert and attitude control propulsion systems Development/ Production Minuteman III Northrop Grumman U.S. Air Force Liquid maneuvering propulsion Development/ Production HyFly (Hypersonic Flight) Boeing U.S. Navy Dual combustion ramjet (air-breathing) Development Javelin Lockheed Martin/ Raytheon U.S. Army Tactical solid rocket motors Development/ Production Joint Common Missile (JCM) Lockheed Martin U.S. Army Tactical solid rocket motors Development Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS) Lockheed Martin U.S. Army, International Tactical solid rocket motors Production Non-Line of Sight Missile (NLOS) Lockheed Martin/ Raytheon U.S. Army Tactical solid rocket motors Development Patriot Advanced Capability (PAC)-3 Lockheed Martin U.S. Army, Missile Defense Agency Tactical solid rocket motors Development/ Production Tube-launched, Optically- tracked, Wire-guided Missile (TOW) Raytheon U.S. Army Tactical solid rocket warheads Production Standard Missile Raytheon U.S. Navy, Missile Defense Agency Tactical solid rocket motors Development/ Production Small Diameter Bomb Boeing U.S. Air Force Precision munitions Development/ Production Terminal High Altitude Air Defense (THAAD) Lockheed Martin U.S. Army, Missile Defense Agency Tactical solid rocket motors Development Supersonic Sea Skimming Target (SSST) Orbital Sciences Corporation U.S. Navy Variable flow ducted rocket (air-breathing) Production 6 Table of Contents Program Primary Customer End Users Program Description Program Status Tactical Tomahawk Raytheon U.S. Navy Tactical solid rocket motors and warheads Production Advanced Second Stage Booster (ICBM) U.S. Air Force U.S. Air Force Solid Booster Development Space Systems Programs — Aerojet improved its already strong market position in the space systems market segment in fiscal 2005 with several successful space exploration missions and critical launches, including the Deep Impact Comet Encounter, launch of Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter and the continuation of the Discovery missions. The last Titan IV vehicle was successfully launched, using Aerojet’s liquid booster engines, completing a legacy of 100% mission success over the nearly 50 year history of the program. In addition, the first Atlas® V vehicle using three Aerojet solid rocket boosters was launched in fiscal 2005. In-space propulsion highlights included the qualification of an advanced form of electric propulsion called a Hall Thruster which is being used on the first series of Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) military satellites. These successes, coupled with NASA’s plans to embark on the development of new manned and unmanned missions, provide opportunities to grow our legacy of supplying mission critical propulsion systems to the DoD and NASA as we have since the inception of the U.S. space program. A subset of our key space systems programs is listed below: Program Primary Customer End Users Program Description Program Status A2100tm Commercial Geostationary Satellite Systems Lockheed Martin Various Electric and liquid spacecraft thrusters and propellant tanks Production Mercury MESSENGER Johns Hopkins Advanced Physics Lab (APL) NASA Liquid spacecraft propulsion system Successfully Launched Advanced Extremely High Frequency MilSatCom Lockheed Martin U.S. Air Force Electric and liquid spacecraft thrusters Production Atlas V Lockheed Martin U.S. Air Force, Commercial Solid “strap-on” booster motors for this medium-to-heavy lift launch vehicle Production Cassini Mission Lockheed Martin NASA Liquid spacecraft thrusters Orbiting Saturn Mars Rover Missions Lockheed Martin NASA JPL Liquid spacecraft thrusters Mission Complete — Rovers Remain Operational Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter Lockheed Martin NASA JPL Liquid spacecraft thrusters Successfully Launched Mars Lander Engine Jet Propulsion Laboratory NASA JPL Liquid spacecraft thrusters Development Delta II Boeing NASA, U.S. Air Force, Commercial Upper stage pressure-fed liquid rocket engines Production Titan IV Lockheed Martin U.S. Air Force First and second stage liquid rocket booster engines Final Titan IV launched in 2005 Upper Stage Engine Technology U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory NASA, U.S. Air Force Develop design tools for future upper stage liquid engines Development 7 Table of Contents Program Primary Customer End Users Program Description Program Status Orbital Star-2 Bus Orbital Sciences Corp Commercial Liquid spacecraft thrusters Production Time History of Events and Macroscale Interactions During Substorms (THEMIS) Swales Aerospace NASA Liquid spacecraft propulsion system Production Aerojet’s top five programs accounted for less than 36% of fiscal 2005 net sales. Contract Types Under each of its contracts, Aerojet acts either as a prime contractor, where it sells directly to the end user, or as a subcontractor, selling its products to other prime contractors. Research and development contracts are awarded during the inception stage of a program’s development. Production contracts provide for the production and delivery of mature products for operational use. Aerojet’s contracts can generally be categorized as either “cost-reimbursable” or “fixed-price.” During fiscal 2005, approximately 60% of Aerojet’s net sales were achieved on fixed-price contracts and 40% on cost-reimbursable contracts. Cost-reimbursable contracts are typically (i) cost plus fixed fee, (ii) cost plus incentive fee, or (iii) cost plus award fee contracts. For cost plus fixed fee contracts, Aerojet typically receives reimbursement of its costs, to the extent the costs are allowable under contractual provisions, in addition to receipt of a fixed fee. For cost plus incentive fee contracts and cost plus award fee contracts, Aerojet receives adjustments in the contract fee, within designated limits, based on its actual results as compared to contractual targets for factors such as cost, performance, quality, and schedule. Fixed-price contracts are typically (i) fixed-price, (ii) fixed-price-incentive, or (iii) fixed-price level of effort contracts. For fixed-price contracts, Aerojet performs work for a fixed price and realizes all of the profit or loss resulting from variations in costs of performance. For fixed-price-incentive contracts, Aerojet receives increased or decreased fees or profits based upon actual performance against established targets or other criteria. For fixed-price level of effort contracts, Aerojet generally receives a structured fixed price per labor hour, dependent upon the customer’s labor hour needs. All fixed-price contracts present the risk of unreimbursed cost overruns. Many programs under contract have product lifecycles exceeding 10 years, such as the Delta, Standard Missile, and Tomahawk programs. It is typical for U.S. government propulsion contracts to be relatively small ($2.5 million a year on average) during development phases that can last from two to five years, followed by low-rate and then full-rate production, where annual funding can grow as high as $30 million a year over many years. Backlog As of November 30, 2005, contract backlog was $696 million compared to $879 million as of November 30, 2004. The decrease in the contract backlog is primarily a result of the renegotiated Atlas V contract. Excluding the impact of Atlas, other program contract backlog grew by $69 million. Funded backlog, which includes only the amount for which money has been directly authorized by the U.S. Congress, or for which a purchase order has been received from a commercial customer, was $498 million as of November 30, 2005, compared to funded backlog of $538 million on November 30, 2004. Excluding the impact of Atlas, other program funded backlog grew by $27 million. Research and Development Aerojet views its research and development efforts as critical to maintain its leadership positions in markets in which it competes. We maintain an active research and development effort supported primarily by customer funding. Customer-funded research and development expenditures are funded under contract specifications, typically research and development contracts, several of which we believe will become key 8 Table of Contents programs in the future. Historically, over 90% of our research and development expenditures were customer funded. We believe customer-funded research and development activities are vital to our ability to compete for contracts and to enhance our technology base. Aerojet’s company-funded research and development efforts include expenditures for technical activities that are vital to the development of new products, services, processes or techniques, as well as those expenses for significant improvements to existing products or processes. The following table summarizes Aerojet’s research and development expenses during the past three fiscal years: Year Ended November 30, 2005 2004 2003 (In millions) Customer-funded $ 177 $ 132 $ 92 Company-funded 13 8 7 Total research and development expenditures $ 190 $ 140 $ 99 Aerojet’s strong portfolio of advanced propulsion technologies, across the solid and liquid propulsion spectrum, has enabled our steady growth in research and development. The ARC acquisition in October 2003 contributed $30 million in customer-funded research and development expenditures in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003. A ramp up of several motor development activities, including THAAD, PAC-3, and Standard Missile, contributed to increases in customer-funded research and development expenditures in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. Raw Materials, Suppliers and Seasonality Availability of raw materials and supplies to Aerojet is generally sufficient. Aerojet is sometimes dependent, for a variety of reasons, upon sole-source suppliers for procurement requirements but has experienced no significant difficulties in meeting production and delivery obligations because of delays in delivery or reliance on such suppliers. We closely monitor sources of supply to assure that adequate raw materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes are available. As a U.S. government contractor, we are frequently limited to procuring materials and components from sources of supply that can meet rigorous customer and/or government specifications. In addition, as business conditions, the DoD budget, and Congressional allocations change, suppliers of specialty chemicals and materials sometimes consider dropping low volume items from their product lines, which may require, as it has in the past, qualification of new suppliers for raw materials on key programs. These disruptions of key raw materials almost always impact the entire propulsion industry and are not just Aerojet specific. For example, the supply of ammonium perchlorate, a principal raw material used in solid propellant, is limited to a single source that supplies the entire domestic solid propellant industry. This single source, however, maintains two separate manufacturing lines a reasonable distance apart which mitigates the likelihood of a fire, explosion, or other problem impacting production. The industry also presently relies on one primary supplier for graphite fiber, which is used in the production of composite materials. This supplier has multiple manufacturing lines for the product. Although other sources of graphite fiber exist, the addition of a new supplier would require us to qualify the new source for use. We are also impacted, as is the rest of the industry, by increases in the prices and lead-times of raw materials used in production on fixed-price contracts. Most recently, we have seen an increase in the price and lead-times of commodity metals, primarily steel, titanium and aluminum. Aerojet monitors the price and supply of these materials and works closely with the suppliers to schedule purchases far enough in advance and in the most economical means possible to reduce program impact. 9 Table of Contents Aerojet’s business is not subject to predictable seasonality. Primary factors affecting the timing of Aerojet’s sales include the timing of government awards, the availability of U.S. government funding, contractual product delivery requirements and customer acceptances. Intellectual Property Where appropriate, Aerojet obtains patents in the U.S. and other countries covering various aspects of the design and manufacture of its products. We consider these patents to be important to Aerojet as they illustrate Aerojet’s innovative design ability and product development capabilities. We do not believe the loss or expiration of any single patent would have a material adverse effect on the business or financial results of Aerojet or on our business as a whole. Real Estate Through our Aerojet subsidiary, we own approximately 12,600 acres of land in the Sacramento metropolitan area (Sacramento Land). The property is located 15 miles northeast of downtown Sacramento, along U.S. Highway 50, a key growth corridor in the region. We believe our land offers a number of valuable competitive business advantages, including one of the largest single-owner land tracts suitable for development in the Sacramento region, a very low cost basis in our land, and what we believe a desirable “in-fill” location surrounded by developing residential and business properties. The Sacramento Land was acquired by Aerojet in the early 1950s for the manufacture and testing of propulsion products. Most of the Sacramento Land was never used for production or testing purposes, rather it was used to provide safe buffer zones for propulsion products. In order to optimize the value of our real estate assets, our plan is to continue to reposition excess Sacramento land holdings for higher and better uses. Currently, we have formal entitlement applications pending for the re-zoning of approximately 5,800 acres of the Sacramento Land. In 2005, we initiated discussions for the re-zoning and annexation process for an approximate 625 acres in the City of Folsom Sphere of Influence. This land has been identified by the local authorities for future annexation into the City of Folsom and is expected to be a mix of uses including residential and commercial. Our efforts regarding entitlement re-zoning changes and annexation for this approximately 6,400 acres are expected to increase the value of this land over it current value. In conjunction with our entitlements efforts, we will continue to explore real estate structures (or transactions) that may enhance the value of our real estate assets, including outright sales, and/or joint ventures with real estate developers, residential builders or other third parties. We recently announced our exploration of a possible real estate transaction with one or more substantial residential builders. The focus of the exploratory discussions at this time concerns a possible joint venture relating to our Rio Del Oro project. The Sacramento Land is comprised of the following: Environmentally Environmentally Unrestricted Restricted(1) Total Land Currently Undergoing Entitlement and Re-zoning 3,010 3,435 6,445 Land Available for Future Entitlements(2) 1,003 — 1,003 Aerojet Operations Land 24 5,108 5,132 Total Sacramento Land 4,037 8,543 12,580 (1) Land is subject to federal and/or state environmental restrictions (see Note 14(c) in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). (2) Land is currently zoned Special Planning Area Land Currently Undergoing Entitlement and Re-zoning Easton is the brand name that identifies the approximate 6,400 acres of Sacramento Land for which we are currently seeking entitlement. We expect Easton to become the region’s premier master-planned 10 Table of Contents community which will include a broad range of housing as well as office, industrial, retail, and recreational uses. The table below summarizes acreage for the various projects within Easton, and our best current estimates of when we believe approvals and/or entitlements may be achieved: Expected Environmentally Environmentally Project Approvals/Entitlement Unrestricted Restricted Total Rio Del Oro Late 2006 — 2,716 2,716 Glenborough and Easton Place Late 2007 1,055 330 1,385 Westborough 2008 1,377 277 1,654 Folsom Sphere of Influence Beyond 2008 522 103 625 Office Park/ Auto Mall Auto Mall Early 2006 56 9 65 Easton Total 3,010 3,435 6,445 The environmentally restricted acreage described above is subject to environmental restrictions imposed by state and/or federal regulatory agencies because of Aerojet’s historical propulsion activities, even though most of the land was never used for propulsion, production, and testing. We intend to retain such land until release of these restrictions. We are actively working with the various regulatory agencies that control the environmental restrictions to have them removed as early as practicable. Following is a discussion of the various projects within Easton and a description of the environmental restrictions on each of the projects: Rio Del Oro — In 2002, we filed an application with the County of Sacramento (County) for a general plan amendment and request for re-zoning of an approximate 2,700 acre project called Rio Del Oro. In 2003, this application was transferred to the newly incorporated City of Rancho Cordova (Rancho Cordova). Our application was submitted in conjunction with an application by a regional homebuilder for the property the homebuilder owns west and adjacent to the Rio del Oro land. In 2001, we granted this regional homebuilder the right to purchase 400 acres of our Rio Del Oro property, for which the purchase price is fixed at $10 million. The homebuilder is obligated to pay costs associated with the entitlements for our portion of Rio Del Oro as well as its other land. The Draft Rio Del Oro Specific Plan, dated September 7, 2005 (Plan) includes our 2,700 acres and the homebuilder’s 1,100 acres. The plan calls for 22 different proposed land uses with estimated land areas for each use. The Plan combines these uses into four categories with estimated land acreage for each category as follows: Land Use(1) Total Residential 1,920 Village Services & Employment 521 Education 152 Open Space & Public 1,236 Rio Del Oro Total 3,829 (1) There are no assurances that Rancho Cordova will approve any plan and if it approves a plan that the plan will conform to the uses and areas describe above. The Plan does not separate our portion of the Plan from the homebuilder’s portion. Our estimate for our 2,700 acres is as follows: Residential 1,484 acres; Village Services & Employment, 184 acres; Education, 65 acres; and Open Space & Public, 983 acres. Rio Del Oro is subject to certain state environmental restrictions which we are working with state regulators to remove. We believe the first portions of the Rio Del Oro land should have environmental restrictions lifted within the same approximate time frame that Rancho Cordova approves our application for re-zoning. The project also has extensive wetland conservation areas and preserved habitat for certain species 11 Table of Contents on the Federal Endangered Species List. We are working on a conservation plan that will be a part of the approval of the land use application by Ranch Cordova. In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), government and regulatory authorities are required to determine what, if any, impacts a project will have on the environment. Typically the preparation of an Environment Impact Report (EIR) is required, which Rancho Cordova is in the process completing as part of the entitlement process. In addition, in the case of Rio Del Oro, federal agencies, including the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps), must prepare an environmental impact study (EIS) in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Rancho Cordova staff and the applicants have been working to complete the EIR/ EIS since mid-2005. Delays in receiving information from the Corps and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) have postponed the release of the EIR/ EIS for public comment. Currently, Rancho Cordova expects the release by March 2006, approximately 6 months later than originally planned. Rancho Cordova’s approval of our land use application is not expected before late 2006. Glenborough and Easton Place — In 2004, we announced plans for an approximate 1,400 acre master planned community called Glenborough and Easton Place and filed applications with the County for a general plan amendment and changes in zoning. Easton Place will take full advantage of its location on the Highway 50 corridor, the new light rail station within Easton Place and the existing Aerojet employment base. The Glenborough and Easton Place projects have been well received by the County. The general categories of land use and their currently estimated acreage are as follows: Land Use(1) Total Residential 542 Commercial, Mixed-Use & Office 213 Urban Transit & Mixed-Use Core 95 Open Space & Parkways 455 Schools 20 Community Resources & Roads 75 Glenborough & Easton Place Total 1,400 (1) There are no assurances that the County will approve any plan and if it approves a plan that the plan will conform to the uses and areas describe above. Approximately 330 acres in Glenborough are subject to federal environmental restrictions, which must be lifted before those acres can be developed or sold. We have submitted proposals to the appropriate agencies regarding remedial activities necessary to have the restrictions lifted. We believe these restrictions will not delay the County’s approval for our application. Significant areas will remain subject to environmental restrictions for a period of time after receipt of County approval of our entitlements application. However, we do not expect any delays in the overall project schedule because the sale of those portions of the project is not expected to begin for several years. The County began preparation of the EIR for Glenborough and Easton Place in June 2005. The initial draft of the EIR is expected to be completed in the second half of 2006. This project has a considerable habitat for the Valley Elderberry Long-horned Beetle (VELB), a protected species on the Federal Endangered Species List. We are working with USFWS to develop a comprehensive mitigation plan that will provide suitable mitigation for the impact caused by the project. This mitigation plan will be part of the approval of the land use application by the County. We expect the County’s approval of this project to be granted in late 2007. Westborough — In 2004, we filed an application with Rancho Cordova for a general plan amendment for an approximate 1,650 acre project named Westborough. The Westborough application will be completed in two phases. In June 2005, we submitted an updated general plan amendment and a re-zoning application for approximately 1,100 acres as the initial phase of Westborough. Of the approximate 550 acres in the second phase of Westborough, a portion of the land is within the City of Rancho Cordova and a portion is in the County. Consequently, over the next few years, we will be working with the County and City to reach 12 Table of Contents agreement on the terms and conditions for annexation of the County land into Rancho Cordova. Once an agreement is achieved, we will file an application for the second phase. In 2005, we worked with Rancho Cordova to complete the information necessary to commence the EIR for the initial phase of Westborough. Rancho Cordova expects to start the EIR within the next few months. Since the EIR takes at least one year to prepare, we do not expect that Rancho Cordova will complete a first draft of the EIR for review until mid-2007. In 2004, we contracted with a regional homebuilder to sell 100 acres of Westborough, for which the purchase price is fixed at $3.1 million. As partial consideration for this purchase agreement, the regional homebuilder also agreed to remove a restriction on residential development of Westborough extending through 2009 that had been granted to such developer pursuant to a 2001 transaction. Approximately 280 acres of the second phase is subject to federal environmental clean-up restrictions which we do not expect to be removed for several years. We do not anticipate delays in our overall project schedule because those portions of the project are part of phase two that will not be entitled for several years. This project also has extensive habitat for the VELB. We are working with USFWS to develop a comprehensive mitigation plan that will provide suitable mitigation for the impact caused by the project. This mitigation plan will be part of the approval of the land use application by Rancho Cordova. We anticipate Rancho Cordova’s approval of the initial phase of this project during 2008. Folsom Sphere of Influence — Approximately 625 acres of the Sacramento Land is within a larger area designated as the City of Folsom Sphere of Influence (SOI). Aerojet, in cooperation with the other landowners in the SOI, is working with Folsom to satisfy the conditions of annexation of the entire SOI, including our 625 acres, to Folsom. The proposed land uses for the 625 acres include residential, office, and retail. The annexation process is expected to be lengthy and it is too early to estimate a completion date for the annexation. Office Park and Auto Mall — In March 2003, we entered into a joint venture with Panattoni Development Company to develop an office park. An office park is consistent with the existing zoning for the property. We are working with the County and the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers to obtain the necessary approvals. In 2004, we submitted an application to the County for a conditional use permit to allow the sale of new cars on approximately 30-acres of the Sacramento Land. The application has been approved by the County Planning Commission; however, opposition to the proposal has recently surfaced. The final County Board of Supervisor action on the application is expected in the first quarter 2006. We sold approximately 20 acres to two automobile dealers in fiscal 2003. The sales completed in 2003 will not be impacted if the conditional use permit is not approved. Land Available for Future Entitlements We believe it will be several years before any of the 1,003 acres of available land available will be processed for a change in entitlements. Some of this land is outside the current Urban Services Boundary established by the County and all of it is far from existing infrastructure, making it uneconomical to attempt to develop it at this time. Aerojet Operations Land We believe that the land currently available for the ongoing Aerojet operations is more than adequate for its long-term needs. As a result, additional land may become available for re-zoning in the future. Sacramento Real Estate Market During the second half of 2005 the rate of new home sales for the Sacramento region has slowed from historically high levels, which has resulted in homebuilders approaching inventory as they did in less exuberant market periods. We expect that this healthy marketplace adjustment will slow the rate of home price and entitled land appreciation. However, we believe a return to more normal market absorption rates and appreciation in land and home prices does not change the long-term prospects for the Sacramento region, 13 Table of Contents which still remains an attractive and affordable alternative to the San Francisco Bay area and other large metropolitan areas of California. The Sacramento Land is positioned in one of the strongest growth corridors of the region, and it commands a unique location advantage. We believe the compelling Sacramento area demographic and real estate fundamentals support our objective of creating value by re-zoning a substantial portion of the Sacramento Land. Water Supply In California, all applications for a change in land use must include a source of water to serve the proposed project. We addressed this critical issue with our 2003 water settlement agreement with the County. Pursuant to that agreement, Aerojet transferred all of the remediated groundwater to the County. Subject to conditions and limitations in the agreement, including all required approvals under CEQA, the County assumed the responsibility for providing replacement water to those water purveyors who have lost wells as a result of groundwater contamination. If the amount of Aerojet’s transferred remediated groundwater is in excess of the replacement water actually provided to the impacted water purveyors, the County has committed to make such excess water available to Aerojet to satisfy the requirements for the Easton project. Other Aerojet owns approximately 400 acres of land in Chino Hills, California. This property was used for the manufacture and testing of ordnance. With the sale of its ordnance business in the mid-1990’s, Aerojet closed this facility and commenced clean-up of the site. At this time, Aerojet continues to work with state regulators and the City of Chino Hills to complete those efforts. Once the remediation is complete and based on the certification of use from the State, Aerojet will work with the City of Chino Hills to maximize the value of the site. In addition to the projects described above, we currently lease to third parties approximately 330,000 square feet of office space and 10 acres of land. These leasing activities generated $7 million in revenue in fiscal 2005. Although we are actively working with various governmental and regulatory agencies to obtain the necessary entitlements and to lift environmental restrictions, we may not be able to obtain these required approvals in the time periods described in the prior paragraphs, or at all. For a discussions of the risks related to our real estate activities, please see Item 1A, Risk Factors. Environmental Matters Our current and legacy business operations are subject to, and affected by, federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations relating to the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal, investigation and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes. Our policy is to conduct our business with due regard for the preservation and protection of the environment. We continually assess compliance with these regulations and management of environmental matters. We believe our operations are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. Operation and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance and management of contaminated sites are a normal, recurring part of our operations. These costs are not significant relative to total operating costs and most such costs are incurred by our Aerospace and Defense segment and are generally allowable costs under contracts with the U.S. government. Under existing U.S. environmental laws a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) is jointly and severally liable, and therefore we are potentially liable to the government or third parties for the full cost of remediating the contamination at our facilities or former facilities or at third-party sites where we have been designated as a PRP by the Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency. The nature of environmental investigation and cleanup activities often makes it difficult to determine the timing and amount of any estimated future costs that may be required for remediation measures. However, we review these matters and accrue for costs associated with environmental remediation when it becomes probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability, usually based on proportionate sharing, can be reasonably estimated. 14 Table of Contents These liabilities have not been discounted to their present value as the timing of cash payments is not fixed or reliably determinable. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Part II, Item 7 of this Report for additional information. Employees As of November 30, 2005, 17% of our 3,101 employees were covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements all of which are due to expire within two years. We believe that our relations with employees are good. Executive Officers of the Registrant See Part III, Item 10 of this Report for information about Executive Officers of the Company. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements set forth at the beginning of Item 1 of this Report. The cancellation or material modification of one or more significant contracts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to realize anticipated sales. Sales, directly and indirectly, to the U.S. government and its agencies accounted for approximately 80% of our total net sales in fiscal 2005. Our contracts typically permit the U.S. government to unilaterally modify or terminate a contract or to discontinue funding for a particular program at any time. The cancellation of one or more significant contracts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to realize anticipated sales and profits. The cancellation of a contract, if terminated for cause, could also subject us to liability for the excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. If terminated for convenience, our recovery of costs would be limited to amounts already incurred or committed, and our profit would be limited to work completed prior to termination. Future reductions or changes in U.S. government spending could negatively affect our sales. Our primary aerospace and defense customers include the DoD and its agencies, the government prime contractors that supply products to these customers, and NASA. As a result, we rely on particular levels of U.S. government spending on propulsion systems for defense and space applications and armament systems for precision tactical weapon systems and munitions applications, and our backlog depends, in a large part, on continued funding by the U.S. government for the programs in which we are involved. These spending levels are not generally correlated with any specific economic cycle, but rather follow the cycle of general political support for this type of spending. Although the DoD currently forecasts continued defense budget increases through its fiscal year 2010, which is the remainder of the DoD’s detailed forecast period, future levels of defense spending may not increase and could decrease. Moreover, although our contracts often contemplate that our services will be performed over a period of several years, Congress usually must approve funds for a given program each government fiscal year and may significantly reduce or eliminate funding for a program. A decrease in U.S. military expenditures, or the elimination or curtailment of a material program in which we are involved, could negatively affect our revenues. A significant percentage of our net sales are generated from fixed-price contracts. If we experience cost overruns on these contracts, we would have to absorb the excess costs and our profitability would be adversely affected. Our aerospace and defense contracts generally can be categorized as either “fixed-price” or “cost-reimbursable” contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform specified work for a fixed price and realize all of the profit or loss resulting from variations in the costs of performing the contract. As a result, all fixed-price contracts involve the inherent risk of unreimbursed cost overruns. To the extent we were to incur unanticipated cost overruns on a program or platform subject to a fixed-price contract, our profitability would be adversely affected. For example, our Atlas V contract, which was recently renegotiated, was a fixed-price contract that was historically unprofitable, in part, due to cost overruns. We are also transitioning a fixed-price fire suppression system for the Ford Crown Victoria police vehicle from development to full rate production. Future profitability is subject to risks including the ability of suppliers to deliver components of acceptable quality on schedule and the successful implementation of automated tooling in production processes. During fiscal 2005, approximately 60% of Aerojet’s net sales were achieved on fixed-price contracts and 40% on cost reimbursable contracts. 16 Table of Contents Our success and growth in the aerospace and defense industry depend on our ability to secure contracts. We face significant competition, including from competitors with greater resources than ours, which may adversely affect our market share. We encounter intense competition in bidding for contracts. Many of our competitors have financial, technical, production, and other resources substantially greater than ours. Although the downsizing of the defense industry in the early 1990s has resulted in a reduction in the aggregate number of competitors, the consolidation has also strengthened the capabilities of some of the remaining competitors resulting in an increasingly competitive environment. The U.S. government also has its own manufacturing capabilities in some areas. We may be unable to compete successfully with our competitors and our inability to do so could result in a decrease in revenues that we historically have generated from these contracts. Further, the U.S. government may open to competition programs on which we are currently the sole supplier, which could also adversely affect our sales. Our Aerospace and Defense segment is subject to procurement and other related laws and regulations inherent in contracting with the U.S. government, non-compliance with which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the performance of contracts with the U.S. government, we are subject to complex and extensive procurement and other related laws and regulations. Possible consequences of a failure to comply, even inadvertently, with these laws and regulations include civil and criminal fines and penalties, in some cases, double or triple damages, and suspension or debarment from future government contracts and exporting of goods for a specified period of time. These laws and regulations provide for ongoing audits and reviews of incurred costs as well as contract procurement, performance and administration. The U.S. government may, if appropriate, conduct an investigation into possible illegal or unethical activity in connection with these contracts. Investigations of this nature are common in the aerospace and defense industry, and lawsuits may result. In addition, the U.S. government and its principal prime contractors periodically investigate the financial viability of its contractors and subcontractors as part of its risk assessment process associated with the award of new contracts. If the U.S. government or one or more prime contractors were to determine that we were not financially viable, our ability to continue to act as a government contractor or subcontractor would be impaired. Our inability to adapt to rapid technological changes could impair our ability to remain competitive. The aerospace and defense industry has undergone rapid and significant technological development over the last few years. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we are able to, allowing them to provide more effective products at more competitive prices. Future technological developments could: • adversely impact our competitive position if we are unable to react to these developments in a timely or efficient manner; • require us to write-down obsolete facilities, equipment and technology; • require us to discontinue production of obsolete products before we can recover any or all of our related research, development and commercialization expenses; or • require significant capital expenditures for research, development and launch of new products or processes. We may experience product failures, schedule delays or other problems with existing or new products and systems, all of which could result in increased costs and loss of sales. Many of the products we develop and manufacture are technologically advanced systems that must function under demanding operating conditions. Even though we believe that we employ sophisticated and 17 Table of Contents rigorous design, manufacturing and testing processes and practices, we may not be able to successfully launch or manufacture our products on schedule or our products may not perform as intended. Some of our contracts require us to forfeit a portion of our expected profit, receive reduced payments, provide a replacement product or service or reduce the price of subsequent sales to the same customer if our products fail to perform adequately. Performance penalties also may be imposed should we fail to meet delivery schedules or other measures of contract performance. We do not generally insure against potential costs resulting from any required remedial actions or costs or loss of sales due to postponement or cancellation of scheduled operations or product deliveries. Future reductions in airbag propellant volume could adversely affect our profitability. One of our plants produces large volumes of propellants used in automobile airbags sold to a single customer. These products are subject to extreme cost competition from other potential domestic and foreign suppliers. The loss of significant volume could affect fixed cost absorption in the plant and negatively impact profitability on other products. Our operations and properties are currently the subject of significant environmental claims, and the numerous environmental and other government regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent in the future and may reduce our profitability. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations that, among other things, require us to obtain permits to operate and install pollution control equipment and regulate the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes. We may also be subject to fines and penalties relating to the operation of our existing and formerly owned businesses, and are subject to toxic tort and asbestos suits as well as other third-party lawsuits, due to either our past or present use of hazardous substances or the alleged on-site or off-site contamination of the environment through past or present operations. We may incur material costs in defending these proceedings or claims. Any unexpected adverse judgment or cash outlay could reduce our profitability and leave us with less cash available to service our debt. For additional discussion of environmental and legal matters, please see the environmental discussion in Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Although some of our environmental costs may be recoverable and we have established reserves, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may not be sufficient. Under an agreement with the U.S. government, the U.S. government recognizes as allowable for government contract cost purposes up to 88% of environmental expenses at our Sacramento and former Azusa sites. Aerojet’s mix of contracts can affect the actual reimbursement made by the U.S. government. Because these costs are recovered through forward pricing arrangements, our ability to continue recovering these costs from the U.S. government depends on Aerojet’s sustained business volume under U.S. government contracts and programs and the relative size of Aerojet’s commercial business. As of November 30, 2005, we had established reserves of $268 million, which we believe to be sufficient to cover our estimated share of the environmental remediation costs at that time. However, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. We continually evaluate the adequacy of those reserves, and they could change. In addition, the reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination at those sites. It is possible that additional remediation sites will be identified in the future or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites will be discovered. This could lead us to have additional expenditures for environmental remediation in the future and given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. 18 Table of Contents For additional discussion of environmental matters, please see the environmental discussion in Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements. The release or explosion of dangerous materials used in our business could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur additional costs and liability. The operations of our business involve the handling and production of potentially explosive materials and other dangerous chemicals, including materials used in rocket propulsion and explosive devices. Despite our use of specialized facilities to handle dangerous materials and intensive employee training programs, the handling and production of hazardous materials could result in incidents that temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt our manufacturing operations and could cause production delays. It is possible that a release of these chemicals or an explosion could result in death or significant injuries to employees and others. Material property damage to us and third parties could also occur. The use of these products in applications by our customers could also result in liability if an explosion or fire were to occur. Any release or explosion could expose us to adverse publicity or liability for damages or cause production delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and profitability. Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials and difficulties in the supplier qualification process, as well as increases in prices of raw materials, could adversely impact our operations. We closely monitor sources of supply to assure that adequate raw materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes are available. As a U.S. government contractor, we are frequently limited to procuring materials and components from sources of supply that meet rigorous customer and/or government specifications. In addition, as business conditions, DoD budgets, and Congressional allocations change, suppliers of specialty chemicals and materials sometimes consider dropping low-volume items from their product lines, which may require us to qualify new suppliers for raw materials on key programs. Current suppliers of some insulation materials used in rocket motors have announced plans to close manufacturing plants and discontinue certain product lines. These materials, which include a neoprene compound and silica phenolic used as an insulator, are used industry-wide in the production of rocket motors and, therefore, are key to many of our solid booster/ motor programs. We have qualified new suppliers and materials for this insulation and we expect that such new materials can be available in time to meet our future production needs. Another supplier has announced it will stop production of a primary binder compound (R45) used industry-wide in all solid propellants. The U.S. Government and companies operating in the propulsion industry worked together to resolve the availability issue of the R45 primary binder material. In our case, Aerojet entered into a new supply contract which includes a “surcharge” as a price adjustment. We were able accomplish this with the assistance of our customers through similar price adjustment clauses on many of our existing contracts. The supply of ammonium perchlorate, a principal raw material used in solid propellant, is limited to a single source that supplies the entire domestic solid propellant industry. This single source, however, maintains two separate manufacturing lines a reasonable distance apart which mitigates the likelihood of a fire, explosion, or other problem impacting production. The industry also currently relies on one primary supplier for graphite fiber, which is used in the production of composite materials. This supplier has multiple manufacturing lines for such material. Although other sources of graphite fiber exist, the addition of a new supplier would require us to qualify the new source for use. As of year end 2005, neither of these key materials has had any indication that their availability is in jeopardy. We are also impacted, as is the rest of the industry, by increases in the prices and lead-times of raw materials used in production on various fixed-price contracts. Most recently, we have seen an increase in the price and lead-times of commodity metals, primarily steel, titanium and aluminum. Aerojet monitors the price and supply of these materials and works closely with suppliers to schedule purchases far enough in advance and in the most economical means possible to reduce program impact. Additionally, we have negotiated 19 Table of Contents economic and/or price adjustment clauses tied to commodity indices, whenever possible with our customers. Our past success in negotiating these terms is no indication of our ability to continue to do so. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw materials, difficulty qualifying new sources of supply, implementing use of replacement materials or new sources of supply, and/or a continuing increase in the prices of raw materials could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and/or our cash flows. Substantially all of our real estate is located in Sacramento County, California making us vulnerable to changes in economic and other conditions in that particular market. As a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, our long-term performance and the value of our properties will depend upon conditions in the Sacramento region, including: • the sustainability and growth of industries located in the Sacramento region; • the financial strength and spending of the State of California; • local real estate market conditions; • changes in neighborhood characteristics; and • real estate tax rates. There can be no assurance that the Sacramento market will continue to grow or that conditions will remain favorable. If unfavorable economic or other conditions occur in the region, our business plan could be adversely affected. We have limited experience in real estate activities. While we have owned our Sacramento real estate for over 50 years, we have no significant real estate business experience. Therefore, we do not have any real estate history from which you can draw conclusions about our ability to execute our real estate business plans. The real estate business is inherently risky. Our real estate activities may subject us to the following risks: • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary re-zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects; • we may be unable to complete environmental remediation or to lift state and federal environmental restrictions on our real estate, which could cause a delay or abandonment of these projects; • we may be unable to obtain sufficient water sources to service our projects, which may prevent us from executing our plan; • our real estate activities require significant capital expenditures and we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our plan; • economic and political uncertainties could have adverse effects on consumer buying habits, construction costs, availability of labor and materials and other factors affecting us and the real estate industry in general; • our property is subject to federal, state and local regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations on our plans. Much of our property is raw land located in areas where the natural habitats of various endangered or protected wildlife species; and • if our land use plans are approved by the appropriate governmental authorities, we may face potential lawsuits from those who oppose such plans. Such lawsuits and the costs associated with such opposition 20 Table of Contents could be material and have an adverse effect on our ability to sell properties or realize income from our projects. Additionally, the time frame required for approval of our plans means that we may have to wait years for a significant cash return. The value of our real estate assets could be adversely affected by an increase in interest rates. For the past three years, interest rates in the U.S. have been at historically low levels, which has facilitated the financing and purchase of homes. Historical evidence has shown that significant increases in interest rates have a negative impact on housing demand. Since June 30, 2004, the federal funds rate has increased from 1% to 4.25%. If interest rates continue to increase, and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases is diminished, the value of our real estate assets may decrease. We have a substantial amount of debt, and the cost of servicing that debt could adversely affect our ability to take actions or our liquidity or financial condition. We have a substantial amount of debt for which we are required to make interest and principal payments. As of November 30, 2005, we had $444 million of debt. Subject to the limits contained in some of the agreements governing our outstanding debt, we may incur additional debt in the future. Our level of debt places significant demands on our cash resources, which could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our outstanding debt obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash for payments on our debt, reducing the amount of our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, entitle our real estate assets, and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we compete; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources than we do; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; or • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and fund our operating costs, our liquidity may be adversely affected. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants in our debt that could restrict our operating activities, and the failure to comply could result in defaults that accelerate the payment of our debt. Our outstanding debt generally contains various restrictive covenants. These covenants include, among others, provisions restricting our ability to: • incur additional debt; • make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments; • limit the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create certain liens; • sell assets and if sold, use of proceeds; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. 21 Table of Contents Our secured debt also contains other customary covenants, including, among others, provisions: • relating to the maintenance of the property securing the debt, and • restricting our ability to pledge assets or create other liens. In addition, certain covenants in our bank facilities require us and our subsidiaries to maintain certain financial ratios. Any of the covenants described in this risk factor may restrict our operations and our ability to pursue potentially advantageous business opportunities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could also result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. If our operating subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flow or if they are not able to pay dividends or otherwise distribute their cash to us, or if we have insufficient funds on hand, we may not be able to service our debt. All of the operations of our Aerospace and Defense and Real Estate businesses are conducted through subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to service our debt obligations will be largely dependent upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us, or upon loans, advances or other payments made by these subsidiaries to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will depend upon their operating results and will be subject to applicable laws and any contractual restrictions contained in the agreements governing their debt, if any. We may expand our operations through acquisitions, which may divert management’s attention and expose us to unanticipated liabilities and costs. We may experience difficulties integrating any acquired operations, and we may incur costs relating to acquisitions that are never consummated. Our business strategy may include continued expansion of our Aerospace and Defense operations through future acquisitions that make both strategic and economic sense. However, our ability to consummate and integrate effectively any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, integrate general and administrative services and key information processing systems and, where necessary, requalify our customer programs. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities. We may also incur costs and divert management attention to acquisitions that are never consummated. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated. It is also possible that expected synergies from future acquisitions may not materialize. Although we undertake a diligence investigation of each business that we acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through indemnities and warranties from the seller, which may in some instances be supported by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. We have recently focused our operations through divestitures. We may incur additional costs related to these divestitures, which may negatively impact our profitability. In connection with our recent divestitures of the Fine Chemicals and GDX businesses, we may incur additional costs, including costs related to the closure of a manufacturing facility in Chartres, France. This closure in France requires us to comply with certain procedures and processes that are defined under local law and labor regulations. These procedures may require additional cash expenditures, thereby reducing our profitability and our liquidity. 22 Table of Contents A strike or other work stoppage, or our inability to renew collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our cost structure and ability to run our facilities and produce our products. As of November 30, 2005, 17% of our 3,101 employees were covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements all of which are due to expire within two years. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements with the unions representing our employees upon expiration of the existing contracts, we could experience strikes or work stoppages. Even if we are successful in negotiating new agreements, the new agreements could call for higher wages or benefits paid to union members, which would increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our profitability. If our unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or other non-unionized operations were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of operations at our facilities or higher ongoing labor costs. A strike or other work stoppage in the facilities of any of our major customers could also have similar effects on us. A loss of key personnel or highly skilled employees could disrupt our operations. Our executive officers are critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain these officers and other capable management personnel. In general, we do not enter into employment agreements with our executive officers. We have entered into severance agreements with our executive officers that allow those officers to terminate their employment under particular circumstances, such as a change of control affecting us. Although we believe that we will be able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, our inability to do so could disrupt the operations of the segment affected or our overall operations. In addition, because of the complex nature of many of our products and programs, we are generally dependent on an educated and highly-skilled engineering staff and workforce. Our operations could be disrupted by a shortage of available skilled employees. Due to the nature of our business, our sales levels may fluctuate causing our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter could result in volatility in our common stock price. Our quarterly and annual sales are affected by a variety of factors that could lead to significant variability in our operating results: • In our Aerospace and Defense business, sales earned under long-term contracts are recognized either on a cost basis, when deliveries are made, or when contractually defined performance milestones are achieved. The timing of deliveries or milestones may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. • In our Real Estate business, sales of property will be made from time to time, which will result in variability in our operating results. If we are unable to effectively and efficiently implement the necessary initiatives to eliminate the material weakness identified in our internal controls and procedures, there could be an adverse effect on our operations or financial results. We identified a material weakness in the Information and Communication component of internal control due to: (i) insufficient processes and controls to identify, capture and accurately communicate information in sufficient detail concerning complex, non-routine transactions in a timely manner to appropriate members of our finance and accounting organization that possess the necessary skills, knowledge and authority to determine that such transactions are properly accounted for in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and (ii) the lack of specificity in the existing processes regarding the degree and extent of procedures that should be performed by key finance and accounting personnel in their review of accounting for complex, non-routine transactions to determine that the objective of the review has been achieved. As a result of this material weakness, errors occurred in several significant accounts in fiscal 2005 interim consolidated financial statements that were not detected. The areas most affected by this deficiency include revenue recognition and foreign currency translation. This material weakness impacts our ability to properly 23 Table of Contents account for complex, non-routine transactions in the financial statements. Due to this material weakness, management believes that as of November 30, 2005, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission criteria. We have and continue to implement various initiatives in fiscal 2006 to improve our internal controls over financial reporting and address the matters discussed in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. The implementation of the initiatives and the consideration of additional necessary improvements are among our highest priorities. The Board of Directors, under the direction of the Audit Committee, will continually assess the progress of the initiatives and the improvements, and take further actions as deemed necessary. Until the identified material weakness is eliminated, there is a risk of an adverse effect on our operations or financial results. Investment returns on pension plan assets and the discount rate used to determine pension liabilities may have a material affect on our shareholders’ deficit. In the event pension liabilities (based on the accumulated benefit obligation) exceed pension assets on the annual measurement date as a result of the investment returns on such assets and/or the discount rate used to measure pension liabilities, we would record a material charge which will cause an increase to our shareholders’ deficit. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 