Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are risks with respect to our Company. Readers should review these risks, together with the other information contained in this report. The risks and uncertainties we have described in this report are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, that may become material and also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial conditions or results of operations could be material and adversely affected. See “Forward Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report for additional risks. We are dependent upon the services of our chief executive officer and other executive officers. We are dependent upon a limited number of personnel, including Frank A. Lodzinski, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and certain other management personnel and key employees. Failure to retain the services of these persons, or to replace them with adequate personnel in the event of their departure or termination, may have a material adverse effect on our operations and adversely affect the price of our common stock. There are no employment agreements with any of our officers currently exist, although we may consider such agreements in the future. We have no key-man life insurance on the lives of any of our executive officers. We must successfully acquire or develop additional reserves of oil and gas. Our future replacement of production of oil and gas is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. The rate of production from our oil and gas properties generally decreases as reserves are produced. We may not be able to successfully acquire or develop additional oil and gas properties to cost effectively replace our reserves. Intense competition in the oil and gas exploration and production segment could adversely affect our ability to acquire desirable properties prospective for oil and gas, as well as producing oil and gas properties. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. We compete with major integrated and independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of desirable oil and gas properties and leases, for the equipment and services required to develop and operate properties, and in the marketing of oil and gas to end-users. Many competitors have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than ours. These competitive factors could make future acquisitions of acreage and producing properties at economic prices difficult for us. We also face significant competition in attracting and retaining experienced, capable and technical personnel, including geologists, geophysicists, engineers, landmen and others with experience in the oil and gas industry. The domestic oil and gas exploration and production industry is faced with shortages of personnel and equipment, and such shortages may adversely affect our operations and financial results. The oil and gas industry, as a whole, suffers from an aging workforce and a shortage of qualified and experienced personnel. Our operations and financial results may be adversely impacted due to difficulties in attracting and retaining such personnel within our Company or within companies that provide materials and services to the industry. The substantial increase in oil prices in 2010 and 2011 has resulted in increased drilling and construction activity in the industry and shortages of personnel and equipment are present in our primary focus areas. Presently, personnel shortages and high labor costs are particularly prevalent in areas of high industry activity such as the Williston Basin of Montana and North Dakota, and the Eagle Ford trend of Texas. Additional personnel will likely be required in connection with our expansion plans, and the domestic oil and gas industry has in the past experienced significant shortages of qualified personnel in all areas of operations. Further, our expansion plans will likely require access to services and oil field equipment. Such equipment and operating personnel are currently in short supply. The tightness in the availability of drilling rigs and field services in the Bakken Shale trend in North Dakota and Montana and the Eagle Ford trend in Texas could adversely affect our ability to execute our development plans within our budget on a timely basis. Since 2009, we have experienced tightness in the availability of drilling rigs, services for pressure pumping and other services required for well completion in the Bakken trend in North Dakota and Montana and the Eagle Ford trend in Texas. During 2011 we experienced substantial delays between drilling and completion of many of our Page 15 Table of Contents operated and non-operated wells in the Williston Basin. In the latter half of 2011, timing between drilling and well completion improved, but continued increases in drilling activity could lengthen delays. Increased delays could adversely affect production and reserve replacement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The lack of availability of these types of services has caused delays in our development and production operations and caused us to incur additional expenditures above what we had budgeted for those services. We cannot determine the magnitude or length of the tightness for these services, but should they persist or increase the cost or lack of availability of these services they could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows and their timing, financial condition and results of operations. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on the results of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous significant risks some of which are beyond our control; including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in large part on our proper evaluation and assessment of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data, and engineering studies. Our evaluations and assessments could ultimately prove to be incorrect. Significant aspects of costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can render a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including: • Shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel such as we are currently experiencing; • Pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • Equipment failures or accidents; • Adverse weather conditions, such as those experienced during the first half of 2011; • Reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • Issues associated with property titles; and • Delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements. Volatile oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our most significant market risk is the price of crude oil and natural gas. Management expects energy prices to remain volatile and unpredictable. Moreover, oil and natural gas prices result from numerous factors that are outside of our control, including: • Economic and energy infrastructure disruptions caused by geopolitical factors including but not limited to embargoes and sanctions on major producing countries and actual or threatened acts of war, or terrorist activities particularly with respect to oil producers in the Middle East, Nigeria and Venezuela; • Weather conditions, such as hurricanes, including energy infrastructure disruptions resulting from those conditions; • Changes in the global oil supply, demand and inventories; • Changes in domestic natural gas supply, demand and inventories; • The price and quantity of foreign imports of oil; • Political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing countries; • General economic conditions in the United Stated and worldwide; • The level of worldwide oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • Technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • The price and availability of alternative fuels. Page 16 Table of Contents Lower oil and natural gas prices not only decrease revenues on a per unit of production basis, but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce negatively impacting estimates of our economically recoverable proved reserves. We have attempted to mitigate the risks associated with commodity price fluctuations by hedging a portion of our production. However, substantial or extended declines in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to finance operations and planned capital expenditures. Industry changes may adversely affect various financial measurements relating to our business and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Although we believe that our business strategy has and will allow us to continue our growth and increase operating efficiencies, unforeseen costs and industry changes could potentially have an adverse effect on return of capital and earnings per share. Future events and conditions could cause any such changes to be significant, including, among other things, adverse changes in: • Commodity prices for oil, natural gas and liquid natural gas; • Economically recoverable reserves; • Operating results; • Capital expenditure obligations; and • Production levels. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. Oil and natural gas exploration, drilling and production activities are subject to numerous operating risks including the possibility of: • Blowouts, fires and explosions; • Personal injuries and death; • Uninsured or underinsured losses; • Unanticipated, abnormally pressured formations; • Mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapses; and • Environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination. Any of these operating hazards could cause damage to properties, serious injuries, fatalities, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs, and other environmental damages, which could expose us to significant liabilities. We have hurricane and other weather-related risks associated risks in connection with our operations in the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast as well as North Dakota and Montana. Because a portion of our oil and gas properties are located in or near coastal areas of the Texas and Louisiana Gulf, we have experienced in the past significant production curtailments due to hurricane damage. We could also be subject to production curtailments in the future resulting from hurricane damage to certain fields or, even in the event that producing fields are not damaged, production could be curtailed due to damage to facilities and equipment owned by oil and gas purchasers, or vendors and suppliers. We may also experience winter weather-related and spring thaw operational problems on our North Dakota and Montana properties. Due to severe winter weather and spring flooding in North Dakota and Montana in the first half of 2011 we had to shut in a number of our producing wells as well as delay several of our drilling and completion operations. We may in the future experience these operational problems due to severe weather and it will likely negatively impact our results of operations. Insurance may not fully recover potential losses. Although we believe that we are reasonably insured against losses to wells and associated equipment, potential operational or hurricane related losses could result in a loss of our reserves and properties and materially reduce our ability to self-fund exploration and development activities and property acquisitions. The insurance market, in general, and the energy insurance market in particular, have experienced substantial cost increases over Page 17 Table of Contents recent years, resulting from significant losses associated with hurricanes and commercial losses. To offset the significant cost increases we increased our deductibles and made other modifications to coverage. The potential for loss, however, cannot be accurately or reasonably predicted. If we incur substantial damages or liabilities that are not fully covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, then our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially affected. Also, as is customary in the oil and gas business, we do not carry business interruption insurance. In the future, it is also possible that we will further modify insurance coverage or determine not to purchase some insurance because of high insurance premiums. If oil and gas prices decrease or exploration efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to write-down the capitalized cost of individual oil and gas properties. A writedown of the capitalized cost of individual oil and gas properties could occur when oil and gas prices are low or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved oil and gas reserves, if operating costs or development costs increase over prior estimates, or if exploratory drilling is unsuccessful. A writedown could adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock. We use the successful efforts accounting method. All property acquisition costs and costs of exploratory and development wells are capitalized when incurred, pending the determination of whether proved reserves are discovered. If proved reserves are not discovered with an exploratory well, the costs of drilling the well are expensed. All of our geological and geophysical costs on exploratory prospects are expensed as incurred. The net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties, on a field-by-field basis, may exceed the estimated future net cash flows of that field for periods of time when oil and gas prices are low. If so, pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to record impairment charges to reduce the capitalized costs of each such field to its estimate of the field’s fair market value, even though other fields may have increased in value. Unproved properties are evaluated at the lower of cost or fair market value. These types of charges reduce earnings and shareholders’ equity. Negative or downward revisions of oil and gas reserve estimates could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Oil and gas reserves and the standardized measure of cash flows represent estimates, which may vary materially over time due to many factors. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant decreases due to decreases in our estimated reserves, our estimated cash flows and other factors. Estimated reserves may be subject to downward revision based upon future production, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices, prevailing operating and development costs, SEC rules related to proved undeveloped reserves and other factors. There are numerous uncertainties and uncontrollable factors inherent in estimating quantities of oil and gas reserves, projecting future rates of production, and timing of development expenditures. The estimates of future net cash flows from proved reserves and the standardized measure of proved reserves are based upon various assumptions about prices and costs and future production levels that may prove to be incorrect over time. Any significant variance from the assumptions could result in material differences in the actual quantity of reserves and amount of estimated future net cash flows from estimated oil and gas reserves. In addition, SEC rules generally require that proved undeveloped reserves that have not been drilled within five years be reclassified out of estimates of proved reserves; although such technically and economically recoverable reserves may be still owned or controlled by us. Accordingly, given the shortages of materials, equipment and human resources prevailing in the industry and also current low natural gas prices we may not drill certain proved undeveloped locations within the established five year time frame and therefore we may be required to reclassify such reserves out of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves. The effect of reclassifying such reserves would result in decreases in estimated proved reserve quantities and therefore could result in decreases in net income and earnings per share, resulting from increased depletion expense and possible impairments. These effects could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Page 18 Table of Contents Our hedging activities may prevent us from realizing the benefits in oil or gas price increases. In seeking to reduce our financial exposure to oil and gas price volatility, we have, and will likely continue to, enter into hedging transactions which may include fixed price swaps, price collars, puts and other derivatives. In a typical hedge transaction, we may fix the price, or establish a floor or a range, on a portion of our production over a predetermined period of time. If market prices exceed our hedge positions we will not receive the full market value for our production covered by those hedges. There are numerous risks associated with hedging activities such as the risk that reserves are not produced at rates equivalent to the hedged position, and the risk that production and transportation cost assumptions used in determining an acceptable hedge could be substantially different from the actual cost. In addition, the counter-party to the hedge may become unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under hedging contracts, and we could incur a material adverse financial effect if there is any significant non-performance. While intended to reduce the effects of oil and gas price volatility, hedging transactions may limit potential gains earned by us from oil and gas price increases and may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances. The adoption of derivatives legislation by the U. S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing certain portions of it in the near future. In July 2011, the CFTC granted temporary exemptive relief from certain swap regulation provisions of the legislation until December 21, 2011, or until the agency finalized the corresponding rules. In December 2011, the CFTC extended the potential latest expiration date of the exemptive relief to July 16, 2012. In its rulemaking under the new legislation, the CFTC has issued a final rule on position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions are exempt from these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will finalize other regulations, including critical rulemaking on the definition of “swap”, “swap dealer” and “major swap participant.” Depending on our classification, the financial reform legislation may require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The recent legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. The use of debt financing may adversely affect our business strategy. We have used debt to fund a portion of our activities and we are using debt to fund a portion of our future acquisition and development activities. Any temporary or sustained inability to service or repay debt we incur will materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and will materially adversely affect our ability to obtain other financing. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants in our existing Credit Agreement that could restrict our operating activities, and the failure to comply could result in defaults that accelerate the payment of our debt. Our Credit Agreement generally contains customary covenants, including, among others, provisions: • Relating to the maintenance of the oil and gas properties securing the debt; • Restricting our ability to assign or further encumber the properties securing the debt; and • All of our obligations under our Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets. Page 19 Table of Contents • A current ratio of not less than 1.0:1.0 excluding current hedge obligations; and • A funded debt to EBITDAX ratio of not greater than 4.0:1.0. As of the date of this report, we were in compliance with all such covenants. If we were to breach any of our debt covenants and not cure the breach within any applicable cure period, the lender could require us to immediately repay any outstanding debt amounts at the time, and if the debt is secured, could immediately begin proceedings to take possession of substantially all of our properties. Any such property losses would materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. Global financial and economic circumstances may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. Global financial markets may have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if conditions in the financial markets are inadequate to finance our activities at a reasonable cost of capital. While the current economic situation has improved since 2008 any deterioration in financial markets (or changes in lending practices) could have a material adverse impact on our lenders. Furthermore, adverse economic circumstances could cause customers, joint owners or other parties with whom we transact business to fail to meet their obligations to us. Additionally, market conditions could have a materially adverse impact on our commodity hedging arrangements if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Also, worldwide economic conditions could lead to reduced demand for oil and natural gas, or lower prices for oil and natural gas, or both, which could have a material negative impact on our revenues, results of operations and financial conditions. Our properties may be subject to influence by third parties that do not allow us to proceed with planned explorations and expenditures. We are the operator of a majority of our properties, but for many of our properties we own less than 100% of the working interests. Joint ownership is customary in the oil and gas industry and is generally conducted under the terms of a joint operating agreement (“JOA”), where a single working interest owner is designated as the “operator” of the property. For properties where we own less than 100% of the working interest, whether operated or non-operated, drilling and operating decisions may not be within our sole control. If we disagree with the decision of a majority of working interest owners, we may be required, among other things, to postpone the proposed activity or decline to participate. If we decline to participate, we might be forced to relinquish our interest through “in-or-out” elections or may be subject to certain non-consent penalties, as provided in a JOA. In-or-out elections may require a joint owner to participate, or forever relinquish its position. Non-consent penalties typically allow participating working interest owners to recover from the proceeds of production, if any, and an amount equal to 200% to 500% of the non-participating working interest owner’s share of the cost of such operations. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated or curtailed as a result of future legislation. Among the changes contained in the Obama Administration’s Fiscal Year 2013 budget proposal, released by the Office of Management and Budget on February 13, 2012, is the elimination or deferral of certain U.S. federal income tax deductions and credits currently available to domestic oil and gas exploration companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (ii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities for oil and gas properties; (iii) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures and (iv) the repeal of the enhanced oil recovery credit. Some of these same proposals to repeal or limit oil and gas tax deductions and credits have been included in legislation that has recently been considered by Congress. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal, or the passage of bills containing similar changes in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or defer certain tax deductions and credits that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development and could negatively affect our financial results. Page 20 Table of Contents Recovery of investments in acquiring oil and gas properties is uncertain. We cannot assure that we will recover the costs we incur in acquiring oil and gas properties. While the acquisition and development of oil and gas properties is based on engineering, geological and geophysical assessments, such data and analysis is inexact and inherently uncertain. There can be no assurance that any properties we acquire will be economically produced or developed. Re-engineering operations pose the risk that anticipated benefits, which may include reserve additions, production rate improvements or lower recurring operating expenses, may not be achieved, or that actual results obtained may not be sufficient to recover investments. Drilling activities, whether exploratory or developmental, are subject to mechanical and geological risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be encountered. Unsuccessful acquisitions, re-engineering or drilling activities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve continued growth in assets, production or revenue. There can be no assurance that we will continue to experience growth in revenues, oil and gas reserves or production. Any future growth in oil and gas reserves, production and operations will place significant demands on us and our management and personnel. Our future performance and profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate acquired properties into our operations, develop such properties, hire additional personnel and implement necessary enhancements to our management systems. The nature of our business and assets may expose us to significant compliance costs and liabilities. Our operations involving the exploration, production, storage, treatment, and transportation of liquid hydrocarbons, including crude oil, are subject to stringent federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment. Our operations are also subject to laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, operational safety, and related employee health and safety matters. Compliance with all of these laws and regulations may represent a significant cost of doing business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities; and the issuance of injunctions that may restrict, inhibit or prohibit our operations; or claims of damages to property or persons. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may require us to spend significant resources. Environmental laws and regulations may: (1) require the acquisition of a permit before well drilling commences; (2) restrict or prohibit the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; (3) prohibit or limit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wetlands or other protected areas; and (4) impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from past or present drilling and production operations. Moreover, changes in Federal and state environmental laws and regulations, as well as how such laws and regulations are administered, could occur and may result in more stringent and costly requirements which could have a significant impact on our operating costs. In general, under various applicable environmental regulations, we may be subject to enforcement action in the form of injunctions, cease and desist orders and administrative, civil and criminal penalties for violations of environmental laws. We may also be subject to liability from third parties for civil claims by affected neighbors arising out of a pollution event. Laws and regulations protecting the environment may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. Such laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for our acts which were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such acts were performed. We believe we are in compliance with applicable environmental and other governmental laws and regulations. In recent years, increased concerns have been raised over the protection of the environment. Legislation to regulate the emissions of greenhouse gases has been introduced in Congress, and there has been a wide-ranging policy debate, both nationally and internationally, regarding the impact of these gases and possible means for their regulation. In addition, efforts have been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues. Also, the EPA has recently undertaken significant efforts to collect information regarding greenhouse gas emissions and their effects. Page 21 Table of Contents Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gasses” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for crude oil and natural gas that we produce. In December 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, (“EPA”) determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases (“GHGs”), present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gasses are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. Based on these findings the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA has adopted two sets of rules regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act, one set of rules limit emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other set of rules require certain Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V permit requirements for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. The EPA rules have tailored the PSD and Title V permitting programs to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. These EPA rulemakings could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified sources in the United States, including, among others, certain oil and natural gas production facilities, which may include certain of our operations, on an annual basis. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise limits emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Federal, state, and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as government reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs, additional operating restrictions or delays, and adversely affect our production and/or ability to book future reserves. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand, and chemical additives under pressure into a targeted subsurface formation. The water and pressure create fractures in the rock formations, which are held open by the grains of sand, enabling the oil or natural gas to flow to the wellbore. We engage third parties to provide hydraulic fracturing or other well stimulation services for us in connection with several wells or proposed wells for which we are the operator. We find that the use of hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas from many reservoirs, especially shale formations such as the Bakken and the Eagle Ford trends, where we have significant acreage. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions; however, the EPA, recently asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic-fracturing activities involving diesel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and has begun the process of drafting guidance documents related to this newly asserted regulatory authority. In November 2011, the EPA announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. In February 2012, the U.S. Department of the Interior (the “DOI”) released draft regulations governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian oil and gas leases to require disclosure of information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, advance approval for well-stimulation activities, mechanical integrity testing of casing, and monitoring of well-stimulation operations. In addition, the U.S. Congress, from time to time, has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In the event that a new, federal level of legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic-fracturing process are adopted in areas where we currently or in the future plan to operate, we may incur additional costs to comply with such federal requirements that may be significant in nature, and also could become subject to additional permitting requirements and cause us to experience added delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities. There are also certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic-fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic-fracturing practices, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic-fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study Page 22 Table of Contents of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic-fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy is conducting an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic-fracturing completion methods. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, Colorado, Montana, Pennsylvania, Louisiana, Texas, and Wyoming, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, and additional well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. For example, Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure to the Railroad Commission of Texas and the public of certain information regarding the components used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. These regulations affect our operations, increase our costs of exploration and production and limit the quantity of natural gas and oil that we can economically produce. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities on a timely basis following leasing. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to explore on or develop our properties. Additionally, the natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase our financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, these additional costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to larger companies in the industry which can spread such additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. Our failure to successfully identify, complete and integrate future acquisitions of properties or businesses could reduce our earnings and slow our growth. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry for attractive oil and gas properties and other E&P companies. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our ability to complete acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Completed acquisitions could require us to invest further in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and manage effectively additional employees. The inability to effectively manage the integration of acquisitions could reduce our focus on subsequent acquisitions and current operations, which, in turn, could negatively impact our earnings and growth. Our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, based on whether or not significant acquisitions are completed in particular periods. We are exposed to trade credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our vendors, customers and by counterparties to our hedging arrangements. Some of our vendors, customers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Many of our vendors, customers and counterparties finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the use of debt or the issuance of equity. Even if our credit reviews are satisfactory, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our vendors, customers and/or counterparties could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could eliminate certain proposed drilling locations or materially delay the timing of their drilling. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability and cost of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, natural gas and oil prices, Page 23 Table of Contents drilling and completion costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if all the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified and plan to drill ultimately will be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas economically from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue making substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration for and development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. To date, we have financed, and in the future we intend to continue to finance, capital expenditures primarily with cash generated by operations, proceeds from bank borrowings, including under existing facilities, and sales of equity securities. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables that may or may not be within our control, including: • The level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • The prices at which our oil and natural gas production is sold; • The results of our development programs associated with proved and unproved properties; • Our ability to acquire, locate and produce new economically recoverable reserves; • Global credit and securities markets; and • The ability and willingness of lenders and investors to provide capital and the cost of that capital. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our credit facility decreases as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may, from time to time, need to seek additional financing. Our credit facility restricts our ability to obtain new debt financing outside that facility. There can be no assurance as to the availability or terms of any additional or alternative financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to possible writedowns in the carrying value of our properties, a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves as well as our revenues and results of operations. Changes in financial markets could result in significantly reduced access to public and private capital as well as substantially higher costs of capital if we are able to obtain capital. Historically, we have obtained equity and debt capital to fund our growth strategy. We may require additional equity capital in order to pursue our business strategy and avoid excessive debt levels. Financial markets often change abruptly and we may not be able to attract investors that would provide equity capital to us at all, or the costs to obtain such capital may be prohibitive. To the extent that we may attract capital, the costs of such capital could increase appreciably and such capital may take forms, such as preferred stock or convertible debt, which would be senior to our common stock. We believe that the ability to attract capital at reasonable costs is critical to our long-term growth strategy, particularly due to the depleting nature of oil and gas operations. Page 24 Table of Contents Effects of inflation and pricing may impact our demand for goods and services. The oil and gas industry is cyclical and the demand for goods and services of oil field companies, suppliers and others associated with the industry puts significant pressure on the economic stability and pricing structure within the industry. Demand for equipment and services have caused costs to increase significantly since 2008. Typically, as prices for oil and natural gas increase, so do all associated costs. Conversely, in a period of declining prices, associated cost declines are likely to lag and may not adjust downward in proportion. Material changes in prices would also impact our current revenue stream, estimates of future reserves, borrowing base calculations of bank loans, impairment assessments of oil and gas properties, and values of properties in purchase and sale transactions. Material changes in prices generally impact the value of oil and gas companies and their ability to raise capital, borrow money and retain personnel. There are a substantial number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale in the public market. The sale of a large number of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. There were 25,625,792 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 9, 2012. Members of our management owned approximately 4,450,311 shares of our common stock, representing 17% of our outstanding common stock as of March 9, 2012. Sale of a substantial number of these shares would likely have a significant negative effect on the market price of our common stock, particularly if the sales are made over a short period of time. These shares may be sold publicly pursuant to an effective registration statement with the SEC. If our shareholders, particularly management and their affiliates, sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of shares of our common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that our management and affiliates might sell shares of our common stock could have a depressing effect on the market price of our shares. Page 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Page 26 Table of Contents 