Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are risks with respect to our Company. Readers should review these risks, together with the other information contained in this report. The risks and uncertainties we have described in this report are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may become material and also adversely affect our business. Any of the risks discussed in this report that are presently unknown or immaterial, if they were to actually occur, could result in a significant adverse impact on our business, operating results, prospects and/or financial condition. See “Forward Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report for additional risks. We are dependent upon the services of our chief executive officer and other executive officers. We are dependent upon a limited number of personnel, including Frank A. Lodzinski, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and other management personnel and key employees. Failure to retain the services of these persons, or to replace them with adequate personnel in the event of their departure or termination, may have a material adverse effect on our operations. No employment agreements with any of our officers currently exist, but we may consider such agreements in the future. We have no key-man life insurance on the lives of any of our executive officers. We must successfully acquire or develop additional reserves of oil and gas. Our future production of oil and gas is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. The rate of production from our oil and gas properties generally decreases as reserves are produced. We may not be able to acquire or develop oil and gas properties economically due to a lack of drilling success as well as lack of capital and inability to obtain adequate financing, which may be required to fund prospect generation, drilling operations and property acquisitions. Intense competition in the oil and gas exploration and production segment could adversely affect our ability to acquire desirable properties prospective for oil and gas, as well as producing oil and gas properties. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. We compete with major integrated and independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of desirable oil and gas properties and leases, for the equipment and services required to develop and operate properties, and in the marketing of oil and gas to end-users. Many competitors have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than ours, which could, in the future, make acquisitions of producing properties at economic prices difficult for us. In addition, many larger competitors may be better able to respond to factors that affect the demand for oil and natural gas production, such as changes in worldwide oil and natural gas prices and levels of production, the cost and availability of alternative fuels and the application of government regulations. We also face significant competition in attracting and retaining experienced, capable and technical personnel, including geologists, geophysicists, engineers, landmen and others with experience in the oil and gas industry. The domestic oil and gas exploration and production industry is faced with shortages of personnel and equipment, and such shortages may adversely affect our operations and financial results. The oil and gas industry, as a whole, suffers from an aging workforce and a shortage of qualified and experienced personnel. Our operations and financial results may be adversely impacted due to difficulties in attracting and retaining such personnel within our Company or within companies that provide materials and services to the industry. Additional personnel are likely to be required in connection with our expansion plans, and the domestic oil and gas industry has in the past experienced significant shortages of qualified personnel in all areas of operations. Further, our expansion plans will likely require access to services and oil field equipment. Such equipment and operating personnel are currently in short supply. The substantial increase in commodity prices in 2010 has resulted in increased drilling and construction activity in the industry and shortages of personnel and equipment are present in our primary areas of focus – the Williston Basin in North Dakota and the Eagle Ford trend in Texas. Page 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The unavailability of drilling rigs and field services in the Bakken trend in North Dakota and the Eagle Ford trend in Texas could adversely affect our ability to execute our development plans within our budget on a timely basis. Existing shortages of drilling rig service providers for pressure pumping and other services required for well completion in the Bakken trend in North Dakota and Montana and the Eagle Ford trend in Texas have delayed our development and production operations and caused us to incur additional expenditures that were not provided for in our capital budget. We cannot determine the magnitude or length of these shortages, but they could have a material adverse effect on our business cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. We may experience significant delays between drilling and completion on both our operated and non-operated properties in the Bakken trend and the Eagle Ford trend. Industry-wide delays between drilling and completion operations in Bakken trend and the Eagle Ford trend may continue to increase. Increased delays could delay or adversely affect our exploration, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our success will depend on the results of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data, and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Furthermore, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including: • Shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel such as we are currently experiencing; • Pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • Equipment failures or accidents; • Adverse weather conditions; • Reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • Issues associated with property titles; and • Delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements. Volatile oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our most significant market risk is the pricing of crude oil and natural gas. Management expects energy prices to remain volatile and unpredictable. Moreover, oil and natural gas prices depend on factors that are outside of our control, including: • Economic and energy infrastructure disruptions caused by actual or threatened acts of war, or terrorist activities particularly with respect to oil producers in the Middle East, Nigeria and Venezuela; • Weather conditions, such as hurricanes, including energy infrastructure disruptions resulting from those conditions; • Changes in the global oil supply, demand and inventories; • Changes in domestic natural gas supply, demand and inventories; • The price and quantity of foreign imports of oil; • The price and availability of liquefied natural gas imports; • Political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing countries; • General economic conditions in the United Stated and worldwide; • The level of worldwide oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • Technological advances affecting energy consumption; and Page 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • The price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil and natural gas prices not only decrease revenues on a per unit basis, but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce. Lower prices also negatively impact estimates of our proved reserves. We have attempted to mitigate the risks associated with commodity price fluctuations by hedging a portion of production through price swaps and costless collars. However, substantial or extended declines in oil or natural gas prices may still materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance operations and planned capital expenditures. Industry changes may adversely affect various financial measurements and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Although we believe that our business strategy has and will allow us to continue our growth and increase operating efficiencies, unforeseen costs and industry changes, as listed below, could potentially have an adverse effect on return of capital and earnings per share. Future events and conditions could cause any such changes to be significant, including, among other things, adverse changes in: • Commodity prices for oil, natural gas and liquid natural gas; • Reserve levels; • Operating results; • Capital expenditure obligations; and • Production levels. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. Oil and natural gas exploration, drilling and production activities are subject to numerous operating risks including the possibility of: • Blowouts, fires and explosions; • Personal injuries and death; • Uninsured or underinsured losses; • Unanticipated, abnormally pressured formations; • Mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapses; and • Environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination. Any of these operating hazards could cause damage to properties, serious injuries, fatalities, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs, and other environmental damages, which could expose us to liabilities. We have hurricane associated risks in connection with our operations in the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast. We have experienced in the past significant production curtailments due to hurricane damage. We could also be subject to production curtailments in the future resulting from hurricane damage to certain fields or, even in the event that producing fields are not damaged, production could be curtailed due to damage to facilities and equipment owned by oil and gas purchasers, or vendors and suppliers, because a portion of our oil and gas properties are located in or near coastal areas of the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast. Insurance may not fully recover potential losses. Although we believe that we are reasonably insured against losses to wells and associated equipment, potential operational or hurricane related losses could result in a loss of our reserves and properties and materially reduce the funds available for exploration and development activities and acquisitions. The insurance market, in general, and the energy insurance market in particular, have experienced substantial cost increases over recent years, resulting from significant losses associated with hurricanes and commercial losses. To offset the significant cost Page 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements increases we have increased our deductibles and made other modifications to coverage. We believe these changes are reasonable, considering both the underlying risks and our size and financial standing. The potential for loss, however, cannot be accurately or reasonably predicted. If we incur substantial damages or liabilities that are not fully covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, then our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially affected. Also, as is customary in the oil and gas business, we do not carry business interruption insurance. In the future, it is also possible that we will further modify insurance coverage or determine not to purchase some insurance because of high insurance premiums. If oil and gas prices decrease or exploration efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to write-down the capitalized cost of individual oil and gas properties. A writedown of the capitalized cost of individual oil and gas properties could occur when oil and gas prices are low or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved oil and gas reserves, if operating costs or development costs increase over prior estimates, or if exploratory drilling is unsuccessful. A writedown could adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock. We use the successful efforts accounting method. All property acquisition costs and costs of exploratory and development wells are capitalized when incurred, pending the determination of whether proved reserves are discovered. If proved reserves are not discovered with an exploratory well, the costs of drilling the well are expensed. All geological and geophysical costs on exploratory prospects are expensed as incurred. The capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties, on a field-by-field basis, may exceed the estimated future net cash flows of that field. If so, pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to record impairment charges to reduce the capitalized costs of each such field to its estimate of the field’s fair market value, even though other fields may have increased in value. Unproved properties are evaluated at the lower of cost or fair market value. These types of charges will reduce earnings and shareholders’ equity. Revisions of oil and gas reserve estimates could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Oil and gas reserves and the standardized measure of cash flows represent estimates, which may vary materially over time due to many factors. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant decreases due to decreases in our estimated reserves, our estimated cash flows and other factors. Estimated reserves may be subject to downward revision based upon future production, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices, prevailing operating and development costs and other factors. There are numerous uncertainties and uncontrollable factors inherent in estimating quantities of oil and gas reserves, projecting future rates of production, and timing of development expenditures. In addition, the estimates of future net cash flows from proved reserves and the present value of proved reserves are based upon various assumptions about prices and costs and future production levels that may prove to be incorrect over time. Any significant variance from the assumptions could result in material differences in the actual quantity of reserves and amount of estimated future net cash flows from estimated oil and gas reserves. Our hedging activities may prevent us from realizing the benefits in oil or gas price increases. In an attempt to reduce our sensitivity to oil and gas price volatility, we have, and will likely continue to, enter into hedging transactions which may include fixed price swaps, price collars, puts and other derivatives. In a typical hedge transaction, we may fix the price, a floor or a range, on a portion of our production over a predetermined period of time. It is expected that we will receive, from the counter-party to the hedge, payment of the excess of the fixed price specified in the hedge contract over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the volume of the production hedged. Conversely, if the floating price exceeds the fixed price, we would be required to pay the counter-party such price difference multiplied by the volume of production hedged. There are numerous risks associated with hedging activities such as the risk that reserves are not produced at rates equivalent to the hedged position, and the risk that production and transportation cost assumptions used in determining an acceptable hedge could be substantially different from the actual cost. In addition, the counter-party to the hedge may become unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under hedging contracts, and we could incur a material Page 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements adverse financial effect if there is any significant non-performance. While intended to reduce the effects of oil and gas price volatility, hedging transactions may limit potential gains earned by us from oil and gas price increases and may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative contracts to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) is comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing certain portions of it by mid-July 2011. The CFTC has also proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC will adopt similar rules or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the new legislation. The financial reform legislation may require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative contracts to spin off some of their derivatives contracts to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity contracts related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower the commodity prices we realize. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. The use of debt financing may adversely affect our business strategy. We have used debt to fund a portion of our activities and we will likely use debt to fund a portion of our future acquisition activities. Any temporary or sustained inability to service or repay debt will materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and will materially adversely affect our ability to obtain other financing. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants in our existing Second Amended Credit Facility that could restrict our operating activities, and the failure to comply could result in defaults that accelerate the payment of our debt. Our Second Amended Credit Facility generally contains customary covenants, including, among others, provisions: • Relating to the maintenance of the oil and gas properties securing the debt; • Restricting our ability to assign or further encumber the properties securing the debt; and • All of our obligations under the Second Amended Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets. In addition, our Second Amended Credit Facility requires us to maintain financial covenants, including, but not limited to the following: • A current ratio of not less than 1.0:1.0 excluding current hedge obligations; • A funded debt to EBITDAX ratio of not greater than 4.0:1.0; and • An interest coverage ratio, which is the ratio of the EBITDAX for the four most recently completed quarters ending on such date compared to the cash interest payments made for such fiscal quarters, of not less than 3.0:1.0. Page 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As of the date of this report, we were in compliance with all such covenants. If we were to breach any of our debt covenants and not cure the breach within any applicable cure period, the lender could require us to immediately repay any outstanding debt amounts at the time, and if the debt is secured, could immediately begin proceedings to take possession of substantially all of our properties. Any such property losses would materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. Global financial and economic circumstances may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. Global financial markets may have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if conditions in the financial markets are inadequate to finance our activities at a reasonable cost of capital. While the current economic situation has improved since 2008 any deterioration in financial markets (or changes in lending practices) could have a material adverse impact on our lenders. Furthermore, adverse economic circumstances could cause customers, joint owners or other parties with whom we transact business to fail to meet their obligations to us. Additionally, market conditions could have a materially adverse impact on our commodity hedging arrangements if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Also, worldwide economic conditions could lead to reduced demand for oil and natural gas, or lower prices for oil and natural gas, or both, which could have a material negative impact on our revenues, results of operations and financial conditions. Our properties may be subject to influence by third parties that do not allow us to proceed with planned explorations and expenditures. We are the operator of a majority of our properties, but for many of our properties we own less than 100% of the working interests. Joint ownership is customary in the oil and gas industry and is generally conducted under the terms of a joint operating agreement (“JOA”), where a single working interest owner is designated as the “operator” of the property. For properties where we own less than 100% of the working interest, whether operated or non-operated, drilling and operating decisions may not be within our sole control. If we disagree with the decision of a majority of working interest owners, we may be required, among other things, to postpone the proposed activity or decline to participate. If we decline to participate, we might be forced to relinquish our interest through “in-or-out” elections or may be subject to certain non-consent penalties, as provided in a JOA. In-or-out elections may require a joint owner to participate, or forever relinquish its position. Non-consent penalties typically allow participating working interest owners to recover from the proceeds of production, if any, an amount equal to 200% to 500% of the non-participating working interest owner’s share of the cost of such operations. Recent legislative proposals could materially lessen the economic viability of domestic exploration and production companies, including us. The budgetary proposals of the Obama Administration, if enacted into law by Congress, could have a material adverse impact on the domestic oil and gas industry and on exploration and production companies in particular. The proposals would eliminate the so called “oil and gas company preferences” and raise other taxes on the industry. The proposed budget would eliminate tax mechanisms critical to capital formation for drilling, such as expensing of intangible drilling costs and eliminating the percentage depletion allowance, and if enacted, would have a significant adverse impact on domestic drilling for oil and natural gas. The proposed budget would also charge producers user fees for processing permits to drill on federal lands and increase royalty rates of minerals produced from federal lands. We cannot predict the outcome of the proposed U.S. Government budget, but the enactment of any of the proposals would likely adversely affect the domestic oil and gas exploration and production business by making future production more difficult and expensive, thereby lessening the economic viability of these companies, of which we are part. Recovery of investments in acquiring oil and gas properties is uncertain. We cannot assure that we will recover the costs we incur in acquiring oil and gas properties. While the acquisition and development of oil and gas properties is based on engineering, geological and geophysical assessments, such data and analysis is inexact and inherently uncertain. There can be no assurance that any Page 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements properties we acquire will be economically produced or developed. Re-engineering operations pose the risk that anticipated benefits, which may include reserve additions, production rate improvements or lower recurring operating expenses, may not be achieved, or that actual results obtained may not be sufficient to recover investments. Drilling activities, whether exploratory or developmental, are subject to mechanical and geological risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be encountered. Unsuccessful acquisitions, re-engineering or drilling activities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure we would be able to achieve continued growth in assets, production or revenue. There can be no assurance that we will continue to experience growth in revenues, oil and gas reserves or production. Any future growth in oil and gas reserves, production and operations will place significant demands on us and our management and personnel. Our future performance and profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate acquired properties into our operations, develop such properties, hire additional personnel and implement necessary enhancements to our management systems. The nature of our business and assets may expose us to significant compliance costs and liabilities. Our operations involving the exploration, production, storage, treatment, and transportation of liquid hydrocarbons, including crude oil, are subject to stringent federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment. Our operations are also subject to laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, operational safety, and related employee health and safety matters. Compliance with all of these laws and regulations may represent a significant cost of doing business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities; and the issuance of injunctions that may restrict, inhibit or prohibit our operations; or claims of damages to property or persons. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may require us to spend significant resources. Environmental laws and regulations may: (1) require the acquisition of a permit before well drilling commences; (2) restrict or prohibit the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; (3) prohibit or limit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wetlands or other protected areas; and (4) impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from past or present drilling and production operations. Moreover, changes in Federal and state environmental laws and regulations, as well as how such laws and regulations are administered, could occur and may result in more stringent and costly requirements which could have a significant impact on our operating costs. In general, under various applicable environmental regulations, we may be subject to enforcement action in the form of injunctions, cease and desist orders and administrative, civil and criminal penalties for violations of environmental laws. We may also be subject to liability from third parties for civil claims by affected neighbors arising out of a pollution event. Laws and regulations protecting the environment may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. Such laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for our acts which were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such acts were performed. We believe we are in compliance with applicable environmental and other governmental laws and regulations. In recent years, increased concerns have been raised over the protection of the environment. Legislation to regulate the emissions of greenhouse gases has been introduced in Congress, and there has been a wide-ranging policy debate, both nationally and internationally, regarding the impact of these gases and possible means for their regulation. In addition, efforts have been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues, such as the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen in 2009. Also, the EPA has undertaken new efforts to collect information regarding greenhouse gas emissions and their effects. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gasses” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for oil and gas that we produce. Page 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases, or “GHGs,” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gasses are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA has adopted two sets of regulations under the Clean Air Act. The first limits emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles beginning with the 2012 model year. The EPA has asserted that these final motor vehicle GHG emission standards trigger Clean Air Act construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources, effective as of when the motor vehicle standards took effect on January 2, 2011. On June 3, 2010, the EPA published its final rule to address the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V permitting programs. This rule “tailors” these permitting programs to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. It is widely expected that facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to reduce those emissions according to “best available control technology” standards for GHG that have yet to be developed. In addition, on November 8, 2010, the EPA adopted the final rule which expands its existing GHG reporting rule to include certain onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution facilities. The final rule is effective as of December 30, 2010 and requires reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Our operations will likely be subject to the latter rule. In addition, both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and more than one-third of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that limits emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations and could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have in an adverse effect on our assets and operations. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and inability to book future reserves. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into rock formations to stimulate hydrocarbon (oil and natural gas) production. We engage third parties to provide hydraulic fracturing or other well stimulation services to us in connection with several wells or proposed wells for which we are the operator. We find that the use of hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas from many reservoirs, especially shale formations such as the Bakken and the Eagle Ford, where we have significant acreage. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, Congress recently has considered two companion bills in connection with the proposed “Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act” (the “FRAC Act”). While now not under consideration by Congress, if reintroduced, the bills would repeal an exemption in the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act (“SWDA”) for the underground injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids near drinking water sources and require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Sponsors of the FRAC Act have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process may be adversely impacting drinking water supplies. If reintroduced, the legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process. The availability of this information could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. Further, if reintroduced and enacted, the FRAC Act could result in additional regulatory burdens such as permitting, construction, financial assurance, monitoring, recordkeeping, and plugging and abandonment requirements. In addition, the Energy and Commerce Committee of the United States House of Representatives is conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Page 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Recently, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the SWDA’s Underground Injection Control Program. While the EPA has yet to take any action to enforce or implement this newly asserted regulatory authority, industry groups have filed suit challenging the EPA’s recent decision. On February 8, 2011, the EPA submitted its draft study plan on the effects of hydraulic fracturing on human health and the environment to the EPA’s Science Advisory Board for comment. Thereafter, the EPA will revise and begin the study. The EPA expects to make public its initial findings by the end of 2012 and an additional report with further research in 2014. Further, the agency has announced that one of its enforcement initiatives for 2011 to 2013 would be to focus on environmental compliance by the energy extraction sector, and has already commenced one potential enforcement matter in Texas. This study and enforcement initiative could result in additional regulatory scrutiny that could make it difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. If hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, Pennsylvania, Colorado, and Wyoming have each adopted a variety of well construction, set back, and disclosure regulations limiting how fracturing can be performed and requiring various degrees of chemical disclosure. These regulations affect our operations, increase our costs of exploration and production and limit the quantity of natural gas and oil that we can economically produce. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities on a timely basis following leasing. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to explore on or develop our properties. Additionally, the natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase our financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, these additional costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to larger companies in the industry which can spread such additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. Our failure to successfully identify, complete and integrate future acquisitions of properties or business could reduce our earnings and slow our growth. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our ability to complete acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Completed acquisitions could require us to invest further in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage additional employees. The inability to effectively manage the integration of acquisitions could reduce our focus on subsequent acquisitions and current operations, which, in turn, could negatively impact our earnings and growth. Our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, based on whether or not significant acquisitions are completed in particular periods. We are exposed to trade credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our vendors, customers and by counterparties to our price risk management arrangements. Some of our vendors, customers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Many of our vendors, customers and counterparties finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Even if our credit reviews work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our vendors, customers and/or counterparties could adversely affect our business. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Page 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, natural gas and oil prices, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to economically produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue making substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration for and development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. To date, we have financed, and in the future we intend to continue to finance, capital expenditures primarily with cash generated by operations, proceeds from bank borrowings, including under existing facilities, and sales of equity securities. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables that may or may not be within our control, including: • The level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • The prices at which our oil and natural gas production is sold; • The results of our development programs associated with proved and unproved properties; • Our ability to acquire, locate and produce new economically recoverable reserves; • Global credit and securities markets; and • The ability and willingness of lenders and investors to provide capital and the cost of that capital. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our credit facility decreases as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may, from time to time, need to seek additional financing. Our credit facility restricts our ability to obtain new debt financing outside that facility. There can be no assurance as to the availability or terms of any additional or alternative financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to possible writedowns in the carrying value of our properties, a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves as well as our revenues and results of operations. Changes in financial markets could result in significantly reduced access to public and private capital as well as substantially higher costs of capital if we are able to obtain capital. Oil and gas activities are capital intensive. Historically, we have obtained equity and debt capital to fund our growth strategy. We may require additional equity capital in order to pursue our business strategy and avoid excessive debt levels. Financial markets often change abruptly and we may not be able to attract investors that would provide equity capital to us at all, or the costs to obtain such capital may be unreasonable. To the extent that we may attract capital, the costs of such capital could increase appreciably and such capital may take forms, such as preferred stock or convertible debt, which would be senior to our common stock. We believe that the ability to attract capital at reasonable costs is critical to our long-term growth strategy, particularly due to the depleting nature of oil and gas operations. Effects of inflation and pricing may impact our demand for goods and services. Page 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The oil and gas industry is cyclical and the demand for goods and services of oil field companies, suppliers and others associated with the industry put significant pressure on the economic stability and pricing structure within the industry. Demand for equipment and services have caused costs to increase significantly throughout 2009 and 2010. Typically, as prices for oil and natural gas increase, so do all associated costs. Conversely, in a period of declining prices, associated cost declines are likely to lag and may not adjust downward in proportion. Material changes in prices also impact our current revenue stream, estimates of future reserves, borrowing base calculations of bank loans, impairment assessments of oil and gas properties, and values of properties in purchase and sale transactions. Material changes in prices can impact the value of oil and gas companies and their ability to raise capital, borrow money and retain personnel. There are a substantial number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale in the public market. The sale of a large number of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. There were 25,420,842 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 10, 2011. Members of our management owned approximately 5,597,959 shares of our common stock, representing 22% of our outstanding common stock as of March 10, 2011. Sale of a substantial number of these shares would likely have a significant negative effect on the market price of our common stock, particularly if the sales are made over a short period of time. These shares may be sold publicly pursuant to an effective registration statement with the SEC. If our shareholders, particularly management and their affiliates, sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of shares of our common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that our management and affiliates might sell shares of our common stock could have a depressing effect on the market price of our shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 