1A. Risk Factors 15-22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2 Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 23 Executive Officers of the Registrant 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25-27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 27 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28-45 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 45 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 46 Item 9B. Other Information 46-47 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 48-49 Item 11. Executive Compensation 50-71 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 71-74 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 75 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 75-76 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 77-112 Signatures 113 2 CAUTIONARY NOTE CONCERNING FACTORS THAT MAY INFLUENCE FUTURE RESULTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management's current expectations or plans for the future operating and financial performance of Gerber Scientific, Inc., based on assumptions currently believed to be reasonable. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K can be identified by the use of words such as "believe," "expect," "intend," "foresee," "may," "plan," "anticipate" and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Some of these risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from expectations are set forth in Item 1A. "Risk Factors" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure that the results of operations, financial condition or cash flows will not be adversely affected by one or more of these factors. Gerber Scientific, Inc. does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement made in this report or that may from time to time be made by or on behalf of the company. 3 PART I Unless indicated, or unless the context otherwise requires, references in this report to "Gerber" mean Gerber Scientific, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Gerber Scientific, Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures, distributes and services capital equipment and software in three industries worldwide. Of its total revenue of $552.8 million for fiscal 2009, Gerber generated $320.7 million in sales of printing equipment, software and related supplies to customers in the sign making and specialty graphics industry; $174.6 million in sales of sophisticated design and cutting equipment and software to customers in the apparel and flexible materials industry; and $57.5 million in sales of processing equipment, software and related supplies to customers in the ophthalmic lens processing industry. Gerber operates manufacturing facilities in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Germany and China and maintains sales, distribution and service operations in over 25 countries. To maximize its geographic sales coverage, Gerber markets its products through both a direct sales force and independent sales agents located throughout all of the company's domestic and international markets. Revenue from international sales, including United States export sales, represented approximately 68 percent of total revenue for fiscal 2009. As of April 30, 2009, Gerber had approximately 2,180 employees, of whom approximately two-thirds were based outside of the United States. Gerber's sales strategy emphasizes new product development and expansion into new geographic markets. Significant product launches by Gerber's three businesses in the past two fiscal years have included Gerber Scientific Product's Solara ion™ wide-format ultraviolet inkjet printer, Gerber Technology's GERBERcutter® XLc7000 apparel cutting system, and Gerber Coburn's Advanced Lens Processing System. Gerber's product development process focuses on platform development that enables the company to leverage its product innovations with product extensions and add-ons. Gerber's long-term growth strategy features geographic expansion in Asian markets, particularly in China, and the addition of markets throughout Europe. Gerber pursues a number of initiatives intended to improve its operating efficiency and gross profit margins. The focus of this effort is the implementation of lean manufacturing principles aimed at increasing Gerber's profit margins, including strengthening manufacturing policies and procedures, consolidating and improving supplier relationships, improving inventory methods and reducing inventory, seeking low-cost sourcing opportunities for key parts and components used in the company's newer products, and increasing the company's offerings of higher-margin value-added products. To supplement its internal growth, Gerber follows a targeted acquisition strategy that focuses on "bolt-on" acquisition candidates that management expects will contribute to the growth of Gerber's core businesses, increase earnings per share, and generate positive cash flow in the first year of acquisition. In the past two fiscal years, in accordance with this strategy, Gerber has acquired Data Technology, Inc., a manufacturer of automated cutting hardware for the packaging and graphics industries, Gamma Computer Tech Co., Ltd, a China-based manufacturer of equipment for apparel and flexible materials markets, and Virtek Vision International, Inc., a company located primarily in Canada and Germany that manufactures precision laser-based templating, inspection, marking and engraving solutions for industrial material operations. Gerber Scientific, Inc. was incorporated in Connecticut in 1948. Gerber's principal executive offices are located at 83 Gerber Road West, South Windsor, Connecticut 06074, and its main telephone number at that address is (860) 644-1551. 4 Segment Information The table below presents information about Gerber's three operating segments: For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2009 Operating Segment Principal Business Unit(s) Revenue (in millions) Percent of Revenue Sign Making and Specialty Graphics Gerber Scientific Products and Spandex $ 320.7 58 % Apparel and Flexible Materials Gerber Technology 174.6 32 % Ophthalmic Lens Processing Gerber Coburn 57.5 10 % $ 552.8 100 % For additional financial information about Gerber's operating segments and geographic areas, refer to Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15. "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Certain risks, affecting Gerber's business, including risks associated with Gerber's international operations, are discussed in Item 1A. "Risk Factors." The following business descriptions provide information about Gerber's segments, principal products and services. SIGN MAKING AND SPECIALTY GRAPHICS The Sign Making and Specialty Graphics operating segment includes the Gerber Scientific Products, or "GSP," and the Spandex operating units. These units market printing equipment, software and aftermarket supplies principally to sign makers, screen printers, exhibit and display houses, quick printers and award and trophy producers, as well as to the die making, short run and sample making segments of the packaging industry. Gerber Scientific Products Headquartered in Connecticut, GSP is a provider of computerized sign making and graphic design equipment, packaging equipment, software, aftermarket supplies and related services. GSP's printers, plotters and routers are used to produce indoor and outdoor durable signs. These products, which are integrated through GSP's Matched Technology System™, include computer aided design, or "CAD," and computer aided manufacturing, or "CAM," cutting systems used to produce samples and die boards and to convert short run production for packaging companies in the corrugated and folding carton industries. GSP's target market includes small to medium-sized sign printing shops with annual revenues ranging from $1 million to $3 million, printing chains such as FedEx Kinko's, FASTSIGNS and Signs Now, graphic arts professionals, major corporations and government agencies. GSP Equipment, Software and Aftermarket Supplies Digital Imaging Equipment – Inkjet and Thermal Printing Solutions The digital imaging markets continue to evolve as a result of rapid technological advances. In May 2008, GSP launched the GERBER Solara ion™, which represents GSP's latest offering in the wide-format ultraviolet, or "UV," inkjet printer marketplace. This UV printer offers advanced performance in UV inkjet printing by using Gerber's patent pending Cold Fire Cure™ process and GerberCAT™ cationic ink. The Cold Fire Cure process offers material compatibility and extends the life of curing lamps used in UV printing due to the lower energy output and heat generation. GerberCAT cationic ink, which offers a matched print technology engine, enables printing on a wide array of both rigid and flexible substrates with high-quality adhesion, abrasion resistance and color output. The flat-bed construction of the Solara ion allows precision printing quality otherwise available only with more expensive printers. The Solara ion printers are a key new product family for Gerber. Of GSP's total sales in the last three fiscal years, sales of UV printing systems and related products used in printing represented 23 percent in fiscal 2009, 3 percent in fiscal 2008 and 10 percent in fiscal 2007. While market demand for inkjet printers is outpacing that of thermal printers, Gerber still maintains a leadership position in the thermal imaging products line, and believes that there is a continuing role for thermal imaging printers due to their ease of use and the outdoor durability of the signs produced. In addition, given the large base of thermal printers still in use today, demand for aftermarket supplies used in thermal printing, though declining, remains strong. The GERBER EDGE® FX digital printing 5 system is an easy-to-use solution for sign makers, screen printers and other graphic professionals seeking to quickly produce highly-customized short-run graphics. The EDGE FX uses heat and pressure to infuse durable resin pigments to more than 30 different printing material substrates, produces graphics with high-quality images, and dries instantly, with no waste, odor, harmful emissions, or need for ventilation. Of GSP's total sales in the last three fiscal years, sales of thermal imaging systems and related products used in printing represented 13 percent in fiscal 2009, 17 percent in fiscal 2008 and 21 percent in fiscal 2007. Plotters and Routers GSP's plotters are used to cut signs or graphic forms from vinyl substrates. Routers are used to make 3-D cuts in other signage materials, such as wood or plastic. GSP's plotter products include the enVision™ 375, which is a rugged tabletop sprocket-fed plotter designed for rigorous everyday use and a series of 24-, 48- and 62-inch plotters that employ Gerber P2C™, an optical positioning system that achieves high levels of accuracy. The Gerber M Series is a cutting system designed for wide-format graphics that provides manufacturers of graphics, signs and other rigid and flexible printed media with versatile tools to cut, rout and crease a wide variety of substrates. Packaging Systems GSP's CAD and CAM cutting systems are used to produce samples and die boards and to convert short-run production for packaging companies in the corrugated and folding carton industries. Products consist of sample making and digital die cutting systems, die tool production systems and rotary and flat rule die processing systems, which incorporate knife, laser and waterjet cutting technologies. Software GSP software is used to design signs and specialty graphics, as well as to manage printing and cutting processes. Although GSP offers several proprietary software programs dependent upon customer needs, OMEGA™ 3.0 is GSP's most powerful design and production software and represents the most significant software product within this segment. Aftermarket Supplies GSP offers a wide range of aftermarket supplies such as color foils (which is the "ink" used in thermal printers), adhesive-backed vinyls, banner materials and inks for inkjet printers. Cartridges include the GerberGauge™ marking system, a proprietary system that uses radio-frequency identification, or "RFID," technology to estimate the remaining foil length on cartridges to help prevent unexpected run-out, wasted foil and material, while improving workflow. GSP also offers a variety of durable and flexible UV curable inks for inkjet products. Distribution GSP distributes its products, supplies and services globally through the Spandex distribution network, its Canadian distribution business and independent distributors and networks. In the United States, GSP uses distributors that operate in 42 states. None of GSP's external distributors individually accounted for sales representing more than 10 percent of Gerber's consolidated sales for fiscal 2009. GSP has long-standing relationships with the majority of its distributors. Historically, there has not been any material disruption in sales operations as the result of the termination of key distributors. Gerber believes that the time needed to replace any GSP distributor generally would not exceed eight weeks. Raw Materials GSP obtains critical materials from three primary suppliers and original equipment manufacturers, or "OEMs." GSP purchases cast vinyl from a supplier with which GSP has a long-standing relationship. GSP purchases color foils for a wide range of industries from a leading European supplier of roll foils. Thermal transfer print heads used in GSP's imaging systems are purchased from a Japanese supplier. GSP does not currently have written supply agreements with these suppliers. No other suppliers are considered significant. 6 Of its total revenue in the last three fiscal years, GSP derived 30 percent in fiscal 2009, 29 percent in fiscal 2008 and 36 percent in fiscal 2007 from United States shipments of cast vinyl. GSP generated 13 percent of its total revenue from sales of thermal transfer foils in both fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 and 15 percent in fiscal 2007. Sales of products incorporating thermal transfer print heads accounted for 3 percent of sales in fiscal 2009 and 5 percent of sales in both fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007. GSP has not experienced any significant delays in obtaining raw materials from any of its suppliers. If any existing supplier relationships were terminated, GSP estimates that it could obtain adequate supplies of the applicable raw materials from new suppliers or through internal development within twelve months following the termination date, although some brand name marketing advantages would be difficult to replace. In the near term, Gerber does not foresee any potential lack of availability of critical products from any particular source that would have a material adverse effect on its overall business. Competition GSP faces competition in almost all markets for its products, particularly with respect to the sale of inkjet products and aftermarket supplies. GSP principally competes on the basis of the comprehensiveness of its product line, product quality and availability, service and pricing. GSP believes it has a competitive advantage by offering its customers a complete start-to-finish system for digital design, printing and production products and comprehensive engineered solutions for durable vinyl-cutting, digital color printing and dimensional signage needs. Spandex Spandex is a leading trade supplier in its geographic markets to the sign making and specialty graphics industries, with a significant focus on the outdoor durable market segment. Spandex specializes in the marketing, sales, distribution and support of digital printing, cutting and routing systems, related aftermarket supplies, and aluminum sign systems. Headquartered in Belgium, Spandex represents many of the leading brands in the industry and serves approximately 25,000 customers in 16 countries within Europe, as well as in Australia and New Zealand. Spandex also sells products in several other countries through a sub-distribution network. Distribution Relationships Spandex acts as a distributor, in some instances on an exclusive basis, for a number of different equipment and aftermarket suppliers. These suppliers value the scope and capabilities of Spandex's sales and distribution network. Several of these suppliers also employ direct sales forces, which can lead to competition with Spandex's product offerings. Sourced Materials Spandex purchases critical products from various suppliers, including GSP, and OEMs. In some cases, Spandex uses only one source of supply for certain products. Historically, Spandex has not experienced significant difficulties in obtaining timely deliveries of these products. Increased demand or lack of availability for these products in the future could result in shipment delays that might adversely affect Spandex's business. Spandex's management believes that, if required, it could develop alternative sources of supply for the products it sells. In the near term, Spandex's management does not foresee any potential lack of availability of critical products from any particular source that would have a material adverse effect on its overall business. Competition As an international supplier, Spandex competes with both larger and smaller companies, depending on the country and market segment. While Spandex is one of the largest international suppliers in the durable outdoor graphics marketplace, it competes in some geographic markets with companies that are considerably larger than Spandex, including PaperlinX Ltd, Antalis International and Océ N.V. In addition, demand in recent years for digital wide format inkjet and aftermarket supplies has been increasing in the markets served by Spandex, which has led to increased competition from equipment suppliers and aftermarket distributors of these products. Spandex competes on the basis of its market and technical knowledge, supplier relationships and supply chain infrastructure, and a wide array of products and support services. Most of Spandex's customers are small sign shops that find appealing Spandex's ability to meet most of their product needs. Spandex relies heavily on its ability to provide competitive product offerings from both GSP and strategic OEM providers. 7 APPAREL AND FLEXIBLE MATERIALS The Apparel and Flexible Materials operating segment markets its products through the Gerber Technology, or "GT," business unit. GT develops, manufactures, distributes and services sophisticated design and cutting equipment and software to over 20,500 customers in the apparel and flexible materials industry. GT’s products, which integrate product life cycle management, CAD and CAM equipment and software solutions, enhance its customers' manufacturing processes and efficiencies from design through production by reducing turnaround times, material waste and labor costs. GT also provides laser projection systems for composite assembly, prefabricated construction, quality control systems and laser marking and engraving systems. GT offers specialized solutions to manufacturers of sewn and flexible goods for a broad range of end markets, including apparel and retail, transportation interiors, upholstered furniture, aerospace composites and technical textiles. Headquartered in Connecticut, GT maintains regional offices, agents or distributors in over 125 countries. GT engineers, manufactures and distributes its products throughout the Americas, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. GT offers a comprehensive suite of products that can be used by its customers as integrated solutions throughout the design and manufacturing process, including: · conceptual design, advanced CAD pattern-making, and marking or nesting software; · pattern design digitizers and large format plotters; · CAM material spreading and single- and multi-ply cutting systems; · product lifecycle management, or "PLM," and product data management, or "PDM," software, which are enterprise-wide applications used by apparel brands and retailers for global management of product activities and which facilitate communication of measurement specifications, construction details, costing and bill of material information among apparel and other flexible materials designers, raw materials suppliers, makers of the materials and retailers; · precision laser-based templating, inspection, marking and engraving solutions; · aftermarket supplies, including spare parts and consumable materials; and · customer training, technical support and comprehensive maintenance and specialized support services. GT's revenue by industry segment as a percentage of its total sales for fiscal 2009 is shown below. The mid-year fiscal 2009 acquisitions resulted in a higher percentage of revenue derived from industrial and aerospace composites markets than in previous years. Apparel and retail 57 % Industrial and aerospace composites 27 % Transportation interiors 10 % Furniture 6 % GT's customers include market leaders in each of its four key industry segments. None of GT's customers accounted for more than 10 percent of GT's sales for fiscal 2009. The migration of apparel manufacturing to lower labor cost areas has displaced some opportunities for GT equipment sales in North America and Europe. These markets, however, continue to represent a significant recurring revenue source for GT due to the large installed base of GT's products, which require service, software subscriptions and aftermarket supplies. GT also continues to experience demand from North America and Europe for apparel design and development PLM and PDM software and GT's industrial (non-apparel) software and hardware solutions, including its technical textile, composite material and leather cutting systems. GT believes that the migration of flexible materials manufacturing to lower labor cost areas and the emergence of new market and supply-chain trends within the apparel industry provide GT with continuing growth opportunities. To capitalize on these trends, GT has developed a sales and service network in Asia, including 25 sales and service centers in China as of April 30, 2009. GT expects to derive much of its future revenue growth from sales to markets in Asia, particularly China, India and Vietnam. China is GT's fastest growing market and the world's largest apparel-producing nation. Sales within greater China accounted for $18.5 million of GT's fiscal 2009 revenue and $30.5 million of GT's fiscal 2008 revenue. Gerber believes that the decline in fiscal 2009 revenue within greater China was attributable to economic factors, as China apparel manufacturers were significantly impacted by the global recession and appear to have slowed capital equipment investments, and is not indicative of a change in GT's market share. During September 2008, Gerber acquired Gamma Computer Tech Co., Ltd., or "Gamma," in China for a purchase price of 8 approximately $5.1 million. Gamma is a manufacturer of equipment for the apparel and flexible materials markets. This acquisition is expected to expand the Apparel and Flexible Materials segment position within China and facilitate lower cost manufacturing of selected products for the apparel production segment. During October 2008, Gerber acquired Virtek Vision International, Inc., or "Virtek," for a purchase price of approximately $29.0 million. Virtek is a manufacturer of precision laser-based templating, inspection, marking and engraving solutions for industrial material with operations located primarily in Canada and Germany. Virtek serves customers in the prefabricated construction, transportation, metalworking, tool, die and mold making industries worldwide. Virtek extends GT's capabilities to provide an integrated solution in industrial applications such as aerospace, transportation and other composite parts manufacturing. Gerber intends to promote Virtek's products and services to customers in the flexible materials business through Gerber's global distribution, service and customer relationships. Equipment and Software GT's products enable users to accelerate product development, product management, design, costing, manufacturing and merchandising activities. GT's products also enhance product quality and reduce staffing needs and time-to-market. CAM Material Spreading and Cutting Systems GT's spreading and cutting equipment is designed to reduce labor costs of previously labor-intensive functions, thereby minimizing material waste and assembly error. GT's line of GERBERspreaders™ delivers tension-free spreading of materials at speeds of up to 100 meters per minute. Its GERBERsaver™ Flaw Management System enhances material utilization during the spreading process and its InfoMark™ Synchron offers an integrated system for automatic printing, positioning and application of labels during the spreading process. The XLs line of GERBERspreaders is designed for apparel manufacturers in developing markets that require effective automation solutions at affordable prices. GT's cutting systems increase operating efficiencies in soft goods manufacturing by cutting parts from single and multiple layers of flexible materials, such as textiles, leathers, vinyls, plastics, fiberglass and advanced composites, with a high degree of accuracy. GT's cutting systems perform faster and more efficiently and with greater precision than the traditional methods of hand-cutting or die-cutting. The GT cutters are offered in single-, medium- and high-ply models, marketed as GERBERcutter®. All of GT's GERBERcutters have "Cut Path Intelligence" to control cutting speed for enhanced quality and output and high efficiency vacuum systems to hold material firmly in place to improve cut quality and reduce power consumption. GT also offers a high-ply cutting system, the XLc7000, which is similar to the XLs spreader, but is specifically designed for apparel manufacturers in developing markets that require effective automation solutions at affordable prices. In the first quarter of fiscal 2009, GT launched the Z7 GERBERcutter, the first in the new Z series premium line of multi-ply cutting systems, which combines precision with efficiency in cutting demanding materials to tight tolerances. The Z7 is designed to help manufacturers meet continuous improvement initiatives and pressures within the supply chain for quality and turn time with more stringent requirements for reporting of performance metrics. The target industries for the Z7 include automotive, industrial and composite markets. GT also offers the Taurus™ and Taurus X Series automated leather cutting systems with hide scanning, flaw capture and multiple nesting package capabilities. These cutters appeal to industrial customers, particularly in the transportation sector. Plotters Customers use GT's plotters to produce accurate design prints on industrial-width paper for placement on fabric or other materials to provide information relative to cutting and downstream operations. GT markets the Infinity™ family of thermal inkjet plotters, designed with input from Hewlett-Packard, and a range of pen plotter systems. GT also has designed and engineered the Infinity AE, an advanced inkjet plotter, which is produced in China for sale in China. 9 Virtek Laser Projectors Customers in both aerospace composite and prefabricated construction industries use Virtek’s LPS7 laser projectors optimized for laser templating applications. Available with red or green lasers and in short-range or long-range versions, LPS7 projectors are capable of projecting very accurate templates on either flat or three-dimensional surfaces. Advanced laser and optical components offer higher quality projection patterns, greater projection speeds and more reliable performance than are provided by many competing products. The sealed, durable enclosure allows the projectors to operate in demanding work environments. Virtek LaserQC Virtek LaserQC products quickly perform inspection for sheet metal, gasket manufacturing and other industries producing flat parts. Often located next to computer numerical controlled, or "CNC," equipment, the operator simply places a part on the scan table and clicks on the Scan icon. As the laser scans the part, the outline appears in real time on the computer screen. In seconds, the scanned part is automatically compared to the corresponding CAD file, with any variances outside pre-set tolerances highlighted in color. FOBA Marking Equipment Laser marking systems of the Vario series of turn-key integrated laser marking units are modular-designed and can be equipped according to specific customer requirements. Features of Vario systems can include a fixed work table with a pneumatic lifting door to a rotating table with a turning bulkhead wall or customer-specific special machine features. GT also offers the DP series of marking systems for integration into manufacturing lines or for customized solutions. FOBA Engraving Equipment G-series machines provide tool and mold makers with an alternative and supplement to electrical discharge machining for economical processing of fine contours in a single working cycle. All tool steels and ceramics, without any hardness restriction, can be machined with a standard high quality of surface roughness. Software GT offers the following major software product lines: Product Lifecycle Management Software PLM software is an enterprise-wide tool for managing and improving global product development. Retailers, brand marketers, suppliers and factories adopt PLM solutions to speed products from concept to market, which is critically important in the apparel industry due to the increasingly shorter fashion cycles in this industry. PLM enables web-based collaboration and global schedule management throughout the fashion lifecycle. PLM allows precise and secure, real-time communications of product information from pre-production to retail, which reduces supply-chain communications errors and lowers development costs. Fashion Lifecycle Management®, or "FLM," is GT's brand for PLM, designed to accelerate products to market with configurable workflow functionality. FLM allows designers and stores to shrink their concept-to-cash cycle time. Product Data Management Software PDM software systems reduce lead times, increase the accuracy of prototyping and improve the quality of information flow along the production cycle chain. Design and manufacturing processes are increasingly occurring at geographically separate locations, increasing the likelihood for communication errors. PDM communication software enables customers to reduce the margin of contractor error and delivery delays, increase product quality and help deliver products to market more quickly. GT's PDM software solution has been implemented by over 1,200 customers worldwide, which hold more than 19,000 PDM software licenses. GT's development team continually enhances and refines its software products to improve efficiency and usability. GT released its latest PDM software, WebPDM™ V5.3, during fiscal 2009. 10 Conceptual Design Software GT offers a number of design software programs to speed product time-to-market while reducing design costs. Its AccuMark™ V-Stitcher is a 3-D visualization solution that allows true-to-life garment design, fitting and merchandising. Users are able to streamline their product development process, share designs over the Internet and reduce the number of physical samples that must be created prior to finalizing a production model. With Vision Fashion Studio™, a design software system, designers are able to sketch or scan styles and conceptualize potential designs using an array of electronic tools and color palettes. The software also enables the design of custom fabrics, allows the rework of prints on screen and permits users to create catalogues and perform other merchandising functions digitally. CAD Pattern-Making and Marking and Nesting Software Under the AccuMark® brand, GT provides pattern-making software to the apparel, transportation interiors, furniture, industrial fabrics and composites industries. AccuMark automates the design and pattern-making, pattern-grading (sizing), marker-making and nesting functions. In the apparel industry, AccuMark pattern design and grading software is used to draft and digitize new patterns and replicate existing garments. In addition, the software enables the automatic generation of markers that enhance the efficiency of material utilization prior to the cutting process. GT's AccuNest® software for high volume manufacturers automatically creates layouts to eliminate excess material between parts and can provide users with cost savings in fabric utilization for existing and new markers. Virtek LaserEdge Software The Virtek LaserEdge software for aerospace composite and other assembly applications can be fully operational quickly. Controlling one or more LPS7 projectors with one computer, the system projects the exact location and 3-D outline of each ply directly onto the contoured tool surface. Virtek TrussLine Software The Virtek TrussLine laser projection software is marketed to the prefabricated construction industry. Controlling one or more LPS7 projectors with one computer, the system projects the exact location and 2-D outline of the truss to be built onto the work surface, highlighting the position and shape of all truss joints and connector plates to lower per unit costs. For steel applications, the system projects the number of fasteners required at each joint location. This application reduces training time for prefabricated steel and wood truss manufacturing, thereby enhancing the productivity of less experienced workers. FOBAGRAF Laser Control Software FOBAGRAF software supports many sophisticated features for the manipulation of graphic images and other data items used in the production marking process. The software supports the importation of many standard format graphic images. Distribution GT's products are sold domestically and internationally through both a worldwide direct distribution and service network and through independent agents and distributors. GT believes that its longstanding agent and distributor network provides a significant benefit in certain markets, as these networks are staffed with knowledgeable individuals who speak the local language and have a thorough understanding of the local market. Management continues to evaluate this distribution strategy compared to alternative distribution models in light of market conditions and other relevant considerations. Raw Materials GT purchases materials, such as computers, computer peripherals, electronic parts and equipment, from numerous suppliers. Many of these materials are incorporated directly into GT's manufactured products, while others require additional processing. In some cases, GT uses only one supplier for certain materials. Historically, GT has not experienced significant difficulties in timely deliveries of these materials. Increased demand or future lack of materials availability could result in production delays that might adversely affect GT's business. GT's management believes that, if required, it could develop alternative suppliers for 11 its material requirements. In the near term, GT's management does not foresee that a potential lack of materials, components or supplies availability from any particular source would have a material adverse effect on its overall business. Competition GT is a leading provider in its geographic markets of computer-controlled material spreading and cutting systems, PLM and PDM solutions and pattern-making, grading and nesting software. GT faces intense competition in each of these product lines from companies based in Europe, including Lectra, and in Japan, including Takatori Corporation and Toray Industries, Inc., which are significant suppliers in their respective regions. GT's product range and international distribution network enables GT to support key customer accounts that shift production and sourcing activities around the world. OPHTHALMIC LENS PROCESSING The Ophthalmic Lens Processing segment is operating through Gerber Coburn, or "GC," a leading provider of computer integrated optical lens processing systems in its geographic markets. Headquartered in Connecticut, GC designs, manufactures, markets and services equipment, software and supplies used in processing prescription eyewear. GC serves wholesale lens production laboratories, retail eyewear chains and independent eye care professionals, such as ophthalmologists, optometrists and opticians, who perform certain in-office lens processing. GC's product line includes computer integrated equipment for all lens production steps such as blocking, fining, polishing, coating, finishing and inspecting; start-to-finish lab management software; and the related supplies, or "consumables," used in lens processing. GC continues to expand its aftermarket supplies product line because its large installed base of products, which are used by more than 7,000 customers in approximately 75 countries, provide it with a significant recurring revenue opportunity through aftermarket supplies sales and service. Furthermore, Gerber believes substantial growth opportunities are emerging in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America as these countries continue to develop the infrastructure to perform sophisticated eye exams for a growing middle class. Gerber believes that this consumer group is likely to seek more features for prescription eyewear, such as anti-reflective coatings and multi-focal lenses, which is expected to create additional demand for the types of products offered by GC. The production of free-form (or digital) lenses represents a growing trend within the ophthalmic industry. Free-form lens processing allows the production of a progressive (no-line multi-focal) lens surface through machining rather than casting or molding processes, and enables the lens laboratory to provide other value-added characteristics to the lens. GC's Advanced Lens Processing System, which was introduced in fiscal 2009, seeks to meet demand resulting from this market trend. Equipment and Software GC's comprehensive product solutions reduce the number of production steps, laboratory staff training time, operating errors and lens breakage. These products also facilitate improved lens quality, lower manufacturing costs per square foot, a clean work environment and the elimination of toxic metals and coolants. GC's equipment offerings consist of lens surfacing equipment, coating equipment, finishing equipment and lens inspection equipment. GC's product line takes into account the two methods used for production of prescription lenses. One method consists of the use of a "stock lens," in which the initial casting or injection molding of the lens produces the desired prescription. This method requires that only the finishing operations be performed. The first step of the finishing operation is blocking, in which a holding device, known as a "block," is oriented and attached to the lens. The shape of the frame is "traced" in a tracer that digitizes the measurements and then communicates them to an edger. This blocked lens is then "finished," or edged, to match the shape of the frame onto which it will be mounted. The second method of producing prescription lenses starts with a semi-finished lens blank. The blank is surface blocked and has a curve "generated," or cut, into the lens by a generator to create the desired prescription. The lens generating process creates a lens that is geometrically correct, but not optically clear. The fining process uses abrasive pads to eliminate cutting marks produced during the generating step. The polishing operation uses a flock-based pad and slurry-based abrasive to make the lens optically clear. The lens is then de-blocked and made ready for coating or finishing. 12 Surfacing Equipment GC offers a range of computer-controlled surfacing equipment to create precise curves on the lenses. GC's lens surface generators and related products satisfy the needs of labs of different sizes that process various types of materials. GC offers the DTL Generator with Cut-to-Polish and Free-Form options, which is an expandable high-speed system targeted at the wholesale laboratory market. GC also offers blocking products, including the AcuBlock™ Eclipse Surface Blocker™, designed for high throughput manufacturing environments. GC markets the CMX-50 cylinder machine, a finer and polisher, to the wholesale laboratory market and the Acuity, a finer and polisher that appeals to the retail segment of the market. The MAAT Polishing System is offered for cut-to-polish and free-form lens production. GC's Advanced Lens Processing System, or "ALPS," includes the DTL Generator with Cut-to-Polish and Free-Form options and the MAAT Polishing System, which enables free-form lens production to create the progressive (no-line multi-focal) lens surface through machining rather than casting or molding processes, and enables the lens laboratory to provide other value-added characteristics to the lens. In one complete system, ALPS offers options for processing all lens prescriptions from high-speed traditional fining and polishing and cut-to-polish lens processing, as well as digital free-form lens processing. Compared with conventional methods, cut-to-polish and digital lens processing are more economical because no fining or polishing pads are needed and traditional hard tools are less likely to be needed. ALPS' computer-controlled functions eliminate most lens handling, resulting in reduced labor costs and lens breakage and a high level of visual quality. Coating Equipment GC's scratch-resistant coating process eliminates waste and reduces operator exposure to coating materials. For small laboratories and retail applications, GC offers the Stratum Lens Coating System. Finishing Equipment In collaboration with Essilor International, S.A., an ophthalmic products manufacturer, GC distributes a wide range of retail finishing equipment such as the Kappa system. GC also provides finishing systems with drilling capabilities, such as the Kappa CT/CTD system. GC offers the Esprit 3D Lens Finishing System for international markets. For finishing in the laboratory environment, GC distributes industrial and automated products, including the Weco Verifier and the 950 and 990 Blockless Edging Systems. Full Service Laboratory Equipment GC sells an ophthalmic lens processing system, Premier Lab™, designed for retail lens processing. Premier Lab is a compact, full service laboratory for processing CR39, high-index and polycarbonate lenses. A Premier Lab includes a frame tracer, blocking system, surface generator, finer and polisher, coating system, finishing system and related software. Software GC's software is an important component of its comprehensive solutions, especially for small laboratories. Software offerings owned or distributed by GC range from simple remote tracing with Innovations Lite™ software to a more comprehensive software package such as Innovations™ Standard software. GC provides on-site software installation, training and support in all of its geographic markets through its internal network of local service specialists. During fiscal 2008, Gerber sold its rights to the Innovations software product and retained the right to distribute the product on a worldwide basis. Distribution GC distributes its products directly in the United States and Canada. In its other international markets, GC uses a combination of a direct sales force and independent agents to maximize geographic coverage. GC also participates in industry trade shows in the Americas, Australia, Europe and Asia, which often provide it with a significant source of new sales leads. None of GC's customers accounted for ten percent of Gerber's fiscal 2009 revenue. 13 Raw Materials GC purchases materials from numerous suppliers and acts as a distributor for third-party OEM products. Many of the purchased materials are incorporated directly into GC's manufactured products, while others require additional processing. GC has not experienced significant difficulties in obtaining timely deliveries from suppliers or OEM providers. Increased demand for these materials or products or future lack of availability could result in production delays that might adversely affect GC's business. GC's management believes that, if required, it could develop alternative sources of supply for the materials and sourced products used. In the near term, GC's management does not foresee that a potential lack of materials, components, supplies or product availability from any particular source would have a material adverse effect on its overall business. Competition GC's principal competitors in the high volume laboratory market segment are Satisloh GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Essilor International, S.A. and Schneider GmbH. Principal competitors in the retail and eye care professionals segment are Nidek Inc., Briot International and AIT Industries. GC competes principally on the basis of product innovation and comprehensiveness, onsite service support, and distribution capabilities. GENERAL BUSINESS INFORMATION BACKLOG Gerber's backlog by operating segments as of April 30, 2009 and 2008 is presented in the table below. Backlog as of April 30, 2009 included $1.6 million of Virtek's backlog, which is reflected in the Apparel and Flexible Materials segment. The entire backlog as of April 30, 2009 is expected to be delivered in fiscal 2010. April 30, In thousands 2009 2008 Sign Making and Specialty Graphics $ 1,967 $ 3,462 Apparel and Flexible Materials 22,894 33,770 Ophthalmic Lens Processing 1,200 1,440 $ 26,061 $ 38,672 Gerber's backlog decreased as of April 30, 2009 from April 30, 2008. This decrease reflected a general decline in the current global business environment caused by adverse macro economic conditions and the related uncertainty as to when these conditions will improve. As a result of these conditions, Gerber is unable to determine when its backlog will return to more typical levels. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS Gerber's success depends, in part, on its intellectual property rights relating to its products, production processes and other operations. Gerber relies on a combination of trade secret, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, trademark and copyright laws, to protect its proprietary rights. Intellectual property rights may be challenged by third parties and may not exclude competitors from using the same or similar technologies, brands or works. Gerber owns and has applications pending for a number of patents in the United States and other countries covering many of its products and systems. Gerber's existing patents expire at various dates through 2026. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has granted Gerber federal registrations for many of its trademarks. Federal registration of trademarks is effective for as long as Gerber continues to uses the trademarks and renew their registrations. Gerber does not generally register any of its copyrights with the U.S. Copyright Office, but relies on the protection afforded to such copyrights by the U.S. Copyright Act. That law provides protection to authors of original works, whether published or unpublished, and whether registered or unregistered. Gerber enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees and some third parties and limits access to and distribution of its proprietary information. 14 SEASONALITY GSP and Spandex's sales of equipment and aftermarket supplies are affected by seasonality in the sign industry, especially during the fall and spring periods, when demand customarily peaks. Sales by GT and GC are not significantly impacted by seasonality trends. Gerber typically realizes the largest portion of its annual revenue during the fourth fiscal quarter. As a result of the worsening economic downturn and credit market crisis beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, however, the first quarter of fiscal 2009 accounted for the highest quarterly revenue generated in fiscal 2009. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Developing new and innovative products and broadening the application of established products are important to Gerber's operating results. Research and development expenses were $22.4 million for fiscal 2009, $26.2 million for fiscal 2008 and $24.3 million for fiscal 2007. Gerber develops and designs new products to assist its customers in reducing costs and improving efficiencies to enhance and maintain their end market positions. FINANCING ACTIVITIES Gerber has agreements with major financial services institutions, or "lessors," to assist Gerber's customers, or "lessees," in obtaining lease financing to purchase Gerber's equipment. Equipment is typically leased for periods of two to six years. The equipment sold collateralizes the lease receivables. In the event of default by the lessee, Gerber has a liability to the financial services institution under recourse provisions once the institution repossesses the equipment from the lessee and returns it to Gerber. In most cases, Gerber then can resell the equipment, the proceeds of which are expected to cover a majority of the liability to the financial services institution. As of April 30, 2009, the amount of lease receivables financed under these agreements between the external financial services institutions and the lessees was $7.8 million. Gerber's net exposure related to recourse provisions under these agreements was approximately $3.5 million. EMPLOYEES Gerber had approximately 2,179 employees as of April 30, 2009, of which 68 percent were based outside of the United States. GOVERNMENT REGULATION None of Gerber's principal businesses is directly subject to government regulation that is material to that business. WEBSITES AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Gerber maintains a website at www.gerberscientific.com. Gerber provides access on its website, free of charge, to its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, in accordance with Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of Gerber's website are not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the SEC maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed by Gerber electronically. The public may read and copy any materials that Gerber files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 Company-Wide Risks If Gerber is unable to continue to develop and commercialize new technologies and products, it may experience a decrease in demand for its products or its products could become obsolete. Gerber believes that its ability to develop or acquire new technologies is crucial to the company's success. Gerber may not be successful in enhancing existing products or developing or acquiring new products and technologies that will achieve desired or expected levels of market acceptance. New products may require incremental start-up costs associated with new product launches. In addition, new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. Gerber's operating results could be adversely affected if it is unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if it introduces products late to the market, thereby resulting in missed opportunities in dynamic, fast-moving markets or resulting in a failure to achieve market acceptance. Any failure by Gerber to manage adequately future new product introductions could adversely affect Gerber's sales of existing products. As new or enhanced products are introduced, Gerber must successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers' ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers' demands. Gerber's businesses could suffer as a result of manufacturers' or suppliers' inability or unwillingness to supply Gerber with systems, parts or aftermarket supplies on time and to specifications. Gerber relies upon domestic and international manufacturers and suppliers for certain hardware and aftermarket supplies, which are manufactured to Gerber's specifications. The inability or unwillingness of a manufacturer or supplier to ship such products in a timely manner or to meet quality standards could cause Gerber to miss customers' delivery date requirements for those products, which could result in the cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, lost customers, product returns or voluntary reductions in purchase prices. Any one of those consequences could have an adverse effect on Gerber's operating results and financial condition. Gerber's reliance on arrangements with original equipment manufacturers to augment its product lines exposes it to risks of non-performance by the OEMs and with lower gross margins associated with sales of OEM products. Gerber continually engages in the development of new and enhanced products in an effort to develop incremental sales and improve gross margins. The industries in which Gerber operates are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. In some periods, Gerber's revenue growth depends on outsourcing arrangements with OEMs to augment its product lines. If OEMs are not able to supply products reliably, in a timely manner, or at a competitive cost, Gerber's business may suffer. Further, the gross margins associated with sales of OEM products tend to be lower than those associated with internally developed products. Gerber may not benefit from its acquisition strategy. As part of Gerber's business strategy, management regularly evaluates opportunities to supplement its internal growth by pursuing targeted acquisitions of other businesses. Gerber may not be successful in identifying and consummating acquisitions or in integrating newly acquired businesses into Gerber's operations. The evaluation of business acquisition opportunities and the integration of acquired businesses pose a number of significant risks, including the following: · the pursuit of ultimately unconsummated acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses could significantly strain management, financial and other resources and divert limited resources from regular operations; · acquisitions may not have an immediate positive impact on Gerber's cash flows or results of operations due to transaction-related expenses or higher operating and administrative expenses that may be incurred during the integration period immediately following the acquisitions; · Gerber may not be able to achieve the synergies and cost savings anticipated to result from any acquisition; 16 · Gerber's operating and financial systems and controls and information services may not be compatible with those of acquired companies or adequate to support integration efforts and any steps taken to improve these systems and controls may not be sufficient; · acquisitions could increase Gerber's need for qualified personnel, who may not be available; and · acquired businesses may have unexpected liabilities and contingencies, which could be significant. Gerber's ability to engage in acquisitions will depend in part on its ability to raise capital, and Gerber may not be able to obtain acquisition financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. Gerber's acquisition strategy also may be constrained by the limited availability of candidates that satisfy Gerber's acquisition criteria. Gerber is subject to currency risks, geopolitical risks and other risks of conducting international operations. Gerber's international operations, including United States export sales, represented approximately 68 percent of consolidated revenue for fiscal 2009. Gerber expects that revenue from international markets will continue to represent a significant portion of total revenue and that it will continue to face risks associated with its international operations. Gerber's export sales are normally transacted in United States dollars, although in some markets, principally Western Europe, sales prices are denominated in local currencies. An increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make Gerber's products more expensive and, therefore, potentially less competitive in foreign markets. For international sales and expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, Gerber is subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Some of the additional risks associated with Gerber's international operations include: · general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls; · potential inflation in the applicable foreign economies; · imposition of or increases in import duties and other tariffs on products; and · imposition of or increases in foreign taxation of earnings and withholding on payments received from subsidiaries. The potential impact of the foregoing risks could be heightened by Gerber's strategy in recent years to expand its international market share and decrease costs by strengthening Gerber's international distribution network, sourcing materials locally and pursuing opportunities to locate its production facilities closer to end-use customers in international markets. Gerber’s level of debt and interest payment obligations may limit its ability to compete and expose it to interest rate risk to the extent of its variable-rate debt. As of April 30, 2009, Gerber had a total of $73.5 million of indebtedness outstanding, including $67.5 million principal amount of borrowings outstanding under its $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility. This substantial level of indebtedness may have important consequences. For example, it may: · make it more difficult for Gerber to satisfy its financial obligations; · require Gerber to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness; · limit Gerber’s ability to react to changes to the economy or in its business or industry; and · place Gerber at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have less indebtedness. Because a substantial portion of the borrowings under Gerber’s revolving credit facility accrues interest at variable rates, Gerber’s interest expense could increase if interest rates increase and it is not able to manage its related exposure through derivative financial instruments. Gerber may be unable to comply with the financial covenants in its credit agreement unless it continues to generate sufficient operating cash flows. Gerber’s ability to comply with the financial covenants under the credit agreement for its $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility depends primarily on its ability to generate sufficient operating cash flows. Under its credit agreement, Gerber is 17 subject to a maximum funded debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, a maximum capital expenditures covenant and a minimum asset coverage covenant, all as defined for purposes of the credit agreement. Industry conditions and financial, business and other factors, including those Gerber identifies as risk factors in this report, will affect its ability to generate the cash flows it needs to meet those financial covenants. Gerber’s failure to meet the covenants could result in a default and acceleration of repayment of the indebtedness under its revolving credit facility. The credit agreement contains subjective acceleration clauses under which, upon the occurrence of a change in Gerber's financial condition, business or operations considered by the lenders to be materially adverse to Gerber, the lenders may cause amounts due under the agreement to become immediately due and payable. If the maturity of Gerber’s indebtedness were accelerated, it would not have sufficient funds to pay such indebtedness. In such event, Gerber’s lenders would be entitled to proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness, which includes substantially all of Gerber’s assets, to the extent permitted by the credit agreement and applicable law. Covenants under Gerber’s credit agreement may restrict its future operations. Gerber’s senior secured revolving credit facility agreement imposes operating and financial restrictions that limit Gerber’s discretion on some business matters, which could make it more difficult for Gerber to expand, finance its operations, pursue its acquisition strategy, and engage in other business activities that may be in its interest. These restrictions, which include compliance with financial covenants, limit the ability of Gerber and its subsidiaries to: · incur additional indebtedness, create liens and make investments; · pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase capital stock, and issue or sell stock of subsidiaries; and · engage in sale-leaseback transactions, sell assets and engage in mergers, sales, acquisitions and consolidations. Gerber may incur indebtedness in addition to the foregoing indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness it may incur in the future could subject Gerber to similar or even more restrictive conditions. If Gerber is unable to raise additional capital, its ability to expand its business and to meet its obligations may be limited. The development and expansion of Gerber’s business will require substantial investment. If Gerber chooses to accelerate the expansion of its business or undertake significant acquisitions of other businesses, Gerber may require additional capital. If Gerber cannot obtain additional equity or debt financing for such purposes on acceptable terms, the company could be at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with significant capital or the ability to raise significant capital for expansion. The terms of any financing Gerber does obtain will be restricted by the terms of its existing debt agreements and may be burdensome to the company. Credit market risk could adversely affect Gerber's investments, Gerber's ability to raise additional capital and the ability of its customers and suppliers to obtain financing needed to transact business with Gerber. Distress in credit and financial markets has reduced liquidity and credit availability and increased volatility in prices of securities. Credit market risk could also adversely impact the performance of investments in Gerber's pension plans, resulting in unrealized temporary losses, realized losses, other-than-temporary impairment charges or a decline in the funded status of the pension plan. Investments subject to credit market risk as of April 30, 2009 include investments held on behalf of Gerber's nonqualified supplemental pension plan in rabbi trust and within the Gerber Scientific, Inc. and Participating Subsidiaries Pension Plan. Credit market risk could negatively impact Gerber's lenders' ability and willingness to fund the committed amount under its revolving credit facility. In addition, Gerber’s ability to access the debt and equity markets may be restricted at a time when it would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an adverse effect on Gerber’s flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The disruptions in the financial markets have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the market value of Gerber’s common stock, which could make it more difficult or costly for the company to raise capital through an offering of its equity securities. Credit market risk could negatively impact customers' abilities to obtain external financing to purchase Gerber's products and suppliers' abilities to deliver goods to Gerber in accordance with their commitments. 18 Unforeseen environmental costs may adversely affect Gerber's future earnings. Gerber operates and competes on a global basis and must conform to applicable environmental, health and safety, or "EH&S," laws and regulations wherever the company operates, and in some cases, wherever its products are sold. If Gerber fails to comply with any present or future EH&S laws or regulations, it could incur liabilities, including monetary, civil and criminal penalties and liabilities resulting from the suspension of sales of noncompliant products. EH&S laws and regulations, which generally affect Gerber's manufacturing and warehousing operations, regulate the storage, use, discharge and disposal of chemicals employed in manufacturing products. New and emerging EH&S legislation is aimed at regulating the chemical composition of finished products and establishing requirements for the end-of-life collection, recovery, reuse, recycling, treatment and environmentally sound disposal of the products themselves. Such legislation has recently gone into effect within the European Union and similar legislation for China. As these new EH&S laws and regulations emerge across the global community, it can be difficult to assess how they will be interpreted, implemented and enforced by regulators within the various countries and jurisdictions, and to predict the potential costs of noncompliance. Uncertainty continues to exist with respect to some effective European Union legislation. One European Union directive restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in some electrical and electronic equipment, while another directive mandates requirements in the collection, reuse, recycling, treatment and environmentally sound disposal of certain electrical and electronic equipment at the end of its useful life. If alleged to be in noncompliance with this or other European Union directives affecting finished products, Gerber could be required to pay significant legal fees in defense of its positions and, if unsuccessful, could be required to suspend sales of noncompliant products within the relevant European Union member states. The suspension of product sales could cause the breach of contractual obligations and result in Gerber being directly or indirectly liable for costs, penalties or third-party claims. A sustained finding of noncompliance could additionally require Gerber to incur significant expenses associated with the redesign or reengineering of products or manufacturing processes, or incur expenses associated with the possible recall of any noncompliant product or the management of historical waste products. Gerber may not protect effectively its intellectual property. Gerber's operational and legal controls to help to secure its intellectual property may not prove to be effective in all circumstances. Gerber may not be able to protect key intellectual property, particularly in some international markets in which it operates. Because certain of Gerber's manufacturing operations are located outside of the United States, some of Gerber's patented products may be reverse-engineered and rebuilt by a local competitor. In some countries, such as China, Gerber's intellectual property rights may not be legally protected. Gerber's businesses are subject to fluctuations in operating results due to general economic conditions, specific economic conditions in the industries in which Gerber operates and other external forces. Gerber's businesses and operations are subject to the following factors, among others: · changes in general economic conditions and specific conditions in industries in which Gerber's businesses operate that can result in the deferral or reduction of purchases by end-use customers; · changes in the level of global corporate spending on technologies due to such economic conditions; · the effects of terrorist activity and international conflicts, which could lead to business interruptions; · the size and timing of significant orders, which can be non-recurring; · product configuration and mix; · market acceptance of new products and product enhancements; · announcements, introductions and transitions of new products by Gerber or Gerber's competitors; · deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by Gerber or Gerber's competitors; · changes in pricing in response to competitive pricing actions; · supply constraints; · the level of expenditures on research and development and sales and marketing programs; · Gerber's ability to achieve targeted cost reductions; · rising interest rates; and · costs associated with excess capacity and/or idle facilities. 19 From time to time, markets for one or more of Gerber's main products may be affected by falling prices, unstable exchange rates, weaker global demand and shifting production bases. During those periods, Gerber's ability to achieve and sustain profitability may depend to a significant degree on its ability to reduce costs (including the costs of sourced materials), manage the supply chain, increase productivity levels, reposition the company within higher value-added market segments, and establish a production presence in geographic areas outside the United States. Gerber's actions in this regard may be inadequate to offset the adverse effects of the foregoing market conditions. Fluctuations in costs of purchased finished goods, components and aftermarket supplies could negatively affect Gerber's operating results. Gerber depends on finished equipment, component parts and other materials from suppliers to manufacture and distribute the systems sold by the company. Gerber also relies on suppliers to furnish its business units with aftermarket supplies. Fluctuations in the prices of all such goods, whether caused by market demand, shortages, currency exchange rates, or other factors, could adversely affect the cost basis for the production, delivery or maintenance of Gerber's products and adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Any inability of Gerber's principal business units to compete effectively would harm Gerber's operating performance and prospects. Competition has intensified in recent years within each market segment in which Gerber operates. If Gerber's business units are unable to continue to implement their strategies to lower costs, enhance the rate of product development, stimulate revenue growth, expand the geographic reach of their operations and leverage their brand names and distribution networks, Gerber may experience a decline in operating results and a deterioration in its financial condition and cash flows. Any significant impairment of Gerber's goodwill would lead to a decrease in Gerber's assets and reduction in Gerber's net operating performance. Approximately 21 percent of Gerber's assets consisted of goodwill as of April 30, 2009. If Gerber makes changes in its business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect its business operations, Gerber may be forced to record an impairment charge, which would lead to decreased assets and reduced net operating performance. Gerber tests goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicated that impairment had occurred, Gerber would record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of goodwill and the implied fair value of goodwill in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill for impairment requires Gerber to make various assumptions, including significant estimates about its future performance and cash flows. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations and their future operating performance, existing or new product market acceptance, changes in competition or changes in technologies. Changes in key assumptions about Gerber's business or actual performance compared with those assumptions and Gerber's future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more reporting units, which may result in an impairment charge. Risks Relating to Gerber's Sign Making and Specialty Graphics Segment Unless GSP enhances and diversifies its product lines and accelerates the pace of new product development, it risks a loss of market share and declining operating results. Gerber Scientific Products must enhance and diversify its product lines to make sign and specialty graphics production more efficient and cost effective. GSP must also respond to the transition of sign shops to digital printing systems and the impact of this transition on GSP's sales of thermal transfer equipment and consumables. Product development may be outpaced by advances in inks, substrate materials or print head technology that could alter the product preferences of end-use customers in a way that could adversely affect the level of market acceptance of GSP's future equipment offerings. If aftermarket suppliers decide to sell to its customers directly, Gerber's operating results would be adversely affected. Most aftermarket products are supplied by large industry suppliers on an OEM basis. Although Gerber believes there are alternative sources of supply, GSP and Spandex would compete with its current suppliers if current suppliers decided to sell 20 directly to Gerber's customers, which could adversely affect this segment's operations. The non-renewal of annual distribution agreements or competition by any of GSP's key United States distributors with GSP could adversely affect GSP's operating results. GSP derives a significant percentage of its revenue from its principal United States distributors. GSP's results could be negatively affected by the non-renewal of some of its distribution agreements with these distributors and by any action by the distributors to compete directly with GSP in the distribution of inkjet imaging products. If Gerber does not identify, distribute and adequately service the products sought by its end-use customers and distributors, its market position and operating results may suffer. GSP, as an original equipment manufacturer, and Spandex, as a distributor, must respond to the evolving product needs of their end-use customers. A failure to meet customer requirements could negatively affect this segment's market position and operating results. GSP and Spandex must also ensure that the products are operating correctly and that sales personnel and technicians are properly trained regarding the capabilities and calibration of new products. The increased pace of technological advances and the proliferation of new products due to low industry barriers to entry has caused end-use customers to become increasingly dependent on Gerber's business units to maintain their expertise and perform these functions. GSP and Spandex must carefully manage relationships with equipment and aftermarket suppliers to ensure that their end-use customers are satisfied with the services they provide. Risks Relating to Gerber's Apparel and Flexible Materials Segment The demand for GT's products can exhibit significant short-term fluctuations due to the sensitivity of its markets to general economic conditions. Demand for products in apparel, textile, furniture and transportation industries, particularly in the United States, Europe, China and Japan, is significantly influenced by external economic factors, conditions and levels of capital investment. In addition, the retail apparel industry is highly focused on inventory management. As a result, GT's business sales volumes can be impacted by significant swings in demand within short time periods. GT may face increased competition from manufacturers of low-end products, which could lead to loss of market share and increased pricing pressure. A failure by GT to respond effectively to increased competition in the sales of low-end products, which may require GT to reduce its production costs, could result in a loss of market share, increased pressure on prices and a reduction in profit margins. The demand for low-end products, particularly CAD systems, has been increasing in growth markets such as China, India and Eastern Europe. Although many of these products have been acquired from local distributors such as GT, which minimizes shipping costs, import duties and import licensing costs, there is risk that these products could be acquired from regional distributors. Further, the introduction by competitors of spreaders and plotters in some developing countries could also result in more intense competition in markets that are expected to provide significant growth opportunities for GT. Risks Relating to Gerber's Ophthalmic Lens Processing Segment GC's quarterly and annual operating results are subject to variation resulting from significant, but sometimes non-recurring, orders from key customers. Although Gerber Coburn has a large installed base of products in use by more than 7,000 customers, its quarterly and annual operating results can vary significantly depending on the timing and level of larger orders for its equipment and aftermarket supplies. These orders may be periodic or non-recurring, and their timing could be impacted by unanticipated changes in the requirements of its customers' end markets. GC's operating results may also vary due to the consolidation occurring within the optical lens industry, which has resulted in a smaller independent laboratory and retailer customer base. 21 If GC does not successfully perform under the terms of its product distribution agreements with key distributors, these agreements may not be renewed. A portion of GC's revenue is derived from products that are developed and manufactured by third parties. GC's distribution rights are contractually tied to achieving specified sales targets and other performance levels. If GC does not achieve the designated performance levels, it could suffer the loss of distribution rights for products that make an important contribution to GC's operating results. GC must successfully respond to market demands for new direct surfacing products or risk the loss of market share to competitors. Demand for direct surfacing products is growing within the ophthalmic laboratory segment. Direct surfacing, sometimes called digital surfacing or free-form lens processing, requires more precise and complex equipment, which GC has developed and which it launched in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. If GC's equipment does not achieve sufficient market acceptance, this segment may lose market share, which could adversely affect Gerber's operating results. GC's aftermarket supplies revenue may be adversely affected by reduced demand at its customer locations and by the closure of retail outlets by its customers. Aftermarket supplies revenue, which includes consumables and spare parts, can be affected by changes in production volume and demand at customers' locations. Decreased consumer demand for eyeglasses could result in lower volume at GC's customers' production facilities, which would adversely impact demand for GC's aftermarket supplies. In addition, several of GC's larger customers operate a significant number of retail outlets, and decreased demand for eyeglasses could lead to the closure of some of these customers' retail stores, which would also reduce demand for GC's aftermarket supplies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 