RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks, including those discussed below. Company-Wide Risks If we are unable to continue to develop and commercialize new technologies and products, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products or our products could become obsolete. Each of our business units operates in highly competitive industries. Our Sign Making and Specialty Graphics and Ophthalmic Lens Processing operating segments are also subject to rapid technological change. Our management believes that the Company's ability to develop or acquire new technologies is crucial to our success. We may not be successful in enhancing existing products or developing or acquiring new products and technologies that will receive desired or expected levels of market acceptance. In addition, new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if our products are introduced late to the market, thereby resulting in missed opportunities in dynamic, fast-moving markets, or do not achieve market acceptance. New product introductions in future periods may also affect the sales of existing products. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers' ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories, and ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers' demands. Delays in product development and introduction could adversely affect the operating results of Gerber Scientific Products and Spandex. The failure of these businesses to respond effectively to the continuing transition of sign shops to lower-cost ink jet imaging systems, calendered vinyls, and digital media systems may lead to a loss of market share that may be difficult to recapture. Delays in product introductions at GSP and Spandex may also lead to a loss of market share that may be difficult to recapture. Local competitors have developed products for sale in Gerber Technology's identified growth markets. A delay by GT in introducing products of its own in these markets may result in a loss of market share or affect GT's ability to achieve market penetration in accordance with its strategy. Delays in product development could disrupt Gerber Coburn's current plans to capture increased business from the higher-volume wholesale optical lens production laboratories and make it more difficult to respond on a timely basis to competitors' product introductions. Our businesses could suffer as a result of a manufacturer's or supplier's inability or unwillingness to supply us with systems, parts, or aftermarket consumables on time and to our specifications. 29 Some hardware and aftermarket consumables products are manufactured to our specifications by both domestic and international manufacturers or suppliers. The inability or unwillingness of a manufacturer or supplier to ship such products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss our customers' delivery date requirements for those items, which could result in the cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, lost customers, product returns, or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our product development efforts generally have longer-term timetables, on occasion necessitating entering into original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") arrangements to augment our product lines. We engage continually in the development of new and enhanced products in an effort to develop incremental sales and improve gross margins. Our industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. In some periods our revenue growth depends on outsourcing arrangements with OEMs to augment product lines. If OEMs are not able to supply products reliably, timely, or at a competitive cost, our business may suffer. Further, the gross margins associated with sales of OEM products tend to be lower than those associated with internally developed products. We are subject to currency risks, geopolitical risks, and other risks as a result of international operations. Our export sales have generally been made in United States dollars, although in some territories, principally Western Europe, we make sales of some products in local currencies. Approximately 69 percent of our revenue was generated in fiscal 2005 by the international operations of our principal business units. An increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and, therefore, potentially less competitive in foreign markets. For international sales and expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Our hedging strategy may not be successful, and currency exchange rate fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We expect that revenue from international markets will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. It is costly to maintain international facilities and operations, promote our brand names internationally, and develop localized systems and support centers. Some of the risks that we face as a result of our international presence include: general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls; potential inflation in the applicable foreign economies; imposition of or increases in import duties and other tariffs on our products; and imposition of or increases in foreign taxation of our earnings and withholding on payments received by us from our subsidiaries. 30 Part of our strategy over the last few years has been to expand our worldwide market share and decrease costs through strengthening our international distribution network and, to some extent, sourcing materials locally. We continue to consider the location of production facilities closer to end-use customers in international markets. This strategy may heighten the potential impact of certain of the foregoing risks. Unforeseen environmental costs could adversely affect our future net earnings. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, and international laws governing the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Many of our products are subject to various federal, state, and international laws governing chemical substances in products, including those regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or our products could be enjoined from entering certain jurisdictions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and pro curement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances that will apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive) and similar legislation currently proposed for China. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict, and liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. We also could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. We record a liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs when we consider the costs to be probable and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated. The European Union has finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The deadline to enact and implement the directive by individual European Union governments generally was August 13, 2004, although extensions were granted to some countries (such legislation, together with the directive, the "WEEE Legislation"). Producers are financially responsible for implementing these responsibilities if they are participating in the market in August 2005; however, at least one member state has announced that it will defer this implementation date until January 2006. Our potential liability resulting from the WEEE Legislation may be substantial. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States and Japan, the cumulative impact of which could be si gnificant. It is our policy to apply strict standards for environmental protection to sites inside and outside the United States, even when we are not subject to local government regulations. The intellectual property of our businesses, though protected by patents and trademarks, may be at risk when we manufacture at foreign locations. 31 As some manufacturing is shifting offshore, there is a risk of having patented products reverse engineered and rebuilt by a local competitor. In some countries, such as China, we cannot guarantee that our intellectual property rights will be protected. Management considers patents and patent applications collectively to be important to its operations and has established controls to help secure intellectual property. Our businesses are subject to fluctuations in operating results because of general economic conditions, specific economic conditions in our industries, and other external forces. Our businesses and operations could be affected by: changes in general economic conditions and specific conditions in our industries, which can result in the deferral or reduction of purchases by end-use customers; changes in the level of global corporate spending on our technologies related to such economic conditions; the effects of terrorist activity and international conflicts, which have led, and in the future could lead, to business interruptions and difficulty in forecasting; the size, timing, and cancellation of significant orders, which can be non-recurring; product configuration and mix; market acceptance of new products and product enhancements; announcements, introductions, and transitions of new products by us or our competitors; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; changes in pricing in response to competitive pricing actions; supply constraints; the level of expenditures on research and development and sales and marketing programs; our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions; rising interest rates; and excess facilities. At various times in recent years, markets for one or more of our main products have been characterized by falling prices, unstable exchange rates, weaker global demand, and shifting production bases. In this type of environment, our ability to achieve and sustain profitability may depend to a great degree on our ability to reduce costs, including the costs of sourced materials, and manage the supply chain, increase productivity levels, reposition ourselves within higher value-added market segments, and establish a production presence in geographic areas outside the United States. 32 Management believes that diversification of our businesses across multiple industries and geographically has helped, and should continue to help, limit the effect of adverse market conditions in any one industry or the economy of any one country or region on our consolidated results. Nonetheless, the effect of adverse conditions in one or more industries or regions may not be limited or offset in the future. Our results are subject to fluctuations in costs of purchased finished goods, components, and aftermarket consumables. We depend on finished equipment, component parts, and other materials from our suppliers to manufacture and distribute the systems we sell. Each of our business units also relies on suppliers for the products it sells directly to its distribution networks. Fluctuations in the prices of such equipment, components, and materials, whether caused by market demand, shortages, currency exchange rates, or other factors, could adversely affect our cost basis for the production, delivery or maintenance of our products and, in turn, have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. If we do not generate the operating cash flow we anticipate, we will be unable to service our indebtedness and comply with our financial and operating covenants. Our ability to make scheduled payments under our credit facilities and our other indebtedness and to comply with our financial and operating covenants will depend primarily on our success in generating substantial operating cash flow. We also are subject to risks in connection with the refinancing of our existing indebtedness. Our credit facilities mature in May 2007. We may not be able to refinance our existing indebtedness and, even if we are able to do so, the terms of a refinancing might not be as favorable as the terms of the existing indebtedness. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, including new equity capital, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all maturing indebtedness at the relevant times. Failure to pay or extend the maturity of such indebtedness could result in our default under or acceleration of our other indebtedness. If the maturity of our indebtedness were accelerated, we may not ha ve sufficient funds to pay such indebtedness. Prevailing interest rates, our operating results and financial condition, or other factors at the time of refinancing, including the possible reluctance of lenders to make loans, may result in higher interest rates and increased interest expense. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and ability to compete. As of April 30, 2005, we had $45.7 million of total long-term indebtedness. Our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it may: 33 increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a significant portion of our borrowings will continue to be at variable rates of interest; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future, if we need them, as a result of financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness; restrict our business activities because of financial and other restrictive covenants in our credit indebtedness; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; and place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have less indebtedness. We face intense competition in each of our principal business units. Although we are a pioneer or a leading company in each of our principal business units, competition has grown in recent years in each market segment in which we operate. Unless our business units can effectively implement their respective strategies to lower costs, enhance the rate of product development, stimulate revenue growth, expand the geographic reach of operations, and leverage their brand name and distribution networks, we may experience a decline in operating results and a deterioration of our financial condition. Risks Relating to the Sign Making and Specialty Graphics Business GSP must enhance and diversify its product lines and accelerate the pace of new product development, or risk a loss of market share and declining operating results. GSP must enhance and diversify its product lines to make sign and specialty graphics production more efficient and cost effective. GSP also must respond to the transition of sign shops to lower-cost ink jet imaging systems, calendered vinyls, and digital media systems. Product development may be outpaced by advances in inks, substrate materials, or printhead technology that could alter what end-use customers deem to be the preferred equipment and, in turn, adversely affect the level of market acceptance of GSP's future equipment offerings. If our powerful aftermarket suppliers decide to sell to our customers directly, our operating results would be adversely affected. Most of our aftermarkets products are supplied on an OEM basis from large, powerful industry suppliers. Although we believe there are alternative sources of supply, we would need to compete with our current suppliers directly, if they decide to sell to our customers directly, which could harm our business. The non-renewal by any of GSP's key United States distributors of their annual distribution agreement could adversely affect GSP's operating results. Because of the significant percentage of GSP's revenues represented by its principal 15 United States distributors, the non-renewal by any of these distributors of its annual distribution agreement could adversely affect GSP's operating results. The transition to ink jet imaging systems and lower-cost calendered vinyls has resulted in a decline in the proportion of the sales of GSP's key distributors represented by GSP products in recent years, which increases the risk of non-renewal by one or more of these distributors. This transition also raises the risk that our distributors may compete directly with us in the distribution of ink jet imaging products as we develop our own ink jet products. 34 If we do not choose the right products to distribute to our end-use customers and distributors and properly test products before distributing them, our market position and operating results may suffer. A failure to meet customer requirements could have a negative effect on our market position and operating results. GSP, as an original equipment manufacturer, and Spandex, as a distributor, must respond to the evolving product needs of their end-use customers. To maintain relationships with customers, Spandex and our United States distributors must distribute the products that meet customer specifications. They must also ensure that the products are properly tested and that sale personnel and technicians are properly trained concerning the capabilities and calibration of new products. In light of the increased pace of technological advances, and the proliferation of new products because of low industry barriers to entry, end-use customers have become increasingly dependent on us to perform these functions and have this expertise. To meet these objectives, we must carefully manage our relationships with our equipment and aftermarket consumables suppliers, making sure that they, too, are satisfied with our performance and services. Risks Relating to the Apparel and Flexible Materials Business GT's markets are inherently tied to regional and global economic conditions and levels of capital investment and, as such, are difficult to predict. The apparel, textile, furniture, and transportation industries, particularly in the United States, Europe, and Japan, are highly dependent on external economic factors. In addition, the retail apparel industry is inventory-driven. As a result, GT's business is difficult to forecast accurately, and sales volumes on occasion may reflect significant variations in periods of as short as one month. GT may face increased competition in the future from manufacturers of low-end products, which could lead to loss of market share, declining prices, and margins. A failure by GT to respond effectively to increased competition in sales of low-end products, which may require further steps to lower GT's cost of production, may result in a loss of market share and otherwise adversely affect operating results. Low-end products, particularly CAD systems, have experienced increased usage in growth markets such as China, India, and Eastern Europe. These products tend to be local in their distribution, thereby minimizing shipping costs, import duties, and the cost of obtaining an import license, but there is a risk that these products will be distributed regionally. Further, the introduction of spreaders and plotters in some developing countries could result in more intense competition in growth market countries that are expected to provide significant growth opportunities for GT. The impact of the phasing out of trade quotas as of January 1, 2005 for the apparel and textile industries and for GT is not fully known. The elimination of trade quota restrictions on textile and apparel imports as of January 1, 2005 may contribute to a significant consolidation in apparel and textile sourcing that could hurt many countries whose exports of textiles and apparel account for a very high percentage of their export earnings or their gross domestic product. Although GT is seeking to position its business to respond to the changes that may result from the lifting of the trade quotas, the nature and impact of those changes cannot be fully known or assessed. GT's strategy of investing in key emerging markets, particularly China, may not produce the expected results in light of the changing market conditions. 35 Risks Relating to the Ophthalmic Lens Processing Business GC's quarterly and annual operating results are subject to variation resulting from significant, but sometimes non-recurring, orders from key customers. Although GC has an installed customer base of over 7,000 customers, its quarterly and annual operating results can vary depending on the timing and level of larger orders for its equipment and aftermarket consumables by, for example, a major retail chain expanding its geographic coverage by opening up a number of new outlets. These orders may be of a periodic or non-recurring nature, the timing of which may be driven by market forces to which the customer is seeking to respond, and not all of which can be anticipated. The variability of GC's periodic operating results may also be heightened as a result of the consolidation occurring within the optical lens industry. GC faces risks in seeking to increase its focus on the larger wholesale optical laboratories. To take advantage of the consolidation occurring in the ophthalmic lens industry, the increase in market share controlled by the larger retail chains, and the implementation of centralized purchasing initiatives by the leading lens manufacturers, GC is seeking to enhance its sales to the larger independent optical laboratories and the production facilities of the leading lens manufacturers. GC's strategy is to leverage its distributor relationship with a leading lens manufacturer to become a major supplier to the lens manufacturer's controlled laboratories. This strategy may not succeed if the manufacturer decides to enhance its own lens distribution system rather than enter into a supply relationship with GC. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following table presents, as of April 30, 2005, the name and age of each of our executive officers, their present positions with the Company and date of their initial appointment to such positions, and other positions held during the past five years, including positions held with other companies and with subsidiaries of the Company. All officers serve at the pleasure of our Board of Directors. 36 Name and Age Present Position and Date of Initial Appointment Other Positions Held During Last Five Years Marc T. Giles (49) President and Chief Executive Officer (November 29, 2001) President and Chief Executive Officer, Gerber Technology, Inc.; Senior Vice President, Gerber Scientific, Inc. (November 2000 - November 2001); Division Manager, Food Systems & Handling, FMC Corporation (1997 - November 2000), producer of machinery and chemicals for industry and agriculture Jay Zager (55) Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (February 28, 2005) Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Helix Technology Corp. (2002 - February 2005), a semiconductor equipment manufacturer; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Inrange Technologies Corp. (2000-2001), manufacturer of switching and networking products; Vice President Business Development, Digital Equipment Corporation (1995-1999) Bernard J. Demko (46) Senior Vice President, Gerber Scientific, Inc.- Gerber Scientific Operations (April 21, 2005) Chief Operating Officer (September 2002 -April 2005); Senior Vice President (December 2001 - April 2005); Chief Operating Officer, Gerber Technology, Inc. (September 2000 - September 2002); Executive Vice President, Gerber Technology, Inc. (September 2000 - December 2001); Vice President and Corporate Controller, Gerber Scientific, Inc. (June 1998 - September 2000) 37 Doris W. Skoch (62) Senior Vice President (September 30, 2002); President, Spandex Ltd. (September 30, 2002) (Retired April 30, 2005) Group Managing Director, Spandex Ltd. (January 2002 - September 2002); Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Gerber Scientific Products, Inc. (May 2000 - September 2002); Vice President of Finance, Gerber Coburn Optical, Inc. (April 1999 - May 2000) Elaine A. Pullen (51) Senior Vice President (August 30, 2001); Chief Technology Officer (November 1, 2004) President, Gerber Scientific Products (August 2001 - November 2004); President, Trident (ITW), an ink jet manufacturer; Chief Executive Officer and President, Trident International, Inc. James S. Arthurs (61) Senior Vice President (September 30, 2002); President Asia-Pacific, Gerber Scientific, Inc. (February 1, 2005) President, Gerber Technology (September 2002 - February 2005); Executive Vice President, Gerber Technology, Inc. (January 2002 - September 2002); Senior Vice President Global Sales, Gerber Technology, Inc. (May 2001 - September 2002); Vice President International/ Worldwide Sales, Gerber Technology, Inc. (1998-2002) John R. Hancock (58) Senior Vice President (December 7, 2001); President, Gerber Technology (February 1, 2005) President, Gerber Coburn Optical (December 2001 - February 2005); Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing, Gerber Coburn Optical, Inc. (2000 - September 2001) 38 William V. Grickis, Jr. (54) Senior Vice President and General Counsel (October 1, 2003); Secretary (November 20, 2003) Private legal practice (May 2002 - September 2003); Vice President and General Counsel, Agion Technologies, L.L.C., an antimicrobial products company (October 1999 - May 2002); Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, Barnes Group, Inc., a diversified manufacturing company (February 1997 - February 1999) Gregory A. Wolf (37) Vice President (November 1, 2004); President, Gerber Scientific Products (November 1, 2004) Executive Director, Sales and Service, Gerber Scientific Products (October 2003 - November 2004); Director Business Development, Gerber Scientific, Inc. (January 2003 - October 2003); Director, North American Proteins, FMC Technologies/FMC FoodTech (June 2001 - January 2003); Director Global Customer Care, FMC Technologies/FMC FoodTech (July 2000 - June 2001), producer of machinery and chemicals for industry and agriculture Clement Patry (58) Vice President (February 1, 2005); President, Gerber Coburn Optical (February 1, 2005) Executive Director of Sales, Gerber Coburn Optical (May 2003 - February 2005); Director of Sales NA, Gerber Coburn Optical (2000-May 2003) 39 Stephen P. Lovass (35) Interim Managing Director, Spandex Ltd. (February 1, 2005) Vice President, Marketing and Business Development, Spandex Ltd. (April 2004 - February 2005); Executive Director, Product Management and Marketing, Gerber Technology (May 2001 - March 2004); Director, Marketing and Products, FMC Corporation (August 1999 - May 2001), producer of machinery and chemicals for industry and agriculture Websites and Additional Information The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Connecticut in 1948. Our principal executive offices are located at 83 Gerber Road West, South Windsor, Connecticut 06074. Our telephone number is (860) 644-1551. Our website address is www.gerberscientific.com. On the Investor Relations section of our website, you can access, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, in accordance with Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of our website are not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K. In addition, the SEC maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers filing electronically, including the Company. We have adopted a financial code of ethics applicable to our chief executive officer and our senior financial officers that meets the requirements of a "code of ethics" as defined by Item 406 of Regulation S-K. This financial code of ethics is posted on our website. In addition, the Company has posted on its website a code of business conduct and ethics applicable to all directors, officers, and employees, under NYSE listing standards. We will also provide copies of these codes in print without charge to any shareholder that requests them. Requests for copies may be directed to our General Counsel at the address noted above. We intend to disclose any amendments to these codes, and any waiver of a provision of these codes for the benefit of the Company's directors, principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions, on our website referred to above within four business days following such amendment or waiver, or within any other period that may be required under SEC rules from time to time. 40 