ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause actual results to vary materially from prior results or anticipated future results. For a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, see the discussion in "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors that May Influence Future Results," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 and "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Company-Wide Risks If the company is unable to continue to develop and commercialize new technologies and products, the company may experience a decrease in demand for its products or products could become obsolete. Each business unit operates in highly competitive industries. The Sign Making and Specialty Graphics and Ophthalmic Lens Processing operating segments are also subject to rapid technological change. Management believes that the company's ability to develop or acquire new technologies is crucial to success. The company may not be successful in enhancing existing products or developing or acquiring new products and technologies that will receive desired or expected levels of market acceptance. In addition, new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. The company's operating results could be adversely affected if it is unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if products are introduced late to the market, thereby resulting in missed opportunities in dynamic, fast-moving markets, or do not achieve market acceptance. New product introductions in future periods may also affect the sales of existing products. As new or enhanced products are introduced, the company must successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers' ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers' demands. Delays in product development and introduction could adversely affect the operating results of Gerber Scientific Products and Spandex. The failure of these businesses to respond effectively to the continuing transition of sign shops to lower-cost inkjet imaging systems, calendered vinyls and digital media systems may lead to a loss of market share that may be difficult to recapture. Delays in product introductions at Gerber Scientific Products and Spandex may also lead to a loss of market share that may be difficult to recapture. Local competitors have developed products for sale in Gerber Technology's identified growth markets. A delay by Gerber Technology in introducing products of its own in these markets may result in a loss of market share or affect Gerber Technology's ability to achieve market penetration in accordance with its strategy. Delays in product development could disrupt Gerber Coburn's current plans to capture increased business from the higher-volume wholesale optical lens production laboratories and make it more difficult to respond on a timely basis to competitors' product introductions. The company's businesses could suffer as a result of manufacturers' or suppliers' inability or unwillingness to supply the company with systems, parts or aftermarket consumables on time and to specifications. Some hardware and aftermarket consumables products are manufactured to the company's specifications by either domestic or international manufacturers or suppliers. The inability or unwillingness of a manufacturer or supplier to ship such products in a timely manner or to meet quality standards could cause the company to miss customers' delivery date requirements for those items, which could result in the cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, lost customers, product returns, or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have an adverse effect on the company's operating results and financial condition. 18 The company's product development efforts generally have longer-term timetables, on occasion necessitating entering into original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") arrangements to augment product lines. The company continually engages in the development of new and enhanced products in an effort to develop incremental sales and improve gross margins. The company's industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. In some periods, revenue growth depends on outsourcing arrangements with OEMs to augment product lines. If OEMs are not able to supply products reliably, timely, or at a competitive cost, the company's business may suffer. Further, the gross margins associated with sales of OEM products tend to be lower than those associated with internally developed products. The company is subject to currency risks, geopolitical risks and other risks as a result of international operations. The company's export sales have generally been made in United States dollars, although in some territories, principally Western Europe, the company makes sales of some products in local currencies. Approximately 68 percent of the company's revenue was generated in fiscal 2006 by the international operations of the company's principal business units. An increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make the company's products more expensive and, therefore, potentially less competitive in foreign markets. For international sales and expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, the company is subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. The company's hedging strategy may not be successful and currency exchange rate fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on its operating results. The company expects that revenue from international markets will continue to represent a significant portion of total revenue. It is costly to maintain international facilities and operations, promote brand names internationally and develop localized systems and support centers. Some of the risks that the company faces as a result of its international presence include: general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls; potential inflation in the applicable foreign economies; imposition of or increases in import duties and other tariffs on products; and imposition of, or increases in, foreign taxation of earnings and withholding on payments received from subsidiaries. Part of the company's strategy over the last few years has been to expand worldwide market share and decrease costs through strengthening the company's international distribution network and, to some extent, sourcing materials locally. The company continues to consider the location of production facilities closer to end-use customers in international markets. This strategy may heighten the potential impact of certain of the foregoing risks. There could be unforeseen environmental costs that may adversely affect the company's future net earnings. The company operates and competes on a global basis and must conform to applicable environmental, health and safety, or EH&S, laws and regulations wherever the company operates, and in some cases, wherever products are sold. If the company fails to comply with any present or future EH&S laws or regulations, it could incur liabilities, including monetary, civil and criminal penalties and liabilities resulting from the suspension of sales of noncompliant products. 19 EH&S laws and regulations have generally affected the company's manufacturing and warehousing operations and regulated the storage, use, discharge and disposal of the chemicals employed in manufacturing products. However, new and emerging EH&S legislation is now aimed at regulating the chemical composition of finished products and establishing requirements for the end-of-life collection, recovery, reuse, recycling, treatment and environmentally sound disposal of the products themselves. Such legislation has recently gone into effect within the European Union and similar legislation is currently proposed for China. As these new EH&S laws and regulations emerge across the global community, it can be difficult to assess how they will be interpreted, how they will be implemented and how they will be enforced by regulators within the various countries and jurisdictions. It can be equally difficult to assess the potential costs that might be associated should there occur instances of noncompliance . Uncertainty presently exists with respect to recently effective European Union legislation. One European Union directive restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in listed categories of electrical and electronic equipment, and another directive mandates the collection, reuse, recycling, treatment and environmentally sound disposal of listed categories of electrical and electronic equipment at the end of its useful life. The absence of definitions of key terms within the directives, the lack of clear guidance from the European Commission and considerable uncertainty as to how the requirements will be implemented and enforced within the European Union Member States has made it difficult to assess the company's compliance with these directives with certainty. If alleged to be in noncompliance with these or other European Union directives affecting finished products, the company could be required to pay significant legal fees in defense of its positions and, if unsuccessful, could be required to s uspend sales of noncompliant products within certain European Union countries. The suspension of product sales could cause the breach of a contractual obligation and result in the company being directly or indirectly liable for costs, penalties or third-party claims. A sustained finding of noncompliance could additionally require the company to incur significant expenses associated with the redesign or reengineering of products or manufacturing processes, or incur expenses associated with the possible recall of any noncompliant product and/or the management of historical waste products. The intellectual property of the company's businesses, though protected by patents and trademarks, may be at risk when the company manufactures at foreign locations. As some manufacturing is shifting offshore, there is a risk of having patented products reverse engineered and rebuilt by a local competitor. In some countries, such as China, the company cannot guarantee that its intellectual property rights will be protected. Management considers patents and patent applications collectively to be important to the company's operations and has established controls to help secure intellectual property. The company's businesses are subject to fluctuations in operating results due to general economic conditions, specific economic conditions in the industries in which it operates and other external forces. The company's businesses and operations could be affected by: changes in general economic conditions and specific conditions in industries in which the company's businesses operate that can result in the deferral or reduction of purchases by end-use customers; changes in the level of global corporate spending on technologies related to such economic conditions; 20 the effects of terrorist activity and international conflicts, which have led, and in the future could lead, to business interruptions and difficulty in forecasting; the size, timing and cancellation of significant orders, which can be non-recurring; product configuration and mix; market acceptance of new products and product enhancements; announcements, introductions and transitions of new products by the company or the company's competitors; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by the company or the company's competitors; changes in pricing in response to competitive pricing actions; supply constraints; the level of expenditures on research and development and sales and marketing programs; the company's ability to achieve targeted cost reductions; rising interest rates; and excess facilities. At various times in recent years, markets for one or more of the company's main products have been characterized by falling prices, unstable exchange rates, weaker global demand and shifting production bases. In this type of environment, the company's ability to achieve and sustain profitability may depend to a great degree on the ability to reduce costs, including the costs of sourced materials, and manage the supply chain, increase productivity levels, reposition the company within higher value-added market segments and establish a production presence in geographic areas outside the United States. Management believes that diversification of the company's businesses across multiple industries and geographically has helped, and should continue to help, limit the effect of adverse market conditions in any one industry or the economy of any one country or region on consolidated results. Nonetheless, the effect of adverse conditions in one or more industries or regions may not be limited or offset in the future. The company's results are subject to fluctuations in costs of purchased finished goods, components and aftermarket consumables. The company depends on finished equipment, component parts and other materials from suppliers to manufacture and distribute the systems the company sells. Each of the business units also relies on suppliers for the products it sells directly to its distribution networks. Fluctuations in the prices of such equipment, components and materials, whether caused by market demand, shortages, currency exchange rates, or other factors, could adversely affect the cost basis for the production, delivery or maintenance of the company's products and, in turn, have an adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. If the company does not generate the operating cash flow anticipated, it may be unable to service its indebtedness and comply with financial and operating covenants. The ability to make scheduled payments under the company's credit facility and other indebtedness and to comply with financial and operating covenants will depend primarily on the company's success in generating substantial operating cash flow. The company is also subject to risks in connection with the refinancing of its existing indebtedness. The company's primary credit facility matures in October 2008 and the company may not be able to refinance its existing indebtedness and, even if able to do so, the terms of a refinancing might not be as favorable as the terms of the existing indebtedness. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, including new equity capital, the company's cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all maturing indebtedness at the relevant times. Failure to pay or extend the maturity of such indebtedness could result in default under or acceleration of the company's other indebtedness. If the m aturity of the company's indebtedness were accelerated, the company may not have sufficient funds to pay such indebtedness. Prevailing interest rates, operating results and financial condition, or other factors at the time of refinancing, including the possible reluctance of lenders to make loans, may result in higher interest rates and increased interest expense. 21 The company's indebtedness could adversely affect its financial health and ability to compete. As of April 30, 2006, the company had $36.8 million of long-term indebtedness. The company's indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it may: increase the company's vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, as a significant portion of borrowings will continue to be at variable rates of interest; require the company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the company's ability to borrow additional funds in the future as a result of financial and other restrictive covenants in its indebtedness; restrict business activities due to financial and other restrictive covenants in the company's debt agreements; limit the company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which it operates; and place the company at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that have less indebtedness. The company faces intense competition in each of its principal business units. Although the company is a pioneer or a leading company in each of the industries that the company's principal business units serve, competition has grown in recent years in each market segment in which the company operates. Unless the company's business units can effectively implement strategies to lower costs, enhance the rate of product development, stimulate revenue growth, expand the geographic reach of operations and leverage brand names and distribution networks, the company may experience a decline in operating results and a deterioration of financial condition. Any significant impairment of the company's goodwill would lead to a decrease in the company's assets and reduction in the company's net operating performance. Approximately 16.6% of the company's assets consisted of goodwill as of April 30, 2006. If the company makes changes in its business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect business operations, the company may be forced to record an impairment charge, which would lead to a decrease in the company's assets and reduction in net operating performance. The company tests goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, the company is required to record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill for impairment requires the company to make significant estimates about the future performance and cash flows of the company, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors , including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations, future reporting unit operating performance, existing or new product market acceptance, changes in competition or changes in technologies. Any changes in key assumptions, or actual performance compared with those assumptions, about the business and its future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more reporting units, resulting in an impairment charge. 22 The company is required to account for options under employee stock plans as a compensation expense, which will adversely affect reported operating results beginning in fiscal 2007. The company currently discloses pro forma compensation expense quarterly and annually by calculating the fair value of options awarded on the date of grant and disclosing the impact on net earnings and net earnings per share in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R") will require the company to record the fair value of all stock options awarded as compensation expense in the consolidated statement of operations, which will adversely affect the company's operating results. The company adopted SFAS 123R on May 1, 2006. Risks Relating to the Sign Making and Specialty Graphics Business Gerber Scientific Products must enhance and diversify its product lines and accelerate the pace of new product development, or risk a loss of market share and declining operating results. Gerber Scientific Products must enhance and diversify its product lines to make sign and specialty graphics production more efficient and cost effective. Gerber Scientific Products also must respond to the transition of sign shops to lower-cost inkjet imaging systems, calendered vinyls and digital media systems. Product development may be outpaced by advances in inks, substrate materials, or print head technology that could alter what end-use customers deem to be the preferred equipment and, in turn, adversely affect the level of market acceptance of Gerber Scientific Product's future equipment offerings. If Gerber Scientific Products' large aftermarket suppliers decide to sell to its customers directly, operating results would be adversely affected. Most of Gerber Scientific Products' aftermarket products are supplied on an OEM basis from large industry suppliers. Although the company believes there are alternative sources of supply, the company would need to compete with its current suppliers directly, if they decide to sell to the company's customers directly, which could adversely affect the company's operations. The non-renewal by any of Gerber Scientific Products' key United States distributors of annual distribution agreements could adversely affect Gerber Scientific Products' operating results. As a significant percentage of Gerber Scientific Products' revenues are represented by its principal United States distributors, the non-renewal by some or all of these distributors of annual distribution agreements could adversely affect Gerber Scientific Products' operating results. The transition to inkjet imaging systems and lower-cost calendered vinyls has resulted in a decline in the proportion of the sales of Gerber Scientific Products' key distributors represented by Gerber Scientific Products' products in recent years, which increases the risk of non-renewal by one or more of these distributors. This transition also raises the risk that distributors may compete directly in the distribution of inkjet imaging products as the company develops inkjet products. If the company does not choose the right products to distribute to its end-use customers and distributors and properly test products before distributing them, its market position and operating results may suffer. A failure to meet customer requirements could have a negative effect on Gerber Scientific Products' market position and operating results. Gerber Scientific Products, as an original equipment manufacturer, and Spandex, as a distributor, must respond to the evolving product needs of their end-use customers. To maintain relationships with customers, Spandex and Gerber Scientific Products' United States distributors must distribute the products that meet customer specifications. They must also ensure that the products are properly tested and that sales personnel and technicians are properly trained concerning the capabilities and calibration of new products. In light of the increased pace of technological advances, and the proliferation of new products due to low industry barriers to entry, end-use customers have become increasingly dependent on Gerber Scientific Products to perform these functions and have this expertise. To meet these objectives, Gerber Scientific Products must carefully manage r elationships with equipment and aftermarket consumables suppliers, making sure that they are satisfied with Gerber Scientific Products' performance and services. 23 Risks Relating to the Apparel and Flexible Materials Business Gerber Technology's markets are inherently tied to regional and global economic conditions and levels of capital investment and, as such, are difficult to predict. The apparel, textile, furniture and transportation industries, particularly in the United States, Europe and Japan, are highly dependent on external economic factors. In addition, the retail apparel industry is inventory-driven. As a result, Gerber Technology's business is difficult to forecast accurately and sales volumes on occasion may reflect significant variations in periods of as short as one month. Gerber Technology may face increased competition in the future from manufacturers of low-end products, which could lead to loss of market share, declining prices and margins. A failure by Gerber Technology to respond effectively to increased competition in sales of low-end products, which may require further steps to lower Gerber Technology's cost of production, may result in a loss of market share and otherwise adversely affect operating results. Low-end products, particularly CAD systems, have experienced increased usage in growth markets such as China, India and Eastern Europe. These products tend to be local in their distribution, thereby minimizing shipping costs, import duties and the cost of obtaining an import license, but there is a risk that these products will be distributed regionally. Further, the introduction of spreaders and plotters in some developing countries could result in more intense competition in growth market countries that are expected to provide significant growth opportunities for Gerber Technology. The impact of the phasing out of trade quotas as of January 1, 2005 for the apparel and textile industries and for Gerber Technology is not fully known. The elimination of trade quota restrictions on textile and apparel imports as of January 1, 2005 may contribute to a significant consolidation in apparel and textile sourcing that could hurt many countries whose exports of textiles and apparel account for a very high percentage of their export earnings or their gross domestic product. Although Gerber Technology is seeking to position its business to respond to the changes that may result from the lifting of the trade quotas, the nature and impact of those changes cannot be fully known or assessed. Gerber Technology's strategy of investing in key emerging markets, particularly China, may not produce the expected results in light of the changing market conditions. Risks Relating to the Ophthalmic Lens Processing Business Gerber Coburn's quarterly and annual operating results are subject to variation resulting from significant, but sometimes non-recurring, orders from key customers. Although Gerber Coburn has an installed customer base of over 7,000 customers, its quarterly and annual operating results can vary depending on the timing and level of larger orders for its equipment and aftermarket consumables by, for example, a major retail chain expanding its geographic coverage by opening up a number of new outlets. These orders may be of a periodic or non-recurring nature, the timing of which may be driven by market forces to which the customer is seeking to respond, and not all of which can be anticipated. The variability of Gerber Coburn's periodic operating results may also be heightened as a result of the consolidation occurring within the optical lens industry. 24 Gerber Coburn faces risks in seeking to increase its focus on the larger wholesale optical laboratories. To take advantage of the consolidation occurring in the ophthalmic lens industry, the increase in market share controlled by the larger retail chains and the implementation of centralized purchasing initiatives by the leading lens manufacturers, Gerber Coburn is seeking to enhance its sales to the larger independent optical laboratories and the production facilities of the leading lens manufacturers. Gerber Coburn's strategy is to leverage its distributor relationship with a leading lens manufacturer to become a major supplier to the lens manufacturer's controlled laboratories. This strategy may not succeed if the manufacturer decides to enhance its own lens distribution system rather than enter into a supply relationship with Gerber Coburn. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 