ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing the company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Company-Wide Risks If the company is unable to continue to develop and commercialize new technologies and products, the company may experience a decrease in demand for its products or products could become obsolete. Management believes that the company's ability to develop or acquire new technologies is crucial to success. The company may not be successful in enhancing existing products or developing or acquiring new products and technologies that will receive desired or expected levels of market acceptance. In addition, new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. The company's operating results could be adversely affected if it is unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market 14 conditions or customer requirements, or if products are introduced late to the market, thereby resulting in missed opportunities in dynamic, fast-moving markets or do not achieve market acceptance. New product introductions in future periods may also affect the sales of existing products. As new or enhanced products are introduced, the company must successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers' ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers' demands. The company's businesses could suffer as a result of manufacturers' or suppliers' inability or unwillingness to supply the company with systems, parts or aftermarket consumables on time and to specifications. Some hardware and aftermarket consumables products are manufactured to the company's specifications by either domestic or international manufacturers or suppliers. The inability or unwillingness of a manufacturer or supplier to ship such products in a timely manner or to meet quality standards could cause the company to miss customers' delivery date requirements for those items, which could result in the cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, lost customers, product returns or voluntary reductions in purchase prices, any of which could have an adverse effect on the company's operating results and financial condition. The company's product development efforts generally have longer-term timetables, on occasion requiring us to enter into original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") arrangements to augment product lines. The company continually engages in the development of new and enhanced products in an effort to develop incremental sales and improve gross margins. The industries in which the company operates are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. In some periods, revenue growth depends on outsourcing arrangements with OEMs to augment product lines. If OEMs are not able to supply products reliably, timely, or at a competitive cost, the company's business may suffer. Further, the gross margins associated with sales of OEM products tend to be lower than those associated with internally developed products. The company may not benefit from our acquisition strategy. As part of the company's business strategy, management regularly evaluates opportunities to enhance the company's value by pursuing acquisitions of other businesses. Management cannot provide any assurance with respect to the timing, likelihood, size or financial effect of any potential transaction as the company may not be successful in identifying and consummating acquisitions or in integrating any newly acquired business into the company's operations. The evaluation of business acquisition opportunities and the integration of any acquired businesses pose a number of significant risks, including the following: · acquisitions may place significant strain on management, financial and other resources by requiring the company to expend a substantial amount of time and resources in the pursuit of acquisitions that may not completed, or to devote significant attention to the various integration efforts of any newly acquired businesses, all of which will require the allocation of limited resources; · acquisitions may not have an immediate positive impact on the company's cash flows or results of operations because of transaction-related expenses or higher operating and administrative expenses that may be incurred in the periods immediately following an acquisition as the company seeks to integrate the acquired business into its operations; · the company may not be able to eliminate as many redundant costs as anticipated; · the company's operating and financial systems and controls and information services may not be compatible with those of companies that may be acquired and may not be adequate to support integration efforts, and any steps taken to improve these systems and controls may not be sufficient; · growth through acquisitions could increase the company's need for qualified personnel, who may not be available; and · acquired businesses may have unexpected liabilities and contingencies, which could be significant. 15 The company is subject to currency risks, geopolitical risks and other risks as a result of international operations. The company's export sales have generally been made in United States dollars, although in some territories, principally Western Europe, the company sells in local currencies. The company's international operations, including United States export sales, represented approximately 75 percent of the company's revenue for the year ended April 30, 2008. An increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make the company's products more expensive and, therefore, potentially less competitive in foreign markets. For international sales and expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, the company is subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. The company expects that revenue from international markets will continue to represent a significant portion of total revenue. It is costly to maintain international facilities and operations, promote brand names internationally and develop localized systems and support centers. Some of the risks that the company faces as a result of its international presence include: · general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls; · potential inflation in the applicable foreign economies; · imposition of or increases in import duties and other tariffs on products; and · imposition of or increases in foreign taxation of earnings and withholding on payments received from subsidiaries. Part of the company's strategy over the last few years has been to expand worldwide market share and decrease costs through strengthening the company's international distribution network and, to some extent, sourcing materials locally. The company continues to consider the location of production facilities closer to end-use customers in international markets. This strategy may heighten the potential impact of certain of the foregoing risks. The company is subject to credit market risk. Recent distress in the credit and financial markets has reduced liquidity and credit availability and increased volatility in prices of securities. Investments subject to credit market risk as of April 30, 2008 include investments held on behalf of the company's nonqualified supplemental pension plan in rabbi trust and within the Gerber Scientific, Inc. and Participating Subsidiaries Pension Plan. Credit market risk could negatively impact the company's lenders' ability and willingness to fund the commitment amount of the credit facility and suppliers being able to deliver goods in accordance with their commitments. Additionally, credit market risk could adversely impact the performance of the company's investments in its pension plans, resulting in unrealized temporary losses, realized losses, or a decline in the funded status of its pension plan. There could be unforeseen environmental costs that may adversely affect the company's future net earnings. The company operates and competes on a global basis and must conform to applicable environmental, health and safety ("EH&S") laws and regulations wherever the company operates, and in some cases, wherever products are sold. If the company fails to comply with any present or future EH&S laws or regulations, it could incur liabilities, including monetary, civil and criminal penalties and liabilities resulting from the suspension of sales of noncompliant products. EH&S laws and regulations have generally affected the company's manufacturing and warehousing operations and regulated the storage, use, discharge and disposal of the chemicals employed in manufacturing products. However, new and emerging EH&S legislation is now aimed at regulating the chemical composition of finished products and establishing requirements for the end-of-life collection, recovery, reuse, recycling, treatment and environmentally sound disposal of the products themselves. Such legislation has recently gone into effect within the European Union and similar legislation is currently proposed for China. As these new EH&S laws and regulations emerge across the global community, it can be difficult to assess how they will be interpreted, how they will be implemented and how they will be enforced by regulators within the various countries and jurisdictions. It can be equally difficult to assess the potential costs that might be associated should there occur instances of noncompliance. Uncertainty continues to exist with respect to certain effective European Union legislation. One European Union directive restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in listed categories of electrical and electronic equipment, and another 16 directive mandates the collection, reuse, recycling, treatment and environmentally sound disposal of listed categories of electrical and electronic equipment at the end of its useful life. If alleged to be in noncompliance with this or other European Union directives affecting finished products, the company could be required to pay significant legal fees in defense of its positions and, if unsuccessful, could be required to suspend sales of noncompliant products within certain European Union countries. The suspension of product sales could cause the breach of a contractual obligation and result in the company being directly or indirectly liable for costs, penalties or third-party claims. A sustained finding of noncompliance could additionally require the company to incur significant expenses associated with the redesign or reengineering of products or manufacturing processes, or incur expenses associated with the possible recall of any noncompliant product and/or the management of historical waste products. The intellectual property of the company's businesses, though protected by patents and trademarks, may be at risk when the company manufactures at foreign locations. As some of the Company's manufacturing operations are shifting offshore, there is a risk of having patented products reverse-engineered and rebuilt by a local competitor. In some countries, such as China, the company cannot guarantee that its intellectual property rights will be protected. Management considers patents and patent applications collectively to be important to the company's operations and has established controls to help secure intellectual property. These controls may not prove to be effective in all circumstances. The company's businesses are subject to fluctuations in operating results due to general economic conditions, specific economic conditions in the industries in which it operates and other external forces. The company's businesses and operations could be affected by the following, among other factors: · changes in general economic conditions and specific conditions in industries in which the company's businesses operate that can result in the deferral or reduction of purchases by end-use customers; · changes in the level of global corporate spending on technologies related to such economic conditions; · the effects of terrorist activity and international conflicts, which could lead to business interruptions; · the size and timing of significant orders, which can be non-recurring; · product configuration and mix; · market acceptance of new products and product enhancements; · announcements, introductions and transitions of new products by the company or the company's competitors; · deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by the company or the company's competitors; · changes in pricing in response to competitive pricing actions; · supply constraints; · the level of expenditures on research and development and sales and marketing programs; · the company's ability to achieve targeted cost reductions; · rising interest rates; and · excess facilities. At various times in recent years, markets for one or more of the company's main products have been characterized by falling prices, unstable exchange rates, weaker global demand and shifting production bases. In this type of environment, the company's ability to achieve and sustain profitability may depend to a great degree on the ability to reduce costs, including the costs of sourced materials, manage the supply chain, increase productivity levels, reposition the company within higher value-added market segments and establish a production presence in geographic areas outside the United States. Management believes that diversification of the company's businesses across multiple industries and geographically has helped, and should continue to help limit, the effect of adverse market conditions in any one industry or the economy of any one country or region on consolidated results. Nonetheless, the effect of adverse conditions in one or more industries or regions may not be limited or offset in the future. 17 The company's results are subject to fluctuations in costs of purchased finished goods, components and aftermarket consumables. The company depends on finished equipment, component parts and other materials from suppliers to manufacture and distribute the systems the company sells. Each of the business units also relies on suppliers for certain aftermarket consumable materials it sells through directly. Fluctuations in the prices of such equipment, components and materials, whether caused by market demand, shortages, currency exchange rates, or other factors, could adversely affect the cost basis for the production, delivery or maintenance of the company's products and, in turn, have an adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The company faces intense competition in each of its principal business units. Competition has intensified in recent years within each market segment in which the company operates. Unless the company's business units can effectively implement strategies to lower costs, enhance the rate of product development, stimulate revenue growth, expand the geographic reach of operations and leverage brand names and distribution networks, the company may experience a decline in operating results, and a deterioration of financial condition and cash flows. Any significant impairment of the company's goodwill would lead to a decrease in the company's assets and reduction in the company's net operating performance. Approximately 16 percent of the company's assets consisted of goodwill as of April 30, 2008. If the company makes changes in its business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect business operations, the company may be forced to record an impairment charge, which would lead to decreased assets and a reduction in net operating performance. The company tests goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, the company is required to record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill for impairment requires the company to make significant estimates about the future performance and cash flows of the company, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations, future reporting unit operating performance, existing or new product market acceptance, changes in competition or changes in technologies. Any changes in key assumptions, or actual performance compared with those assumptions, about the business and its future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more reporting units which may result in an impairment charge. Risks Relating to the Sign Making and Specialty Graphics Segment Gerber Scientific Products must enhance and diversify its product lines and accelerate the pace of new product development, or risk a loss of market share and declining operating results. Gerber Scientific Products must enhance and diversify its product lines to make sign and specialty graphics production more efficient and cost effective. Gerber Scientific Products also must respond to the transition of sign shops to lower-cost inkjet imaging systems, calendered vinyls and digital media systems. Product development may be outpaced by advances in inks, substrate materials or print head technology that could alter what end-use customers deem to be the preferred equipment and, in turn, adversely affect the level of market acceptance of Gerber Scientific Product's future equipment offerings. If aftermarket suppliers decide to sell to its customers directly, operating results would be adversely affected. Most aftermarket products are supplied on an OEM basis from large industry suppliers. Although the company believes there are alternative sources of supply, the company would need to compete with its current suppliers if they decide to sell directly to the company's customers, which could adversely affect this segment's operations. The non-renewal by any of Gerber Scientific Products' key United States distributors of annual distribution agreements could adversely affect this segment's operating results. As a significant percentage of Gerber Scientific Products' revenue is represented by its principal United States distributors, 18 the non-renewal by some or all of the annual distribution agreements could adversely affect the segment's operating results. Additionally, there is the further risk that distributors may compete directly in the distribution of inkjet imaging products. If the company does not choose the right products to distribute to its end-use customers and distributors, its market position and operating results may suffer. A failure to meet customer requirements could have a negative effect on this segment's market position and operating results. Gerber Scientific Products, as an original equipment manufacturer, and Spandex, as a distributor, must respond to the evolving product needs of their end-use customers. To maintain relationships with customers, Gerber Scientific Products and Spandex must distribute the products that meet customer specifications. They must also ensure that the products are operating correctly and that sales personnel and technicians are properly trained concerning the capabilities and calibration of new products. In light of the increased pace of technological advances and the proliferation of new products due to low industry barriers to entry, end-use customers have become increasingly dependent on the company to perform these functions and have this expertise. To meet these objectives, Gerber Scientific Products and Spandex must carefully manage relationships with equipment and aftermarket consumables suppliers, making sure that they are satisfied with performance and services. Risks Relating to the Apparel and Flexible Materials Segment Gerber Technology's markets are inherently tied to regional and global economic conditions and levels of capital investment and, as such, are difficult to predict. The apparel, textile, furniture and transportation industries, particularly in the United States, Europe, China and Japan, are highly dependent on external economic factors. In addition, the retail apparel industry is inventory-driven. As a result, Gerber Technology's business sales volumes on occasion may reflect significant variations in periods as short as one month. Gerber Technology may face increased competition in the future from manufacturers of low-end products, which could lead to loss of market share, declining prices and margins. A failure by Gerber Technology to respond effectively to increased competition in sales of low-end products, which may require further steps to reduce Gerber Technology's cost of production, may result in a loss of market share and otherwise adversely affect this segment's operating results. Low-end products, particularly CAD systems, have experienced increased usage in growth markets such as China, India and Eastern Europe. Although these products tend to be local in their distribution, thereby minimizing shipping costs, import duties and the cost of obtaining an import license, but there is a risk that these products will be distributed regionally. Further, the introduction by competitors of spreaders and plotters in some developing countries could result in more intense competition in growth market countries that are expected to provide significant growth opportunities for Gerber Technology. The impact of the phasing out of trade quotas for the apparel and textile industries and for Gerber Technology is not fully known. The elimination of trade quota restrictions on textile and apparel imports may contribute to a significant consolidation in apparel and textile sourcing that could hurt many countries whose exports of textiles and apparel account for a very high percentage of their export earnings or their gross domestic product. Although Gerber Technology is seeking to position its business to respond to the changes that may result from the lifting of the trade quotas, the nature and impact of those changes cannot be fully known or assessed. Gerber Technology's strategy of investing in key emerging markets, particularly China, may not produce the expected results in light of the changing market conditions. Risks Relating to the Ophthalmic Lens Processing Segment Gerber Coburn's quarterly and annual operating results are subject to variation resulting from significant, but sometimes non-recurring, orders from key customers. Although Gerber Coburn has an installed customer base of over 7,000 customers, its quarterly and annual operating results can vary depending on the timing and level of larger orders for its equipment and aftermarket consumables. These orders may be of a periodic or non-recurring nature, the timing of which may be driven by market forces to which the customer is 19 seeking to respond, and not all of which can be anticipated. The variability of Gerber Coburn's periodic operating results may also be heightened as a result of the consolidation occurring within the optical lens industry. Gerber Coburn must successfully perform under agreements for the distribution of key distributor products or face the risk that those distribution agreements may not be renewed. A portion of Gerber Coburn's revenue comes from the sales of products that are developed and manufactured by third parties. Gerber Coburn's distribution rights are contractually tied to performance levels which include sales minimums. In the event that those performance levels are not achieved, Gerber Coburn may risk the loss of distribution rights for the affected products, which could adversely affect Gerber Coburn's operating results. Gerber Coburn must successfully respond to market demands for new products, in the area of direct surfacing, or risk the loss of market share to competitors. A growing demand within the ophthalmic laboratory segment is that of direct surfacing, sometimes called digital surfacing or free-form lens processing. Direct surfacing requires new, more precise and more complex equipment which Gerber Coburn has had under development and recently launched in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. If Gerber Coburn's equipment does not achieve sufficient market acceptance, this segment could experience adverse operating results and a loss of market share. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 