ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Company-Wide Risks If Gerber is unable to continue to develop and commercialize new technologies and products, it may experience a decrease in demand for its products or its products could become obsolete. Gerber believes that its ability to develop or acquire new technologies is crucial to the company's success. Gerber may not be successful in enhancing existing products or developing or acquiring new products and technologies that will achieve desired or expected levels of market acceptance. New products may require incremental start-up costs associated with new product launches. In addition, new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. Gerber's operating results could be adversely affected if it is unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if it introduces products late to the market, thereby resulting in missed opportunities in dynamic, fast-moving markets or resulting in a failure to achieve market acceptance. Any failure by Gerber to adequately manage future new product introductions could adversely affect Gerber's sales of existing products. As new or enhanced products are introduced, Gerber must successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers' ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers' demands. Gerber's businesses could suffer as a result of manufacturers' or suppliers' inability or unwillingness to supply Gerber with systems, parts or aftermarket supplies on time and to specifications. Gerber relies upon domestic and international manufacturers and suppliers for certain hardware and aftermarket supplies, which are manufactured to Gerber's specifications. The inability or unwillingness of a manufacturer or supplier to ship such products in a timely manner or to meet quality standards could cause Gerber to miss customers' delivery date requirements for those products, which could result in the cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, lost customers, product returns or voluntary reductions in purchase prices. Any one of those consequences could have an adverse effect on Gerber's operating 12 results and financial condition. Gerber continually engages in the development of new and enhanced products in an effort to develop incremental sales and improve gross margins. The industries in which Gerber operates are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. In some periods, Gerber's revenue growth depends on outsourcing arrangements with OEMs to augment its product lines. If OEMs are not able to supply products reliably, in a timely manner, or at a competitive cost, Gerber's business may suffer. Gerber may not benefit from its acquisition strategy. As part of Gerber's business strategy, management regularly evaluates opportunities to supplement its internal growth by pursuing targeted acquisitions of other businesses. Gerber may not be successful in identifying and consummating acquisitions or in integrating newly acquired businesses into Gerber's operations. The evaluation of business acquisition opportunities and the integration of acquired businesses pose a number of significant risks, including the following: · the pursuit of ultimately unconsummated acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses could significantly strain management, financial and other resources and divert limited resources from regular operations; · acquisitions may not have an immediate positive impact on Gerber's cash flows or results of operations due to transaction-related expenses or higher operating and administrative expenses that may be incurred during the integration period immediately following the acquisitions; · Gerber may not be able to achieve the synergies and cost savings anticipated to result from any acquisition; · Gerber's operating and financial systems and controls and information services may not be compatible with those of acquired companies or adequate to support integration efforts, and any steps taken to improve these systems and controls may not be sufficient; · acquisitions could increase Gerber's need for qualified personnel, who may not be available; and · acquired businesses may have unexpected liabilities and contingencies, which could be significant. Gerber's ability to engage in acquisitions will depend in part on its ability to raise capital, and Gerber may not be able to obtain acquisition financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. Gerber's acquisition strategy also may be constrained by the limited availability of candidates that satisfy Gerber's acquisition criteria. Gerber is subject to currency risks, geopolitical risks and other risks of conducting international operations. Gerber's international sales, including United States export sales, represented approximately 68 percent of the company’s consolidated revenue for fiscal 2010. Gerber expects that revenue from international markets will continue to represent a significant portion of total revenue and therefore the company will continue to face risks associated with international operations. Gerber's export sales are normally transacted in United States dollars, although in some markets, principally Western Europe, sales prices are denominated in local currencies. An increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make Gerber's products more expensive and, therefore, potentially less competitive in foreign markets. For international sales and expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, Gerber is subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Some of the additional risks associated with Gerber's international operations include: · general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls; · potential inflation in the applicable foreign economies; · imposition of or increases in import duties and other tariffs on products; and · imposition of or increases in foreign taxation of earnings and withholding on payments received from subsidiaries. The potential impact of the foregoing risks could be heightened by Gerber's strategy in recent years to expand its international market share and decrease costs by strengthening Gerber's international distribution network, sourcing materials locally and 13 pursuing opportunities to locate its production facilities closer to end-use customers in international markets. Gerber’s level of debt and interest payment obligations may limit its ability to compete and expose it to interest rate risk to the extent of its variable-rate debt. As of April 30, 2010, Gerber had a total of $45.0 million of indebtedness outstanding under its $75 million senior secured revolving credit facility. This level of indebtedness may have important consequences. For example, it may: · make it more difficult for Gerber to satisfy its financial obligations; · require Gerber to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness; · limit Gerber’s ability to react to changes to the economy or in its business or industry; and · place Gerber at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have less indebtedness. Because borrowings under Gerber’s revolving credit facility accrue interest at variable rates, Gerber’s interest expense could increase if interest rates increase and it is not able to manage its related exposure through derivative financial instruments. Gerber may be unable to comply with the financial covenants in its credit agreement unless it continues to generate sufficient operating cash flows. Gerber’s ability to comply with the financial covenants under the credit agreement for its $75 million senior secured revolving credit facility depends primarily on its ability to generate sufficient operating cash flows. Under its credit agreement, Gerber is subject to a maximum funded debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, a maximum capital expenditures covenant and a minimum asset coverage covenant, all as defined for purposes of the credit agreement. Industry conditions and financial, business and other factors, including those Gerber identifies as risk factors in this report, will affect its ability to generate the cash flows it needs to meet those financial covenants. Gerber’s failure to meet the covenants could result in a default and acceleration of rep ayment of the indebtedness under its revolving credit facility. The credit agreement contains subjective acceleration clauses under which, upon the occurrence of a change in Gerber's financial condition, business or operations considered by the lenders to be materially adverse to Gerber, the lenders may cause amounts due under the agreement to become immediately due and payable. If the maturity of Gerber’s indebtedness were accelerated, it would not have sufficient funds to pay such indebtedness. In such event, Gerber’s lenders would be entitled to proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness, which includes substantially all of Gerber’s assets, to the extent permitted by the credit agreement and applicable law. Covenants under Gerber’s credit agreement may restrict its future operations. Gerber’s senior secured revolving credit facility agreement imposes operating and financial restrictions that limit Gerber’s discretion on some business matters, which could make it more difficult for Gerber to expand, finance its operations, pursue its acquisition strategy, and engage in other business activities that may be in its interest. These restrictions, which include compliance with financial covenants, limit the ability of Gerber and its subsidiaries to: · incur additional indebtedness, create liens and make investments; · pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase capital stock, and issue or sell stock of subsidiaries; and · engage in sale-leaseback transactions, sell assets and engage in mergers, sales, acquisitions and consolidations. Gerber may incur indebtedness in addition to the foregoing indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness it may incur in the future could subject Gerber to similar or even more restrictive conditions. If Gerber is unable to raise additional capital, its ability to expand its business and to meet its obligations may be limited. The development and expansion of Gerber’s business will require substantial investment. If Gerber chooses to accelerate the expansion of its business or undertake significant acquisitions of other businesses, Gerber may require additional capital. If Gerber cannot obtain additional equity or debt financing for such purposes on acceptable terms, the company could be at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with significant capital or the ability to raise significant capital for expansion. The terms of any financing Gerber does obtain will be restricted by the terms of its existing debt agreement and may be burdensome to the company. 14 Credit market risk could adversely affect Gerber's investments, Gerber's ability to raise additional capital and the ability of its customers and suppliers to obtain financing needed to transact business with Gerber. Distress in credit and financial markets has reduced liquidity and credit availability and increased volatility in prices of securities. Credit market risk could also adversely impact the performance of investments in Gerber's pension plans, resulting in unrealized temporary losses, realized losses, other-than-temporary impairment charges or a decline in the funded status of the pension plan. Investments subject to credit market risk as of April 30, 2010 include investments held on behalf of Gerber's nonqualified supplemental pension plan in rabbi trust and within the Gerber Scientific, Inc. and Participating Subsidiaries Pension Plan. Credit market risk could negatively impact Gerber's lenders' ability and willingness to fund the committed amount under its revolving credit facility. In addition, Gerber’s ability to access the debt and equity markets may be restricted at a time when it would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an adverse effect on Gerber’s flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The disruptions in the financial markets have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the market value of Gerber’s common stock, which could make it more difficult or costly for the company to raise capital through an offering of its equity securities. Credit market risk could negatively impact customers' ability to obtain external financing to purchase Gerber's products and suppliers' ability to deliver goods to Gerber in accordance with their commitments. Unforeseen environmental costs may adversely affect Gerber's future earnings. Gerber operates and competes on a global basis and must conform to applicable environmental, health and safety, or "EH&S," laws and regulations wherever the company operates, and in some cases, wherever its products are sold. If Gerber fails to comply with any present or future EH&S laws or regulations, it could incur liabilities, including monetary, civil and criminal penalties and liabilities resulting from the suspension of sales of noncompliant products. EH&S laws and regulations, which generally affect Gerber's manufacturing and warehousing operations, regulate the storage, use, discharge and disposal of chemicals employed in manufacturing products. New and emerging EH&S legislation is aimed at regulating the chemical composition of finished products and establishing requirements for the end-of-life collection, recovery, reuse, recycling, treatment and environmentally sound disposal of the products themselves. Such legislation has recently gone into effect within the European Union and similar legislation for China. As these new EH&S laws and regulations emerge across the global community, it can be difficult to assess how they will be interpreted, implemented and enforced by regulators within the various countries and jurisdictions, and to predict the potential cost s of noncompliance. Uncertainty continues to exist with respect to some effective European Union legislation. One European Union directive restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in some electrical and electronic equipment, while another directive mandates requirements in the collection, reuse, recycling, treatment and environmentally sound disposal of certain electrical and electronic equipment at the end of its useful life. If alleged to be in noncompliance with this or other European Union directives affecting finished products, Gerber could be required to pay significant legal fees in defense of its positions and, if unsuccessful, could be required to suspend sales of noncompliant products within the relevant European Union member states. The suspension of product sales could cause the breach of contractual obligations and result in Gerber being directly or indirectly liable for costs, penalties or third-party claims. A sustained finding of noncompliance could additionally require Gerber to incur significant expenses associated with the redesign or reengineering of products or manufacturing processes, or incur expenses associated with the possible recall of any noncompliant product or the management of historical waste products. Gerber may not effectively protect its intellectual property. Gerber's operational and legal controls to help to secure its intellectual property may not prove to be effective in all circumstances. Gerber may not be able to protect key intellectual property, particularly in some international markets in which it operates. Because certain of Gerber's manufacturing operations are located outside of the United States, some of Gerber's patented products may be reverse-engineered and rebuilt by a local competitor. In some countries, such as China, Gerber's intellectual property rights may not be legally protected. 15 Gerber's businesses are subject to fluctuations in operating results due to general economic conditions, specific economic conditions in the industries in which Gerber operates and other external forces. Gerber's businesses and operations are subject to the following factors, among others: · changes in general economic conditions and specific conditions in industries in which Gerber's businesses operate that can result in the deferral or reduction of purchases by end-use customers; · changes in the level of global corporate spending on technologies due to such economic conditions; · the effects of terrorist activity and international conflicts, which could lead to business interruptions; · the size and timing of significant orders, which can be non-recurring; · product configuration and mix; · market acceptance of new products and product enhancements; · announcements, introductions and transitions of new products by Gerber or Gerber's competitors; · deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by Gerber or Gerber's competitors; · changes in pricing in response to competitive pricing actions; · supply constraints; · the level of expenditures on research and development and sales and marketing programs; · Gerber's ability to achieve targeted cost reductions; · rising interest rates; and · costs associated with excess capacity or idle facilities. From time to time, markets for one or more of Gerber's main products may be affected by falling prices, unstable exchange rates, weaker global demand and shifting production bases. During those periods, Gerber's ability to achieve and sustain profitability may depend to a significant degree on its ability to reduce costs (including the costs of sourced materials), manage the supply chain, increase productivity levels, reposition the company within higher value-added market segments, and establish a production presence in geographic areas outside the United States. Gerber's actions in this regard may be inadequate to offset the adverse effects of the foregoing market conditions. Fluctuations in costs of purchased finished goods, components and aftermarket supplies could negatively affect Gerber's operating results. Gerber depends on finished equipment, component parts and other materials from suppliers to manufacture and distribute the systems sold by the company. Gerber also relies on suppliers to furnish its business units with aftermarket supplies. Fluctuations in the prices of all such goods, whether caused by market demand, shortages, currency exchange rates, or other factors, could adversely affect the cost basis for the production, delivery or maintenance of Gerber's products and adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Any inability of Gerber's principal business units to compete effectively would harm Gerber's operating performance and prospects. Competition has intensified in recent years within each market segment in which Gerber operates. If Gerber's business units are unable to continue to implement their strategies to lower costs, enhance the rate of product development, stimulate revenue growth, expand the geographic reach of their operations and leverage their brand names and distribution networks, Gerber may experience a decline in operating results and a deterioration in its financial condition and cash flows. Any significant impairment of Gerber's goodwill would lead to a decrease in Gerber's assets and reduction in Gerber's net operating performance. Approximately 24 percent of Gerber's total assets consisted of goodwill as of April 30, 2010. If Gerber makes changes in its business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect its business operations, Gerber may be required to record an impairment charge, which would lead to decreased assets and reduced net operating performance. Gerber tests goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, Gerber would record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of goodwill and the implied fair value of goodwill in the period the determination is made. The testing of 16 goodwill for impairment requires Gerber to make various assumptions, including significant estimates about its future performance and cash flows. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations and their future operating performance, existing or new product market acceptance, changes in competition or changes in technologies. Changes in key assumptions about Gerber's business or actual performance compared with those assumptions and Gerber's future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more reporting units, which may result in an impairment charge. Any significant impairment of Gerber's ability to realize its U.S. deferred tax assets would result in a decrease in Gerber's assets and reduction in Gerber's net income. As of April 30, 2010, Gerber had net deferred tax assets of approximately $44.4 million, of which approximately $37.8 million relate to the United States. These assets consist of tax credit carryforwards and other book-tax differences which are expected to provide tax benefit to Gerber in the future. As of April 30, 2010, Gerber expected that the recorded net deferred tax assets are fully recoverable. If Gerber’s future U.S. taxable income were to decline due to changes in business strategy, or if market or other conditions adversely affect its business operations, Gerber may be required to record a valuation allowance, which would lead to decreased assets and reduced net income. Gerber continually monitors the ability to realize all deferred tax assets and will continue to do so going forward. If Gerber were to determine that impairment of the ability to realize any deferred tax assets has occurred, Gerber would record a valuation allowance for the carrying value of those deferred tax assets in the period the determination is made. The testing of Gerber’s ability to realize deferred tax assets requires Gerber to make various assumptions, including significant estimates about its future performance and cash flows. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, future legislative and regulatory changes, changes in underlying business operations and their future operating performance, existing or new product market acceptance, changes in competition or changes in technologies. Changes in key assumptions about Gerber's business or actual performance compared with those assumptions and Gerber's future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more rep orting units, which may result in recording a valuation allowance. Risks Relating to Gerber's Sign Making and Specialty Graphics Segment Unless GSP enhances and diversifies its product lines and accelerates the pace of new product development, it risks a loss of market share and declining operating results. Gerber Scientific Products must enhance and diversify its product lines to make sign and specialty graphics production more efficient and cost effective. GSP also must respond to the transition of sign shops to digital printing systems and the impact of this transition on GSP's sales of thermal transfer equipment and consumables. Product development may be outpaced by advances in inks, substrate materials or print head technology that could alter the product preferences of end-use customers in a way that could adversely affect the level of market acceptance of GSP's future equipment offerings. Gerber’s ability to sustain the commercialization of its Solara ion inkjet printer, introduced in fiscal 2009, and effectively minimize related warranty and service costs is subject to several market, product and customer risk factors. These factors include how customers care for and maintain the machine and its operating environment; the life of the machine’s print heads; the effectiveness of cationic ink in inkjet applications; the availability of financing for customers to purchase the equipment; the speed and size of the overall economic recovery for this market segment; and the introduction of new, competing technologies. Such factors could potentially lead to additional warranty and service costs, lower customer demand, potential asset impairmen t charges or the discontinuance of the platform. If aftermarket suppliers decide to sell to its customers directly, Gerber's operating results would be adversely affected. Most aftermarket products are supplied by large industry suppliers on an OEM basis. Although Gerber believes there are alternative sources of supply, GSP and Spandex would compete with its current suppliers if current suppliers decided to sell directly to Gerber's customers, which could adversely affect this segment's operations. The non-renewal of annual distribution agreements or competition by any of GSP's key United States distributors with GSP could adversely affect GSP's operating results. GSP derives a significant percentage of its revenue from its principal United States distributors. GSP's results could be 17 negatively affected by the non-renewal of some of its distribution agreements with these distributors and by any action by the distributors to compete directly with GSP in the distribution of inkjet imaging products. If Gerber does not identify, distribute and adequately service the products sought by its end-use customers and distributors, its market position and operating results may suffer. GSP, as an original equipment manufacturer, and Spandex, as a distributor, must respond to the evolving product needs of their end-use customers. A failure to meet customer requirements could negatively affect this segment's market position and operating results. GSP and Spandex must also ensure that the products are operating correctly and that sales personnel and technicians are properly trained regarding the capabilities and calibration of new products. The increased pace of technological advances and the proliferation of new products due to low industry barriers to entry has caused end-use customers to become increasingly dependent on Gerber's business units to maintain their expertise and perform these functions. Their business could suffer if GSP and Spandex do not manage relationships with equipment and aftermarket suppliers in a manner that ensures that their end-use customers are satisfied with the services they provide. Risks Relating to Gerber's Apparel and Industrial Segment The demand for GT's products can exhibit significant short-term fluctuations due to the sensitivity of its markets to general economic conditions. Demand for products in apparel, textile, furniture and transportation industries, particularly in the United States, Europe, China and Japan, is significantly influenced by external economic factors, conditions and levels of capital investment. In addition, the retail apparel industry is highly focused on inventory management. As a result, GT's business sales volumes can be impacted by significant swings in demand within short time periods. GT may face increased competition from manufacturers of low-end products, which could lead to loss of market share and increased pricing pressure. A failure by GT to respond effectively to increased competition in the sales of low-end products, which may require GT to reduce its production costs, could result in a loss of market share, increased pressure on prices and a reduction in profit margins. The demand for low-end products, particularly CAD systems, has been increasing in growth markets such as China, India and Eastern Europe. Although many of these products have been acquired from local distributors such as GT, which minimizes shipping costs, import duties and import licensing costs, there is risk that these products could be acquired from regional distributors. Further, the introduction by competitors of spreaders and plotters in some developing countries could also result in more intense competition in markets that are expected to provid e significant growth opportunities for GT. Risks Relating to Gerber's Ophthalmic Lens Processing Segment GC's quarterly and annual operating results are subject to variation resulting from significant, but sometimes non-recurring, orders from key customers. Although Gerber Coburn has a large installed base of products in use by more than 7,000 customers, its quarterly and annual operating results can vary significantly depending on the timing and level of larger orders for its equipment and aftermarket supplies. These orders may be periodic or non-recurring, and their timing could be impacted by unanticipated changes in the requirements of its customers' end markets. GC's operating results may also vary due to the consolidation occurring within the optical lens industry, which has resulted in a smaller independent laboratory and retailer customer base. GC’s product distribution agreements with key distributors may not be renewed. A portion of GC's revenue is derived from products that are developed and manufactured by third parties. GC's distribution agreements are subject to renewal and if not renewed, GC could suffer the loss of distribution rights for products that make an important contribution to GC's operating results. 18 GC must successfully respond to market demands for new direct surfacing products or risk the loss of market share to competitors. Demand for direct surfacing products is growing within the ophthalmic laboratory segment. Direct surfacing, sometimes called digital surfacing or free-form lens processing, requires more precise and complex equipment. If GC's equipment does not achieve sufficient market acceptance, this segment may lose market share, which could adversely affect Gerber's operating results. GC's aftermarket supplies revenue may be adversely affected by reduced demand at its customer locations and by the closure of retail outlets by its customers. Aftermarket supplies revenue, which includes consumables and spare parts, can be affected by changes in production volume and demand at customers' locations. Decreased consumer demand for eyeglasses could result in lower volume at GC's customers' production facilities, which would adversely impact demand for GC's aftermarket supplies. In addition, several of GC's larger customers operate a significant number of retail outlets, and decreased demand for eyeglasses could lead to the closure of some of these customers' retail stores, which would also reduce demand for GC's aftermarket supplies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 