Item 1A. Risk Factors Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss of whom could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of key management employees, particularly our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of key personnel or the inability to attract qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Unspecified Industry and Acquired Business; Unascertainable Risks As previously discussed, following the completion of the Essex Electric Sale on January 31, 2006, the continuing operations of our Company consist of a compounding operation in Marion, Indiana, and a copper scrap reclamation operation in Jonesboro, Indiana, and the equity investment in our 46% owned affiliate Superior Cables Ltd. During February 2006, our Company entered into agreements, which if completed, will result in our increasing our investment and ownership interest in Superior Cables Ltd. Additionally, we will continue to explore and consider utilizing our available liquid assets for a range of investment and business acquisitions. However, no specific investment or acquisition opportunities have been identified. Accordingly, our shareholders currently have no basis to evaluate the comparative risks and merits of investing in the industry or business in which our Company may invest or acquire. To the extent that our Company may acquire or invest in a business in a high-risk industry, our Company will become subject to those risks. Similarly, if our Company acquires or invests in a financially unstable business or a business that is in the early stages of development, our Company will become subject to the risks to which such businesses are subject. Although management intends to consider the risks inherent in any industry and business in which we may become involved, there can be no assurance that we will correctly assess such risks. The liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected by completion of our tender offer. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and average daily trading volume for the six-month period between July 1, 2005 and December 31, 2005 was approximately 48,000 shares. On March 1, 2006, we commenced a modified “Dutch Auction” tender offer, which will expire on April 3, 2006, unless extended, (see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements). We agreed to purchase up to 6 million shares of our common stock tendered in response to the offer, representing approximately 36.3% of our outstanding common shares and, assuming conversion of all of our outstanding Series A Preferred stock, 22.3% of such common shares. The tender offer is subject to a number of terms and conditions described in the related offering materials. Completion of the purchase in accordance with the terms of our offer will significantly reduce our public float (the number of shares owned by non-affiliate stockholders and available for trading in the securities market) and could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. As a result of the change in our investment holdings, following completion of the Essex Electric Sale, we are relying on an exemption from the definition of “investment company” that will require us to take action with respect to our investments within one year. If we do not make the required changes to our investment holdings, we could be required to register as an investment company with significant restrictions on our business. The regulatory scope of the federal Investment Company Act, which was enacted principally for the purpose of regulating vehicles for pooled investments in securities, extends generally to companies engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. The Investment Company Act may, however, also be deemed to be applicable to companies that do not intend to be characterized as an investment company but which, nevertheless, may be deemed to be within the definitional scope of certain provisions of the Investment Company Act. In general, unless exclusion applies, a company is an investment company if it owns “investment securities” with a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets on an unconsolidated basis, excluding government securities and cash items. We do not intend and do not consider our company to be an investment company and our anticipated activities involve exploring the acquisition of one or more operating businesses. However, from the time of the sale of the building wire assets of Essex Electric and the collection of its retained accounts receivable, the composition of our investment portfolio has caused us to fall within the definition of an investment company. Therefore, we are now relying on a one-year temporary exclusion for companies that are in transition and that have a bona fide intent to be engaged primarily in a business other than investing in securities as soon as possible, but in any event within one year. If by February 28, 2007, we are deemed to be an investment company, our activities would be restricted, including restrictions on the nature of our investments and the issuance or repurchase of securities. We would most likely be required to register under the Investment Company Act and file reports, and adopt corporate governance rules including significant reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, disclosure and other rules and regulations. In the event we were deemed to be an investment company, our failure to satisfy such regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. 4 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 