ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by the global economic environment or downturns in the target markets that we serve. Adverse global economic conditions could impact our target markets resulting in decreased demand for our products. Approximately 17% of our net sales in 2012 were shipped to customers in western Europe, the demand for which, in many cases, is dependent on economic conditions in this area, and to the extent customers do business outside of Europe, in other regions of the world. Our results could be adversely affected if economic conditions weaken or fail to improve. Also, there may be periods during which demand for our products is insufficient to enable us to operate our production facilities in an economical manner. The economic environment may cause customer insolvencies which may result in their inability to satisfy their financial obligations to us. These conditions are beyond our ability to control and may have a significant impact on our sales and results of operations. The markets for our products are also significantly affected by changes in industry capacity and output. There have been periods of supply/demand imbalance in our industry which have caused pulp prices and our products’ selling prices to be volatile. The timing and magnitude of price increases or decreases in these markets have generally varied by region and by product type. A sustained period of weak demand or excess supply would likely adversely affect pulp prices and our products’ selling prices. This could have a material adverse affect on our operating and financial results. The cost of raw materials and energy used to manufacture our products could increase and the availability of certain raw materials could become constrained. We require access to sufficient and reasonably priced quantities of pulpwood, purchased pulps, pulp substitutes, abaca fiber, synthetic fibers, and certain other raw materials. Our Spring Grove and Chillicothe locations are vertically integrated manufacturing facilities that generate approximately 82% of their annual pulp requirements. Our Philippine mill purchases abaca fiber to produce abaca pulp, which we use to manufacture our paper for single-serve coffee, tea and technical specialty products at our Gernsbach, Scaër and Lydney facilities. At certain times in the past, the supply of abaca fiber has been constrained due to factors such as weather related damage to the source crop as well as decisions by land owners to produce alternative crops in lieu of those used to produce abaca fiber. Our Advanced Airlaid Materials business unit requires access to sufficient quantities of fluff pulp, the supply of which is subject to availability of certain softwoods. Softwood availability can be limited by many factors, including weather in regions where softwoods are abundant. The cost of many of our production materials, including petroleum based chemicals, and freight charges, are influenced by the cost of oil. In addition, coal is a principal source of fuel for both the Spring Grove and Chillicothe facilities and natural gas is used as a source of fuel for our Chillicothe facility, and the Composite Fibers and Advanced Airlaid Materials business units’ facilities. Although we have contractual cost pass-through arrangements with certain customers, we may not be able to fully pass increased raw materials or energy costs on to all customers if the market will not bear the higher price or where existing agreements with our customers limit price increases. If price adjustments significantly trail increases in raw materials or energy prices, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our industry is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce our sales and profitability. In the past, global industries in which we compete have been adversely affected by capacity exceeding the demand for products and by declining uncoated free sheet demand. As a result, steps have been taken to reduce underperforming capacity. However, slowing demand or increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our gross margins and net income. The greater financial resources of certain of our competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Certain competitors may also have the ability to develop product or service innovations that could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Some of the factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete in the markets in which we participate include: • the entry of new competitors into the markets we serve, including foreign producers; • the willingness of commodity-based producers to enter our markets when they are unable to compete or when demand softens in their traditional markets; Glatfelter 2012 Form 10-K 7 Table of Contents • the aggressiveness of our competitors’ pricing strategies, which could force us to decrease prices in order to maintain market share; • our failure to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences; • the impact of electronic-based substitutes for certain of our products such as carbonless and forms, book publishing, and envelope papers; • the impact of replacement or disruptive technologies; • changes in end-user preferences; • our inability to develop new, improved or enhanced products; and • our inability to maintain the cost efficiency of our facilities. If we cannot effectively compete in the markets in which we operate, our sales and operating results would be adversely affected. We may not be able to develop new products acceptable to our customers. Our business strategy is market focused and includes investments in developing new products to meet the changing needs of our customers and to maintain our market share. Our success will depend, in part on our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that keep pace with introductions by our competitors and changing customer preferences. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to these factors, we may lose opportunities for business with both current and potential customers. The success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • anticipate and properly identify our customers’ needs and industry trends; • price our products competitively; • develop and commercialize new products and applications in a timely manner; • differentiate our products from our competitors’ products; and • invest efficiently in research and development activities. Our inability to develop new products could adversely impact our business and ultimately harm our profitability. We are subject to substantial costs and potential liability for environmental matters. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including discharges into the environment, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. We are also subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. The Clean Air Act, and similar regulations, could impose significant compliance costs or require significant capital expenditures. To comply with environmental laws and regulations, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial capital and operating expenditures. We anticipate that environmental regulation of our operations will continue to become more burdensome and that capital and operating expenditures necessary to comply with environmental regulations will continue, and perhaps increase, in the future. Because environmental regulations are not consistent worldwide, our ability to compete globally may be adversely affected by capital and operating expenditures required for environmental compliance. In addition, we may incur obligations to remove or mitigate any adverse effects on the environment, such as air and water quality, resulting from mills we operate or have operated. Potential obligations include compensation for the restoration of natural resources, personal injury and property damages. Despite favorable rulings in the pending Fox River litigation, we continue to have exposure to liability for remediation and other costs related to the presence of polychlorinated biphenyls in the lower Fox River on which our former Neenah, Wisconsin mill was located. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to ultimately pay material amounts to resolve our liability in the Fox River matter. We have financial reserves for environmental matters, including the Fox River site, but we cannot be certain that those reserves will be adequate to provide for future obligations related to these matters, that our share of costs and/or damages for these matters will not exceed our available resources, or that such obligations will not have a long-term, material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Our environmental issues are complex and should be reviewed in the context set forth in more detail in Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 21. 8 Table of Contents The Advanced Airlaid Materials business unit generates a substantial portion of its revenue from one customer serving the hygiene products market, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Advanced Airlaid Materials generates the majority of its net sales of hygiene products from one customer. The loss of this significant customer could have a material adverse effect on their operating results. In addition, sales in the feminine hygiene market accounted for 80% of Advanced Airlaid Materials’ net sales in 2012 and sales are concentrated within a small group of large customers. A decline in sales of hygiene products could have a material adverse effect on this unit’s operating results. Customers in the airlaid non-woven fabric material market, including the hygiene market, may also switch to less expensive products, change preferences or otherwise reduce demand for Advanced Airlaid Material’s products, thus reducing the size of the markets in which it currently sells its products. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and business prospects. Our operations may be impaired and we may be exposed to potential losses and liability as a result of natural disasters, acts of terrorism or sabotage or similar events. If we have a catastrophic loss or unforeseen operational problem at certain of our facilities, we could suffer significant lost production which could impair our ability to satisfy customer demands. Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, flooding or fire, and acts of terrorism or sabotage affecting our operating activities and major facilities could materially and adversely affect our operations, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we own and maintain four dams in York County, Pennsylvania, that were built to ensure a steady supply of water for the operation of our facility in Spring Grove which is a primary manufacturing location for our envelope papers and engineered products. Each of these dams is classified as “high hazard” by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania because they are located in close proximity to inhabited areas. Any sudden failure of a dam, including as a result of natural disaster or act of terrorism or sabotage, would endanger occupants and residential, commercial and industrial structures, for which we could be liable. The failure of a dam could also be extremely disruptive and result in damage to or the shutdown of our Spring Grove mill. Any losses or liabilities incurred due to the failure of one of our dams may not be fully covered by our insurance policies or may substantially exceed the limits of our policies, and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, many of our papermaking operations require a reliable and abundant supply of water. Such mills rely on a local water body or water source for their water needs and, therefore, are particularly impacted by drought conditions or other natural or manmade interruptions to its water supplies. At various times and for differing periods, each of our mills has had to modify operations due to water shortages, water clarity, or low flow conditions in its principal water supplies. Any interruption or curtailment of operations at any of our paper mills due to drought or low flow conditions at the principal water source or another cause could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our pulp mill in Lanao del Norte on the Island of Mindanao in the Republic of the Philippines is located along the Pacific Rim, one of the world’s hazard belts. By virtue of its geographic location, this mill is subject to, among similar types of natural disasters discussed above, cyclones, typhoons, and volcanic activity. Moreover, the area of Lanao del Norte has been a target of suspected terrorist activities. The most common bomb targets in Lanao del Norte to date have been power transmission towers. Our pulp mill in Mindanao is located in a rural portion of the island and is susceptible to attacks or power interruptions. The Mindanao mill supplies approximately 85% of the abaca pulp that is used by our Composite Fibers business unit to manufacture our paper for single serve coffee and tea products and certain technical specialties products. Any interruption, loss or extended curtailment of operations at our Mindanao mill could materially affect our operating results and financial condition. We have operations in a potentially politically and economically unstable location. Our pulp mill in the Philippines is located in a region that is unstable and subject to political unrest. As discussed above, our Philippine pulp mill produces abaca pulp, a significant raw material used by our Composite Fibers business unit, and is currently our main provider of abaca pulp. There are limited suitable alternative sources of readily available abaca pulp in the world. In the event of a disruption in supply from our Philippine mill, there is no guarantee that we could obtain adequate amounts of abaca pulp from alternative sources at a reasonable price or at all. As a consequence, any civil disturbance, unrest, political instability or other event that causes a disruption in supply could limit the availability of abaca pulp and would increase our cost of obtaining abaca pulp. Such occurrences could adversely impact our sales volumes, revenues and operating results. Glatfelter 2012 Form 10-K 9 Table of Contents Our international operations pose certain risks that may adversely impact sales and earnings. We have significant operations and assets located in Canada, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, and the Philippines. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of unique risks, in addition to the risks in our domestic sales and operations, including differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, differing regulatory environments, difficulty in managing widespread operations and political instability. These factors may adversely affect our future profits. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions, we may be subject to laws limiting the right and ability of entities organized or operating therein to pay dividends or remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met. Any such limitations would restrict our flexibility in using funds generated in those jurisdictions. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. As we diversify our business and expand our global footprint, an increasing proportion of our revenue is generated outside of the United States. We also own and operate manufacturing facilities in Canada, Germany, France, the United Kingdom and the Philippines. Currently, the majority of our business is transacted in U.S. dollars; however, an increasing portion of business is transacted in Euros, British Pound Sterling, Canadian dollars or Philippine Peso. With respect to the Euro, we generate substantially greater cash inflow in this currency than we do outflow. However, with respect to the British Pound Sterling, Canadian dollar, and Philippine Peso, we have greater outflows than inflows of these currencies. As a result of these positions, we are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates. Uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations and actions proposed to restructure such obligations may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate further. In the event that one or more European countries were to replace the euro with another currency, business may be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. Our ability to maintain our products’ price competitiveness is reliant, in part, on the relative strength of the currency in which the product is denominated compared to the currency of the market into which it is sold and the functional currency of our competitors. Changes in the rate of exchange of foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar, and other currencies, may adversely impact our results of operations and our ability to offer products in certain markets at acceptable prices. An IRS audit of our 2009 tax return could result in a change in the tax treatment of the alternative fuel mixture credits we claimed in 2009, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. The U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or the Code, provided a tax credit for companies that used alternative fuel mixtures to produce energy to operate their businesses on or prior to December 31, 2009. During 2009, we registered two of our facilities with the IRS as alternative fuel mixers based on their use of black liquor as an alternative fuel source. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had substantial alternative fuel mixture credits relating to these facilities. Our results of operations in 2009 included, on a pre-tax basis, $107.8 million of alternative fuel mixture credits. During 2012, we amended our 2009 federal income tax return to convert a portion of the alternative fuel mixture credits for cellulosic biofuel production credits. In the event that the IRS audits our tax return for the year ended December 31, 2009, the IRS may conclude that some or all of the credits claimed are subject to federal income taxes, which would subject us to additional tax liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In the event any of the above risk factors impact our business in a material way or in combination during the same period, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to simultaneously fund our operations, finance capital expenditures, satisfy obligations and make dividend payments on our common stock. In addition to debt service obligations, our business is capital intensive and requires significant expenditures to support growth strategies, research and development initiatives, environmental compliance, and for normal upgrades or replacements. We expect to meet all of our near and long-term cash needs from a combination of operating cash flow, cash and cash equivalents, our existing credit facility and other long-term debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from these sources, we could be unable to meet our near and long-term cash needs or make dividend payments. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 