ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business The cost of raw materials and energy used to manufacture our products could increase and the availability of certain raw materials could become more constrained. We require access to sufficient and reasonably priced quantities of pulpwood, purchased pulps, pulp substitutes, abaca fiber and certain other raw materials. Our Spring Grove and Chillicothe locations are vertically integrated manufacturing facilities that generate in excess of 85% of their annual pulp requirements. However, as a result of selling timberlands over the past two years, purchased timber will represent a larger source of the total pulpwood used in our operations. Our Philippine mill purchases abaca fiber to make pulp, which we use to manufacture our composite fiber products at our Gernsbach, Scaër and Lydney facilities. However, the supply of abaca fiber has been constrained due to severe weather related damage to the source crop as well as selection by land owners of alternative uses of land in lieu of fiber producing activities. As a result of supply constraints, pricing pressure persists. The cost of many of our production materials and costs, including petroleum based chemicals and freight charges, are influenced by the cost of oil. In addition, coal is a principal source fuel for both the Spring Grove and Chillicothe facilities. Natural gas is the principal source of fuel for our Chillicothe and Composite Fibers’ business unit facilities. Natural gas prices have increased significantly in the United States since 2000. We may not be able to pass increased raw materials or energy costs on to our customers if the market will not bear the higher price or where existing agreements with our customers limit price increases. If price adjustments significantly trail increases in raw materials or energy prices our operating results could be adversely affected. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by downturns in the target markets that we serve. Demand for our products in the markets we serve is primarily driven by consumption of the products we produce, which is most often affected by general economic conditions. Downturns in our target markets could result in decreased demand for our products. In particular, our business may be adversely affected during periods of economic weakness by the general softness in these target markets. Our results could be adversely affected if economic conditions weaken or fail to improve. Also, there may be periods during which demand for our products is insufficient to enable us to operate our production facilities in an economical manner. These conditions are beyond our ability to control and may have a significant impact on our sales and results of operations. In addition to fluctuations in demand for our products in the markets we serve, the markets for our paper products are also significantly affected by changes in industry capacity and output levels. There have been periods of supply/demand imbalance in the pulp and paper industry, which have caused pulp and paper prices to be volatile. The timing and magnitude of price increases or decreases in the pulp and paper market have generally varied by region and by product type. A sustained period of weak demand or excess supply would likely adversely affect pulp and paper prices. This could have a material adverse affect on our operating and financial results. Our industry is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce our sales and profitability. In recent years, the global paper industry in which we compete has been adversely affected by paper producing capacity exceeding the demand for products. As a result, the uncoated free sheet industry has taken steps to reduce underperforming capacity. However, slowing demand or increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our gross margins and net income. The greater financial resources of certain of our competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Certain competitors may also have the ability to develop product or service innovations that could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Some of the factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete in the markets in which we participate include: • the entry of new competitors into the markets we serve, including foreign producers; • the willingness of commodity-based paper producers to enter our specialty markets when they are unable to compete or when demand softens in their traditional markets; -6- GLATFELTER • the aggressiveness of our competitors’ pricing strategies, which could force us to decrease prices in order to maintain market share; • our failure to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences; • our inability to develop new, improved or enhanced products; and • our inability to maintain the cost efficiency of our facilities. If we cannot effectively compete in the markets in which we operate, our sales and operating results would be adversely affected. We may not be able to develop new products acceptable to our customers. Our business strategy is market focused and includes investments in developing new products to meet the changing needs of our customers and to maintain our market share. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that keep pace with introductions by our competitors and changing customer preferences. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to these factors, we may lose opportunities for business with both current and potential customers. The success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to, • anticipate and properly identify our customers’ needs and industry trends; • price our products competitively; • develop and commercialize new products and applications in a timely manner; • differentiate our products from our competitors’ products; and • invest in research and development activities efficiently. Our inability to develop new products could adversely impact our business and ultimately harm our profitability. We are subject to substantial costs and potential liability for environmental matters. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including discharges into the environment, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. We are also subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. To comply with environmental laws and regulations, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial capital and operating expenditures. We anticipate that environmental regulation of our operations will continue to become more burdensome and that capital and operating expenditures necessary to comply with environmental regulations will continue, and perhaps increase, in the future. Because environmental regulations are not consistent worldwide, our ability to compete in the world marketplace may be adversely affected by capital and operating expenditures required for environmental compliance. In addition, we may incur obligations to remove or mitigate any adverse effects on the environment, such as air and water quality, resulting from mills we operate or have operated. Potential obligations include compensation for the restoration of natural resources, personal injury and property damages. We are liable for remediation on costs related to the presence of polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs, in the lower Fox River on which our former Neenah, Wisconsin mill was located. We have financial reserves for environmental matters but we cannot be certain that those reserves will be adequate to provide for future obligations related to these matters, that our share of costs and/or damages for these matters will not exceed our available resources, or that such obligations will not have a long-term, material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Our environmental issues are complicated and should be reviewed in context; please see a more detailed discussion of these matters in Item 8 – Financial Statements, Note 20 We have operations in a potentially politically and economically unstable location. We own and operate a pulp mill in the Philippines where the operating environment is unstable and subject to political unrest. Our Philippine pulp mill produces abaca pulp, a significant raw material used by our Composite Fibers business unit. Our Philippine pulp mill is currently our main provider of abaca pulp. There are limited suitable alternative sources of readily available abaca pulp in the world. In the event of a disruption in supply from our Philippine mill, there is no guarantee that we could obtain adequate amounts of abaca pulp from alternative sources at a reasonable price or at all. As a consequence, any civil disturbance, unrest, political instability or other event that causes a disruption in supply could limit the availability of abaca pulp and would increase our cost of obtaining -7- GLATFELTER abaca pulp. Such occurrences could adversely impact our sales volumes, revenues and operating results. Our international operations pose certain risks that may adversely impact sales and earnings. We have significant operations and assets located in Germany, France, the United Kingdom, and the Philippines. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of special risks, in addition to the risks in our domestic sales and operations, including differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, differing regulatory environments, difficulty in managing widespread operations and political instability. These factors may adversely affect our future profits. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions, we may be subject to laws limiting the right and ability of entities organized or operating therein to pay dividends or remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met. Any such limitations would restrict our flexibility in using funds generated in those jurisdictions. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We own and operate paper and pulp mills in Germany, France, the United Kingdom and the Philippines. The local currency in Germany and France is the Euro, in the UK the British Pound Sterling, and in the Philippines the Peso. During 2007, Euro functional currency operations generated approximately 19.9% of our sales and 18.8% of operating expenses and British Pound Sterling operations represented 7.6% of net sales and 7.8% of operating expenses. The translation of the results from these international operations into U.S. dollars is subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our ability to maintain our products’ price competitiveness is reliant, in part, on the relative strength of the currency in which the product is denominated compared to the currency of the market into which it is sold and the functional currency of our competitors. Changes in the rate of exchange of foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar, and other currencies, may adversely impact our results of operations and our ability to offer products in certain markets at acceptable prices. In the event any of the above risk factors impact our business in a material way or in combination during the same period, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to simultaneously fund our operations, finance capital expenditures, satisfy obligations and make dividend payments on our common stock. In addition to debt service obligations, our business is capital intensive and requires significant expenditures for equipment maintenance, new or enhanced equipment, environmental compliance, and research and development to support our business strategies. We expect to meet all of our near and long-term cash needs from a combination of operating cash flow, cash and cash equivalents, our existing credit facility and other long-term debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from these sources, we could be unable to meet our near and long-term cash needs or make dividend payments. 