Item 1A Risk Factors, one customer accounted for the majority of Advanced Airlaid Materials net sales in 2010. Capital Expenditures Our business is capital intensive and requires extensive expenditures for new and enhanced equipment. These capital investments are necessary for environmental compliance, normal upgrades or replacements, business strategy and research and development. For 2011, we expect capital expenditures to total approximately $60 million to $65 million. Environmental Matters We are subject to laws and regulations which operate to protect the environment as well as human health and safety. We have, at various times, incurred significant costs to comply with those regulations, as new regulations are developed or regulatory priorities change. Currently, we anticipate that we could incur material capital and operating costs to comply with several air quality regulations including the U.S. EPA Best Available Retrofit Technology rule (BART; otherwise known as the Regional Haze Rule) and the Boiler Maximum Achievable Control Technology rule (Boiler MACT). Although we are in the process of analyzing the potential impact of these requirements, compliance could require significant capital expenditures. For a discussion of other environmental matters, see Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 20. Employees The following table summarizes our workforce as of December 31, 2010: Contract Period Location Total Hourly(1) Salaried Start End Union U.S. Corporate/Spring Grove 969 603 366 Jan. 2011 Jan. 2014 United Steelworkers International Chillicothe/Fremont 1,399 1,051 348 Aug. 2009 Aug. 2012 Union and the Office and Professional Employees International Union, International Gernsbach, Germany 602 364 238 Sept. 2010 Nov. 2012 Industriegewerkschaft Bergbau, Chemie, Energie-IG BCE Scaër, France 118 70 48 Nov. 2008 Nov. 2012 Confederation Generale des Travailleurs & Force Ouvriere Lydney, England 283 211 72 Feb. 2011 Feb. 2012 Unite the Union Caerphilly, Wales 125 83 42 Jan. 2011 Jan. 2012 General Maintenance & Boiler’s Philippines 92 63 29 Sept. 2007 Sept. 2012 Newtech Pulp Workers Union & Federation of Democratic Labor Org. Falkenhagen, Germany 425 344 81 n/a n/a Works Council Gatineau, Canada 324 240 84 Jan. 2010 Dec. 2013 La fraternité inter-provinciale des ouvriers en électricités Jul. 2010 Dec. 2011 Le syndicat canadien des communications, de l’énergie et du papier Total worldwide employees 4,337 3,029 1,308 (1) Generally, the majority of the hourly employees included in the table above are covered by terms and conditions of the collective bargaining agreements with the respective labor organization indicated. We consider the overall relationship with our employees to be satisfactory. Available Information On our investor relations page of our Corporate website at www.glatfelter.com we make available free of charge our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and other related information as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, our website includes a Corporate Governance page consisting of, among others, our Governance Principles and Code of Business Conduct, and biographies of our Board of Directors and Executive Officers, Audit, Compensation, Finance and Nominating Committees of the Board of Directors and their respective Charters, Code of Business Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers of Glatfelter, our “whistle-blower” policy and other related material. We satisfy the disclosure requirement for any future amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct or Code of Business Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers by posting such information on our website. We will provide a copy of the Code of Business Conduct or Code of Business Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers, without charge, to any person who requests one, by calling (717) 225-2724. 6 Table of Contents ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by the adverse global economic environment or downturns in the target markets that we serve. Demand for our products in the markets we serve is primarily driven by demand for our customers’ products, which is often affected by general economic conditions. Downturns in our target markets could result in decreased demand for our products. In particular, our businesses may be adversely affected in the event of weak global economic conditions and by softness in targeted markets. Our results could be adversely affected if economic conditions weaken or fail to continue to improve. Also, there may be periods during which demand for our products is insufficient to enable us to operate our production facilities in an economical manner. The economic impact may cause customer insolvencies which may result in their inability to satisfy their financial obligations to us. These conditions are beyond our ability to control and may have a significant impact on our sales and results of operations. In addition to fluctuations in demand for our products in the markets we serve, the markets for our products are also significantly affected by changes in industry capacity and output levels. There have been periods of supply/demand imbalance in our industry which have caused wood pulp, fluff pulp and selling prices to be volatile. The timing and magnitude of price increases or decreases in these markets have generally varied by region and by product type. A sustained period of weak demand or excess supply would likely adversely affect pulp, fluff pulp and selling prices. This could have a material adverse affect on our operating and financial results. The cost of raw materials and energy used to manufacture our products could increase and the availability of certain raw materials could become constrained. We require access to sufficient and reasonably priced quantities of pulpwood, purchased pulps, pulp substitutes, abaca fiber and certain other raw materials. Our Spring Grove and Chillicothe locations are vertically integrated manufacturing facilities that generate approximately 85% of their annual pulp requirements. Our Philippine mill purchases abaca fiber to produce abaca pulp, which we use to manufacture our paper for tea bags and single serve coffee products at our Gernsbach, Scaër and Lydney facilities. However, at certain times in the past, the supply of abaca fiber has been constrained due to factors such as weather related damage to the source crop as well as selection by land owners of alternative uses of land in lieu of fiber producing activities. Our Advanced Airlaid Materials business unit requires access to sufficient quantities of fluff pulp, the supply of which is subject to availability of certain softwoods. Softwood availability can be limited by many factors, including, weather in regions where softwoods are abundant. The cost of many of our production materials, including petroleum based chemicals, and freight charges, are influenced by the cost of oil. In addition, coal is a principal source of fuel for both the Spring Grove and Chillicothe facilities and natural gas is used as a source of fuel for our Chillicothe facility, and the Composite Fibers and Advanced Airlaid Materials business units’ facilities. In addition, our vendors’ liquidity may be impacted by the economy creating supply shortages. Although we have contractual cost pass-through arrangements with certain customers we may not be able to fully pass increased raw materials or energy costs on to all customers if the market will not bear the higher price or where existing agreements with our customers limit price increases. If price adjustments significantly trail increases in raw materials or energy prices our operating results could be adversely affected. Our industry is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce our sales and profitability. In recent years, the global industries in which we compete have been adversely affected by capacity exceeding the demand for products and by declining uncoated free sheet demand. As a result, steps have been taken to reduce underperforming capacity. However. slowing demand or increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our gross margins and net income. The greater financial resources of certain of our competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Certain competitors may also have the ability to develop product or service innovations that could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Some of the factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete in the markets in which we participate include: • the entry of new competitors into the markets we serve, including foreign producers; • the willingness of commodity-based producers to enter our markets when they are unable to Glatfelter 2010 Annual Report 7 Table of Contents compete or when demand softens in their traditional markets; • the aggressiveness of our competitors’ pricing strategies, which could force us to decrease prices in order to maintain market share; • our failure to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences; • the impact of emerging electronic-based substitutes for certain of our products such as book publishing and envelope; • the impact of replacement or disruptive technologies; • our inability to develop new, improved or enhanced products; and • our inability to maintain the cost efficiency of our facilities. If we cannot effectively compete in the markets in which we operate, our sales and operating results would be adversely affected. We may not be able to develop new products acceptable to our customers. Our business strategy is market focused and includes investments in developing new products to meet the changing needs of our customers and to maintain our market share. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that keep pace with introductions by our competitors and changing customer preferences. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to these factors, we may lose opportunities for business with both current and potential customers. The success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • anticipate and properly identify our customers’ needs and industry trends; • price our products competitively; • develop and commercialize new products and applications in a timely manner; • differentiate our products from our competitors’ products; and • invest in research and development activities efficiently. Our inability to develop new products could adversely impact our business and ultimately harm our profitability. We are subject to substantial costs and potential liability for environmental matters. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including discharges into the environment, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. We are also subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. To comply with environmental laws and regulations, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial capital and operating expenditures. We anticipate that environmental regulation of our operations will continue to become more burdensome and that capital and operating expenditures necessary to comply with environmental regulations will continue, and perhaps increase, in the future. Because environmental regulations are not consistent worldwide, our ability to compete globally may be adversely affected by capital and operating expenditures required for environmental compliance. In addition, we may incur obligations to remove or mitigate any adverse effects on the environment, such as air and water quality, resulting from mills we operate or have operated. Potential obligations include compensation for the restoration of natural resources, personal injury and property damages. Despite the December 2009 and March 2011 favorable rulings in the pending Fox River litigation, we continue to have exposure to liability for remediation and other costs related to the presence of polychlorinated biphenyls in the lower Fox River on which our former Neenah, Wisconsin mill was located. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to ultimately pay material amounts to resolve our liability in the Fox River matter. We have financial reserves for environmental matters, including the Fox River site, but we cannot be certain that those reserves will be adequate to provide for future obligations related to these matters, that our share of costs and/or damages for these matters will not exceed our available resources, or that such obligations will not have a long-term, material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Our environmental issues are complicated and should be reviewed in context; please see a more detailed discussion of these matters in Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 20. 8 Table of Contents The Advanced Airlaid Materials business unit generates a substantial portion of its revenue from one customer serving the feminine hygiene products market, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Advanced Airlaid Materials generates the majority of its net sales of feminine hygiene products in 2010 from one customer. The loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on their operating results. In addition, sales in the feminine hygiene market accounted for approximately 81% of Advanced Airlaid Materials’ net sales in 2010. A decline in sales of feminine hygiene products or in sales of feminine hygiene products generally could have a material adverse effect on this unit’s operating results. Customers in the airlaid non-woven fabric material market, including the feminine hygiene market, may also switch to less expensive products or otherwise reduce demand for Advanced Airlaid Material’s products, thus reducing the size of the markets in which it currently sells its products. Any of the foregoing could result in our failing to realize the benefits of the acquisition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and business prospects. Our operations may be impaired and we may be exposed to potential losses and liability as a result of natural disasters, acts of terrorism or sabotage or similar events. Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, flooding or fire, and acts of terrorism or sabotage affecting our operating activities and major facilities could materially and adversely affect our operations, our operating results and financial condition. In particular, we own and operate four dams in York County, Pennsylvania that were built to ensure a steady supply of water for the operation of our paper mill in Spring Grove, Pennsylvania, which is a primary manufacturing location for our envelope papers and engineered products. Each of these dams is classified as “high hazard” by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania because they are located in close proximity to inhabited areas and sudden failure would endanger occupants or residential, commercial or industrial structures. Failure or breach of any of the dams, including as a result of natural disaster or act of terrorism or sabotage, could cause significant personal injuries and damage to residential and commercial property downstream for which we may be liable. The failure of a dam could also be extremely disruptive and result in damage to or the shutdown of our Spring Grove mill. Any losses or liabilities incurred due to the failure of one of our dams may not be fully covered by our insurance policies or may substantially exceed the limits of our policies, and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, many of our paper making operations require a reliable and abundant supply of water. Such mills rely on a local water body or water source for their water needs and, therefore, are particularly impacted by drought conditions or other natural or manmade interruptions to its water supplies. At various times and for differing periods, each of our mills has had to modify operations due to water shortages or low flow conditions in its principal water supplies. Any interruption or curtailment of operations at any of our paper mills due to drought or low flow conditions at the principal water source or another cause could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our pulp mill in Lanao del Norte on the Island of Mindanao in the Republic of the Philippines is located along the Pacific Rim in the world’s hazard belt. By virtue of its geographic location, this mill is subject to, among other types of natural disasters, floods, droughts, cyclones, typhoons, earthquakes, windstorms and volcanic activity. Moreover, the area of Lanao del Norte has been a target of terrorist activities, including bombings, by suspected members of the al-Qaeda-linked Islamist groups in the Philippines, such as the Abu Sayyaf and the Rajah Solaiman Group and other Islamic militant groups, most notably the Moro Islamic Liberation Front. The most common bomb targets in Lanao del Norte to date have been power transmission towers. Our pulp mill in Mindanao is located in a rural portion of the island and is susceptible to attacks or power interruptions. The Mindanao mill supplies approximately 80% of the abaca pulp that is used by our Composite Fibers business unit to manufacture our paper for tea bags and single serve coffee products. Any interruption, loss or extended curtailment of operations at our Mindanao mill could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We have operations in a potentially politically and economically unstable location. Our pulp mill in the Philippines is located in a region that is unstable and subject to political unrest. As discussed above, our Philippine pulp mill produces abaca pulp, a significant raw material used by our Composite Fibers business unit, and is currently our main provider of abaca pulp. There are limited suitable alternative sources of readily available abaca pulp in the world. In the event of a disruption in supply from our Philippine mill, there is no guarantee that we could obtain adequate amounts of abaca pulp from alternative sources at a reasonable price or at all. As a consequence, any civil disturbance, unrest, political instability or other event that causes a disruption Glatfelter 2010 Annual Report 9 Table of Contents in supply could limit the availability of abaca pulp and would increase our cost of obtaining abaca pulp. Such occurrences could adversely impact our sales volumes, revenues and operating results. Our international operations pose certain risks that may adversely impact sales and earnings. We have significant operations and assets located in Canada, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, and the Philippines. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of special risks, in addition to the risks in our domestic sales and operations, including differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, differing regulatory environments, difficulty in managing widespread operations and political instability. These factors may adversely affect our future profits. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions, we may be subject to laws limiting the right and ability of entities organized or operating therein to pay dividends or remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met. Any such limitations would restrict our flexibility in using funds generated in those jurisdictions. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We own and operate manufacturing facilities in Canada, Germany, France, the United Kingdom and the Philippines. The majority of our business is transacted in U.S. dollars; however, a substantial portion of business is transacted in Euros, British Pound Sterling and Canadian dollars. With respect to the Euro, we generate substantially greater cash inflow in these currencies than we do outflow. However, with respect to the British Pound Sterling and the Philippine Peso, we have greater outflows than inflows of this currency. As a result of these positions, we are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates. Our ability to maintain our products’ price competitiveness is reliant, in part, on the relative strength of the currency in which the product is denominated compared to the currency of the market into which it is sold and the functional currency of our competitors. Changes in the rate of exchange of foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar, and other currencies, may adversely impact our results of operations and our ability to offer products in certain markets at acceptable prices. Substantially lower and more volatile market-based prices for sales of excess electricity compared to the fixed-price we historically received may prevent us from achieving the historical margins on our sales of excess electricity in relation to our coal supply contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Because our Spring Grove facility produces more electricity than it requires for its operations, we sell the excess energy produced. Historically, we sold the excess electricity to the local power company under a fixed-price long-term contract, which expired March 31, 2010. We now sell our excess electricity at wholesale market prices prevailing at the time of sale. Market prices for electricity have historically been volatile and may continue to be substantially lower than the price we historically received under the expired contract. We generate electricity at our Spring Grove facility using a variety of fuels, including coal. We purchase coal for this facility under a long-term, fixed price supply contract, which expires at the end of 2012. Our cost of coal, as well as the costs incurred for natural gas and other fuels used to generate electricity, have a major impact on the net revenue and overall profitability of our Specialty Paper business unit. The combination of market-based pricing for energy sales and the fixed pricing of the coal contract may limit our ability to generate the level of net revenues from energy sales that we historically achieved and limit the overall profitability of our Specialty Papers business unit, which could have a material adverse affect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. An IRS audit of our 2009 tax return could result in a change in the tax treatment of the alternative fuel mixture credits we claimed in 2009, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. The U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or the Code, provided a tax credit for companies that used alternative fuel mixtures to produce energy to operate their businesses on or prior to December 31, 2009. During 2009, we registered two of our facilities with the IRS as alternative fuel mixers based on their use of black liquor as an alternative fuel source. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had substantial alternative fuel mixture credits relating to these facilities. Our results of operations in 2009 included, on a pre-tax basis, $107.8 million of alternative fuel mixture credits all of which has been used or realized in cash. In the event that the IRS audits 10 Table of Contents our tax return for the year ended December 31, 2009, the IRS may conclude that some or all of the credits claimed are subject to federal income taxes, which would subject us to additional tax liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In the event any of the above risk factors impact our business in a material way or in combination during the same period, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to simultaneously fund our operations, finance capital expenditures, satisfy obligations and make dividend payments on our common stock. In addition to debt service obligations, our business is capital intensive and requires significant expenditures for equipment maintenance, new or enhanced equipment, environmental compliance, and research and development to support our business strategies. We expect to meet all of our near and long-term cash needs from a combination of operating cash flow, cash and cash equivalents, our existing credit facility and other long-term debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from these sources, we could be unable to meet our near and long-term cash needs or make dividend payments. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 