ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, certain statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that such plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements include those set forth in this Risk Factors section. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or any persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements set forth below. Unless the context requires otherwise, all references to the “company,” “we,” “us” or “our” include Industrial Services of America, Inc. and subsidiaries. If any of the following risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to not be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. 7 Risks Related to Our Operations Our business has increasing involvement in stainless steel, ferrous, non-ferrous and fiber recycling. Changes in prices, demand, including foreign demand, regulation, economic slowdowns or increased competition could result in a reduction of our revenue and consequent decrease in our common stock price. Many companies offer or are engaged in the development of products or the provisions of services that may be or are competitive with our current products or services, although we do not believe any competition offers the unique mixture of the services and products we provide in the waste management and scrap recycling areas. Many entities have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than we possess in the stainless steel, ferrous, non-ferrous and fiber recycling businesses. In addition, the industry is constantly changing as a result of consolidation that may create additional competitive pressures in our business environment. Volatility in market prices of our scrap metal recycling inventory may adversely affect our business. We make certain assumptions regarding future demand and net realizable value in order to assess that we record our stainless steel, ferrous, non-ferrous and fiber recycling inventory properly at the lower of cost or market. We base our assumptions on historical experience, current market conditions and current replacement costs. If the anticipated future selling prices of scrap metal and finished steel products should decline due to the cyclicality of the business or otherwise, we would re-assess the recorded net realizable value of such inventory and make any adjustments we feel necessary in order to reduce the value of such inventory (and increase cost of goods sold) to the lower of cost or market. As of January 4, 2010, we began using the specific identification method of valuing inventory. See Note 1 in the notes to the financial statements. An increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our business. Our operations are dependent upon fuel, which we generally purchase in the open market on a daily basis. Direct fuel costs include the cost of fuel and other petroleum-based products used to operate our shredder, fleet of cranes and heavy equipment. We are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel costs which include fuel surcharges from vendors. During 2007 and 2008, we experienced increases in the cost of fuel and other petroleum-based products, although these prices decreased in later 2008 and 2009. A portion of these increases we passed on to our customers. However, because of the competitive nature of the industry, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on current or future increases in fuel prices to our customers. Although fuel costs decreased in 2009 compared to 2008, due to political instability in oil-producing countries, fuel prices may increase again in 2010. A significant increase in fuel costs could adversely affect our business. We could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations under, environmental laws that could significantly increase our operating expenses and reduce our operating income. Our operations are subject to various environmental statutes and regulations, including laws and regulations addressing materials used in the processing of our products. In addition, certain of our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Failure to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for our operations could result in substantial operating costs and capital expenditures, in addition to fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations. Certain of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other predecessor operators of these facilities have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these facilities or at off-site locations where we disposed of materials from our operations, which could result in future expenditures that we cannot currently quantify and which could reduce our profits. Our financial statements are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. We have prepared our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions we made. Actual results could differ from these amounts. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the carrying value of long-lived assets, valuation allowances for accounts receivable, lower of cost or market, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation and deferred taxes. 8 We depend on our senior management team and the loss of any member could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. Our success is dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. We have entered into employment agreements with our president and chief operating officer, Brian Donaghy, our vice president of ISA Recycling, James Wiseman III, and our vice president of ISA Alloys, Steve Jones. The loss of any members of our management team or the failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and continuing to grow our business at a rate necessary to maintain future profitability. The concentration of our customers and our exposure to credit risk could have a material adverse effect on the our results of operations and financial condition. Sales to North American Stainless, our largest customer, represented approximately 68.6% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our cash flow experiences a significant decline between the time we acquire scrap metal for processing and the time we receive payment for these goods. The loss of a significant customer or our inability to collect accounts receivable would negatively impact our revenues and profitability and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our debt may increase our vulnerability to economic or business downturns. We are vulnerable to higher interest rates because interest expense on certain of our borrowings is based on margins over a variable base rate. We may experience material increases in our interest expense as a result of increases in general interest rate levels. If we were to breach covenants in our lending facilities, our lenders could exercise their remedies related to any material breaches, including acceleration of our payments and taking action with respect to their loan security. From time to time, we have relied upon and will rely on borrowings under various credit facilities and from other lenders to operate our business. However, the recent financial crisis has adversely affected many financial institutions and, as a result, such financial institutions have ceased or reduced the amount of lending they have made available to their customers. As a result, we may not have the ability to borrow from other lenders to operate our business. Seasonal changes may adversely affect our business and operations. Our operations may be adversely affected by periods of inclement weather, which could decrease the collection and shipment volume of recycling materials. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock could depress our market price and diminish the value of your investment. Future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. If our existing shareholders sell a large number of shares, or if we issue a large number of shares, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. Moreover, the perception in the public market that our existing shareholders and in particular members of the Kletter family might sell shares of common stock could depress the market for our common stock. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. In recent periods, there has been volatility in the market price for our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including the following: -- our quarterly operating results or the operating results of our companies in the waste management or ferrous, non-ferrous and fiber recycling industry; -- changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or the ferrous, non-ferrous and fiber recycling industry; -- loss of significant customers and -- increases in materials and other costs. 9 In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. 