Risk Factors section. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or any persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements set forth below. Unless the context requires otherwise, all references to the "company," "we," "us" or "our" include Industrial Services of America, Inc. and subsidi aries. If any of the following risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to not be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Operations The loss of our customer contract with Home Depot has resulted in reduced revenues for us that we may not be able to replace. We lost our contract with Home Depot and we may be unable to replace in whole the lost revenue generated from that customer and necessarily the gross profit received there from. The Home Depot contract represented 56%, 51% and 57% of our revenue for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and 21%, 20% and 16% of our gross profit for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Notwithstanding the loss of this contract, we are seeking new customers to replace this lost revenue and gross profit. To date, we have not consummated a contract with any new customers who generate significant revenue and gross profit for us, but we are in discussions with some potential customers who may generate such revenue and gross profit. Although we may not be able to replenish this lost revenue from the management service segment of our business, we believe that the remaining segments of our business will generate increased revenue, particularly in the recycling business, and gross profit to offset in the near term the lost gross profit derived from the Home Depot contract. Our business has increasing involvement in ferrous, non-ferrous and fiber recycling. Currently, the prices of metals are high, but changes in demand, including foreign demand, regulation, economic slowdowns or increased competition could result in a reduction of our revenue and consequent decrease in our common stock price. Many companies offer or are engaged in the development of products or the provisions of services that may be or are competitive with our current products or services, although we do not believe any competition offers the unique mixture of the services and products we provide in the waste management area. Many entities have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than we possess. In addition, the industry is constantly changing as a result of consolidation that may create additional competitive pressures in our business environment. An increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our business. Our operations are dependent upon fuel, which we generally purchase in the open market on a daily basis. Direct fuel costs include the cost of fuel and other petroleum-based products used to operate our fleet of cranes and heavy equipment. We are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel costs which include fuel surcharges from vendors. During 2003, 2004 and 2005, we experienced increases in the cost of fuel and other petroleum-based products. A portion of these increases we passed on to our customers. However, because of the competitive nature of the industry, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on current or future increases in fuel prices to our customers. Due to political instability in oil-producing countries, fuel prices may continue to increase significantly in 2006. A significant increase in fuel costs could adversely affect our business. We could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations under, environmental laws that could significantly increase our operating expenses and reduce our operating income. Our operations are subject to various environmental statutes and regulations, including laws and regulations addressing materials used in the processing of our products. In addition, certain of our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Failure to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for our operations could result in substantial operating costs and capital expenditures, in addition to fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations. Certain of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other predecessor operators of these facilities have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these facilities or at off-site locations where materials from our operations were disposed of, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could reduce our profits. Our financial statements are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. We have prepared our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions we made. Actual results could differ from these amounts. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the carrying value of long-lived assets, valuation allowances for accounts receivable, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation and deferred taxes. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of any member could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. Our success is dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our senior management personnel. The loss of any members of our management team or the failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and continuing to grow our business at a rate necessary to maintain future profitability. Seasonal changes may adversely affect our business and operations. Our operations may be adversely affected by periods of inclement weather which could decrease the collection and shipment volume of recycling materials. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock could depress our market price and diminish the value of your investment. Future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. If our existing shareholders sell a large number of shares, or if we issue a large number of shares, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. Moreover, the perception in the public market that our existing shareholders and in particular members of the Kletter family might sell shares of common stock could depress the market for our common stock. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. In recent periods, there has been volatility in the market price for our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including the following: 路 our quarterly operating results or the operating results of our companies in the waste management or ferrous, non-ferrous and fiber recycling industry; 路 changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or the ferrous, non-ferrous and fiber recycling industry; 路 loss of significant customers, as was the case with the loss of Home Depot; and 路 increases in materials and other costs. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. 