Item 1A. Risk Factors Much of the information included in this annual report includes or is based upon estimates, projections or other “forward looking statements”. Such forward looking statements include any projections and estimates made by us and our management in connection with our business operations. While these forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are made in good faith and reflect our current judgment regarding the direction of our business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions or other future performance suggested herein. Such estimates, projections or other “forward looking statements” involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution the reader that important factors in some cases have affected and, in the future, could materially affect actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any such estimates, projections or other “forward looking statements”. REPORTS TO SECURITY HOLDERS We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our filings are available to the public over the internet at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E. Washington D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-732-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and formation statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at http://www.sec.gov. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and no revenues, which raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. From inception to December 31, 2013, we have incurred aggregate net losses of $4,295,510. We can offer no assurance that we will ever operate profitably or that we will generate positive cash flow in the future. In addition, our operating results in the future may be subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors not within our control, such as the unpredictability of when customers will order products, the size of customers’ orders, the demand for our products, and the level of competition and general economic conditions. Our company’s operations will be subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a developing enterprise and the uncertainties arising from the absence of a significant operating history. No assurance can be given that we may be able to operate on a profitable basis. 8 Due to the nature of our business and the early stage of our development, our securities must be considered highly speculative. We have not realized a profit from our operations to date and there is little likelihood that we will realize any profits in the short or medium term. Any profitability in the future from our business will be dependent upon the successful commercialization or licensing of our core products, which themselves are subject to numerous risk factors as set forth below. We expect to continue to incur development costs and operating costs. Consequently, we expect to incur operating losses and negative cash flows until our products gain market acceptance sufficient to generate a commercially viable and sustainable level of sales, and/or additional products are developed and commercially released and sales of such products made so that we are operating in a profitable manner. Our history of losses and no revenues raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have had negative cash flows from operations since inception. We will require significant additional financing, the availability of which cannot be assured, and if our company is unable to obtain such financing, our business may fail. To date, we have had negative cash flows from operations and have depended on sales of our equity securities and debt financing to meet our cash requirements. We may continue to have negative cash flows. We have estimated that we will require approximately $900,000 to carry out our business plan for the next twelve months. There is no assurance that actual cash requirements will not exceed our estimates. We will require additional financing to finance working capital and pay for operating expenses and capital requirements until we achieve a positive cash flow. Our ability to market and sell our advertising services will be dependent upon our ability to raise significant additional financing. If we are unable to obtain such financing, we will not be able to fully develop our business. Specifically, we will need to raise additional funds to: support our planned growth and carry out our business plan; hire top quality personnel for all areas of our business; and address competing technological and market developments. We may not be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing on acceptable terms as required. Even if financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are favorable to us or in sufficient amounts to satisfy our requirements. Any additional equity financing may involve substantial dilution to our then existing shareholders. If we require, but are unable to obtain, additional financing in the future, we may be unable to implement our business plan and our growth strategies, respond to changing business or economic conditions, withstand adverse operating results and compete effectively. More importantly, if we are unable to raise further financing when required, we may be forced to scale down our operations and our ability to generate revenues may be negatively affected. We have a limited operating history and if we are not successful in continuing to grow our business, then we may have to scale back or even cease our ongoing business operations. We have no history of revenues from operations and have no significant tangible assets. We have yet to generate positive earnings and there can be no assurance that we will ever operate profitably. Accordingly, we must be considered in the development stage. Our success is significantly dependent on a successful commercialization of our products. Our operations will be subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a developing enterprise and the uncertainties arising from the absence of a significant operating history. We may be unable to develop successful products or achieve commercial acceptance of our products or operate on a profitable basis. We are in the development stage and potential investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by enterprises in the development stage. If our business plan is not successful, and we are not able to operate profitably, investors may lose some or all of their investment in our company. 9 If we fail to effectively manage the growth of our company and the commercialization of our advertising services, our future business results could be harmed and our managerial and operational resources may be strained. As we proceed with the commercialization of our products and the expansion of our marketing and commercialization efforts, we expect to experience significant growth in the scope and complexity of our business. We will need to add staff to market our services, manage operations, handle sales and marketing efforts and perform finance and accounting functions. We anticipate that we will be required to hire a broad range of additional personnel in order to successfully advance our operations. This growth is likely to place a strain on our management and operational resources. The failure to develop and implement effective systems, or to hire and retain sufficient personnel for the performance of all of the functions necessary to effectively service and manage our potential business, or the failure to manage growth effectively, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Because we face intense competition from larger and better-established companies that have more resources than we do, we may be unable to implement our business plan or increase our revenues. The market for our products is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. Many of these competitors may have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and enjoy existing name recognition and customer bases. New competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. In addition, new services and technologies likely will increase the competitive pressures we face. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to technological change, competitive pressures, or changes in consumer demand. As a result of their advantages, our competitors may be able to limit or curtail our ability to compete successfully. In addition, many of our large competitors may offer customers a broader or superior range of services and technologies. Some of our competitors may conduct more extensive promotional activities and offer lower commercialization and licensing costs to customers than we do, which could allow them to gain greater market share or prevent us from establishing and increasing our market share. Increased competition may result in significant price competition, reduced profit margins or loss of market share, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and successfully operate our business. Our competitors may develop technologies superior to those that our company currently possess. In the future, we may need to decrease our prices if our competitors lower their prices. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, services, technologies and customer requirements. Such competition will potentially affect our chances of achieving profitability, and ultimately affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Risks Related to Our Common Stock A decline in the price of our common stock could affect our ability to raise further working capital, it may adversely impact our ability to continue operations and we may go out of business. A prolonged decline in the price of our common stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. Because we may attempt to acquire a significant portion of the funds we need in order to conduct our planned operations through the sale of equity securities, a decline in the price of our common stock could be detrimental to our liquidity and our operations because the decline may cause investors to not choose to invest in our stock. If we are unable to raise the funds we require for all of our planned operations, we may be forced to reallocate funds from other planned uses and may suffer a significant negative effect on our business plan and operations, including our ability to develop new products and continue our current operations. As a result, our business may suffer and not be successful and we may go out of business. We also might not be able to meet our financial obligations if we cannot raise enough funds through the sale of our common stock and we may be forced to go out of business. 10 If we issue additional shares in the future, it will result in the dilution of our existing shareholders. We are authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock with a par value of $0.001. Our board of directors may choose to issue some or all of such shares to acquire one or more businesses or to provide additional financing in the future. The issuance of any such shares will result in a reduction of the book value and market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If we issue any such additional shares, such issuance will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all current shareholders. Further, such issuance may result in a change of control of our company. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the Securities Exchange Commission's penny stock regulations, which may limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors". The term "accredited investor" refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. FINRA sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the "penny stock" rules described above, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), formerly the National Association of Securities Dealers or NASD, has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As a “smaller reporting company”, we are not required to provide the information required by this Item. 11 