Item 1A. Risk Factors.Our business involves various risks associated with the operations of our Company. To provide a framework to understand our operating environment, we are providing a brief explanation of the significant risks associated with our business. Although we have tried to identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in the future. Each of the following risks could affect our performance.We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small group of customers. The loss of one or more of these customers could negatively impact our revenue and results of operations.Our electrical construction customer base is highly concentrated. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2012, our top three customers accounted for approximately 62% of our consolidated revenue, as discussed in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements herein. Our revenue could materially decline if we lose one or more of our significant customers. In addition, revenue under our contracts with significant customers may vary from period-to-period, depending on the timing and volume of work which such customers order in a given period, and as a result of competition from the in-house service organizations of our customers. Reduced demand for our services or the loss of one or more of these customers would, if not replaced by other business, result in a decrease in revenue, margins, profits and cash receipts, which could be material.The electrical construction industry is highly competitive.The electrical construction business is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with other independent contractors, including larger regional and national firms that may have financial, operational, technical and marketing resources that exceed our own. We also face competition from existing and prospective customers establishing or augmenting in-house service organizations that employ personnel who perform some of the same types of service as those provided by us. Some of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their services at lower rates than we can provide. Many of our current and potential competitors, especially our competitors with national scope, also may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. If we fail to compete favorably with new or existing competitors, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.Our business is affected by the spending patterns of our customers and adverse weather conditions, exposing us to variable quarterly results.Our revenues are primarily driven by the spending patterns of our customers, which can vary significantly from period to period, as well as seasonal variations. These variations are influenced by weather, hours of daylight, available system outages from utilities, bidding seasons and holidays and can have a significant impact on our gross margins. Most of our work is performed outdoors and as a result, our results of operations can be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement 3Table of Contents weather. Any weather related delays in the completion of, or which increase the cost of, our projects could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations in any one or more of our reporting periods.An adverse change in economic conditions in the electric utility industry could reduce the demand for our services.Because a substantial portion of our electrical construction work is performed for customers in the electric utility industry, an adverse change in economic conditions in the electric utility industry could impair the financial condition of many of our customers, which could cause them to reduce their capital expenditures and demand for our services.Skilled labor shortages and increased labor costs could negatively affect our ability to compete for new projects.In our electrical construction business, we have from time to time experienced shortages of certain types of qualified personnel. The commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects, increased demand for infrastructure improvements, and the aging utility workforce also deplete the pool of skilled labor available to us, even if we are not awarded such projects. As a result of these factors, the supply of experienced linemen and supervisors may not be sufficient to meet our expected demand and we may not be able to allocate or hire a sufficient number of project managers for new electrical construction projects. We may also spend considerable resources training employees who may then be hired by our competitors, forcing us to spend additional funds to attract personnel to fill those positions. If we were unable to retain sufficient qualified personnel at a reasonable cost, or at all, we would be unable to staff new and existing projects, which would reduce our revenue.Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits.As discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included herein, a significant portion of our revenue in our electrical construction operations is recognized on a percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cost-to-cost method, which is standard for fixed price contracts. For the percentage-of-completion accounting practice, we use results in our recognizing contract revenue and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenue, costs and profitability. The cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profit for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year.We possess a significant amount of accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings assets.We extend credit to our customers as a result of performing work under contract prior to billing our customers for that work. These customers mainly include gas and electric utilities and telecommunication companies. As of December 31, 2012, we had net accounts receivable of $13.3 million and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings of $7.4 million. We periodically assess the credit risk of our customers and continuously monitor the timeliness of payments. Slowdowns in the industries we serve may impair the financial condition of one or more of our customers and hinder their ability to pay us on a timely basis or at all. Furthermore, bankruptcies or financial difficulties within the telecommunications sector could hinder the ability of our customers to pay us on a timely basis or at all. The failure or delay in payment by our customers could reduce our cash flows and adversely impact our liquidity and profitability.Amounts included in our backlog may not result in revenue or translate into profits.Backlog for our electrical construction operations as of December 31, 2012 was $40.9 million, which represents the amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. This revenue is not guaranteed, however, as many of our customers may cancel their contracts with us on short notice (typically 30-90 days), even if we are not in default under the contract. In addition, $4.5 million of the backlog is attributable to service agreements that contain multiple year terms which fall into the category of unit price contracts. Typically, these service agreements do not require our customers to purchase a minimum amount of services and are cancelable on short notice. For these service agreements, we project the backlog amount based on our historical work from each customer. To the extent that our customers cancel their contracts with us or reduce their requirements during a particular period for any reason, we will not realize revenue or profit from the associated backlog. Furthermore, contracts included in our backlog may not be profitable. We may experience variances in the realization of our backlog because of project delays or cancellations resulting from weather conditions, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control. As a result, even if we realize all of the revenue from the projects in our backlog, if our expenses associated with these projects are higher than expected, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.Our projects are subject to numerous hazards. If we do not maintain an adequate safety record, we may be ineligible to bid on certain projects, could be terminated from existing projects and could have difficulty procuring adequate insurance.Hazards experienced as a result of our electric construction operations include electrocutions, fires, mechanical failure and transportation accidents. These hazards can cause and have caused personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or 4Table of Contents destruction of property and equipment, and other consequential damages, including blackouts, and may result in suspension of our operations on a project, large damage claims, and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. At any given time, we are subject to workers’ compensation claims and claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage, loss of life and personal injuries resulting from such hazards or other workplace accidents. Further, regulatory changes implemented by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration could impose additional costs on us. Notwithstanding our investment of substantial resources in occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and we may be unable to avoid accidents resulting from the hazards described above and the associated liability exposure, which may be significant. Furthermore, if serious accidents or fatalities were to occur or if our safety record were to deteriorate, we could become ineligible to bid on certain projects and could be terminated from existing projects, our reputation and our prospects for future projects could be negatively affected, and we could be required to expend additional resources on health and safety programs. In addition, if our safety record were to significantly deteriorate, it would become more difficult and expensive for us to procure adequate insurance.An inability to obtain bonding would have a negative impact on our operations and results.In certain circumstances, we are required to provide performance bonds to secure our contractual commitments. Although to date we have not experienced difficulty in obtaining bonding, if we were unable to obtain surety bonds in the future, or were required to post collateral in order to obtain surety bonds, our ability to obtain new contracts would be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Increases in the cost of fuel could have a negative impact on our operating margins.The price of fuel needed to operate our vehicles and equipment is difficult to predict and changes based on events and factors outside of our control, including, among others, the supply and demand for oil and gas, war and civil unrest in oil producing countries, political developments and environmental concerns. As a general matter, our fixed price contracts do not permit us to pass through additional costs associated with increases in fuel prices to our customers. As a result, increases in the cost of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.Delays in the receipt of materials could result in delays in the performance of our services.There is an increased demand for fiber optic cable because our customers are expanding the capacity of their networks. In addition, fiber optic cable suppliers have experienced and could further experience delays in the delivery of materials. While there have not been significant delays to date, future delays could adversely affect the timing of the construction and maintenance services we provide to our customers.Our capital expenditures may fluctuate as a result of changes in business requirements.Our anticipated capital expenditure requirements may vary from time to time as a result of changes in our business. Increased capital expenditures will use cash flow and may increase our borrowing costs if cash for capital expenditures is not available from operations.We may be unable to secure sufficient independent subcontractors to fulfill our obligations, or our independent subcontractors may fail to satisfy their obligations.We utilize independent subcontractors to complete work on a portion of our projects. If we are unable to secure independent subcontractors at a reasonable cost or at all, we may be delayed in completing work under a contract or the cost of completing the work may increase. In addition, we may have disputes with these independent subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of the work they performed. Any of these factors could adversely affect the quality of our service, our ability to perform under certain contracts and the relationship with our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.Our failure to properly manage projects, or project delays, may result in additional costs or claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and liquidity.Certain of our engagements involve large-scale, complex projects. The quality of our performance on such a project depends in large part upon our ability to manage our client relationship and the project itself and to timely deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel. Our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected if we miscalculate the resources or time needed to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, or the resources or time needed to meet contractual milestones. Additionally, delays on a particular project, including permitting delays, may cause us to incur costs for standby pay, and may lead to personnel shortages on other projects scheduled to commence at a later date. In addition, some of our agreements require that we share in cost overages or pay liquidated damages if we do not meet project deadlines; therefore, any failure to properly estimate or manage cost, or delay in completion of projects, could subject us to penalties, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Further, any defects or errors, or failures to meet our customers' expectations could result in large damage claims against us, and because of the substantial cost 5Table of Contents of, and potentially long lead-times necessary to acquire certain of the materials and equipment used in our more complex projects, damage claims may substantially exceed the amount we can charge for our associated services.Our business may be affected by difficult work sites and environments, which could cause delays and increase our costs.We perform work under a variety of conditions, including, but not limited to, difficult and hard to reach terrain and difficult site conditions. Performing work under such conditions can result in project delays or cancellations, potentially causing us to incur additional, unanticipated costs, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. In addition, some of our contracts require that we assume the risk should actual site conditions vary from those expected.Legislative actions and incentives relating to electric power and renewable energy may fail to result in increased demand for our services. While we believe the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (the “Energy Act”) will provide opportunities in the industries we serve, implementation of the Energy Act is still subject to considerable fiscal and regulatory uncertainty. Regulations implementing the components of the Energy Act that may affect demand for our services remain, in some cases, subject to review in various federal courts. In one such case, decided in February 2009, a federal court of appeals vacated the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) interpretation of the scope of its backstop siting authority. Accordingly, the effect of these regulations, once finally implemented, is uncertain. As a result, the Energy Act may not result in increased spending on electric power transmission infrastructure. Continued uncertainty regarding the implementation of the Energy Act may result in slower than anticipated growth in demand for our services.Climate change risks.We cannot predict with certainty whether climate change is occurring and, if so, at what rate. However, the physical effects of climate change could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. Climate change may result in, among other things, changing rainfall patterns, changing storm patterns and intensities and changing temperature levels. Because our operating results are significantly influenced by weather, substantial changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. For example, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather over a greater period of time in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins.Environmental risks.We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water and groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under some of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously operated properties regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time. The presence of any contamination from substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations. In addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.From time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to our operations. We believe that we are in compliance with our environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations should not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance.Climate change issues may result in the adoption of new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers, our customers, and subsequently effect how we conduct our businesses. This could also cause us to incur additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental regulations, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers, or both, incurring additional compliance costs that are passed on to us. These costs may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. In addition, developments in federal and state legislation and regulation on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties, equipment and our processes without a corresponding increase in revenue.Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter.Our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by:•the timing and volume of work under contract;•changes in national, regional, local and general economic conditions;•the budgetary spending patterns of customers;6Table of Contents •variations in margins of projects performed during any particular quarter;•a change in the demand for our services;•increased costs of performance of our services caused by severe weather conditions;•increases in design and construction costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers;•the termination of existing agreements;•losses experienced in our operations that are not covered by insurance;•a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business;•availability of qualified labor hired for specific projects; and•changes in bonding requirements applicable to existing and new agreements.We could be adversely affected by the loss of key management personnel.Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our executive officers and senior management, including those of our subsidiaries. Other than with respect to our Chief Executive Officer, we do not have employment or non-competition agreements with any of our employees. We believe that key members of our senior management possess valuable industry knowledge, relationships and experience that are important to the successful operation of our business. The relationships between our executive officers and senior management and our customers are important to our being retained. We are also dependent upon our project managers and field supervisors who are responsible for managing and drawing employees to our projects. There can be no assurance that any individual will continue in his or her capacity for any particular period of time. Industry-wide competition for managerial talent in electrical construction has increased and the loss of one or more of our key employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business and relationships with our customers. The loss of any of our executive officers or senior management could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Acts of war or terrorism may seriously harm our business.Acts of war, any outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, or acts of terrorism, may cause disruption to the economy, our company, our employees and our customers, which could adversely impact our total revenue and earnings.We could be adversely affected by liabilities associated with our former mining business.The Company was previously engaged in mining activities, and ended all such activities in December 2002. However, we could still be liable for previous activities at sites we once owned.The violation of our debt covenants imposed by our credit facility could impact our access to that credit facility and therefore our cash flows.Our debt arrangements contain various financial and other covenants including, but not limited to: minimum tangible net worth, outside debt limitation, and maximum debt to tangible net worth ratio. Our loans also have cross-default provisions whereby any default under any loans of the Company (or its subsidiaries) with the lender will constitute a default under all of the other loans of the Company (and its subsidiaries) with the lender. Although we are in compliance with all covenants, if we were to experience substantial consecutive losses, absent a modification of the loan agreement or a waiver, this could result in a violation of the financial covenants. A violation of our financial covenants will give the right to our lender to accelerate our loans. Under these circumstances, there can be no assurance that we could obtain a modification or waiver. The acceleration of all of our loans would adversely affect our cash flows and consequently our results of operations.We may not be able to continue to rely on an exemption from the requirement to provide an attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal control, investors could lose confidence and the market value of our common stock could decrease.The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirement that management report on our internal control over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2012, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. However, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to be effective in the future. Pursuant to rules of the SEC we are exempt from the requirement that our independent registered public accounting firm express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and, accordingly, provide only management’s report on the effectiveness of our internal controls in this annual report. Therefore, we were not required to have, nor have we engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform, an audit of our internal control over financial reporting. 7Table of Contents However, an increase in our market capitalization to $75 million or more could render us ineligible to rely on this exemption and require us to engage our independent registered public accounting firm to attest on our internal control over financial reporting. We may also be required to expand disclosure and accelerate our financial reporting and disclosure. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. As a result, we may incur significant additional cost. If we or our independent auditors discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could result in a loss of investor confidence and reduce the market value of our common stock. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and management may not be able to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in a timely manner. Failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies could also impair our ability to obtain financing and result in the loss of customers. In addition, such failure could result in investigations and penalties.The renewable energy industry is heavily reliant on tax incentives, the availability of which may be uncertain and could adversely affect demand for our electrical construction services.Due to the unsubsidized cost of electric power from renewable resources often exceeding that of fossil fuel and nuclear generating facilities, the renewable energy industry is heavily reliant on tax incentives. These tax incentives effectively reduce the market price for renewable energy, making these facilities more economic to construct and spur investment in them. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) was enacted in February 2009 and contained federal tax incentives applicable to the renewable energy industry. Certain key renewable energy provisions contained in the ARRA were extended in December 2010 and again in January 2013 by the American Taxpayer Relief Act (“ATRA”). These tax incentives, however, have a finite duration which creates uncertainty for the developers of renewable energy facilities and may adversely affect investment in them and, accordingly, the demand for our services. Moreover, in light of the ongoing debate over federal budget and tax policies, the likelihood that ARRA will be further extended or enhanced cannot be predicted, and any possible renewal may not be as favorable as those that currently exist. Accordingly, we cannot predict the impact that this legislation will have on the demand for our services. As a result, our revenue and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if demand for our services or the tax incentives were reduced.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.