Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves various risks associated with the operations of our Company. To provide a framework to understand our operating environment, we are providing a brief explanation of the significant risks associated with our business. Although we have tried to identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in the future. Each of the following risks could affect our performance. Risks related to our electrical construction operations We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small group of customers. The loss of one or more of these customers could negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. Our electrical construction customer base is highly concentrated. For example, in the year ended December 31, 2010, our top three customers accounted for approximately 45% of our consolidated revenue, as discussed in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements herein. Our revenue could materially decline if we lose one or more of our significant customers. In addition, revenue under our contracts with significant customers may vary from period-to-period depending on the timing and volume of work which such customers order in a given period and a result of competition from the in-house service organizations of our customers. Reduced demand for our services or the loss of one or more of these customers would, if not replaced by other business, result in a decrease in revenue, margins, profits and cash receipts, which could be material. The electrical construction industry is highly competitive. The electrical construction business is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with other independent contractors, including larger regional and national firms that may have financial, operational, technical and marketing resources that exceed our own. We also face competition from existing and prospective customers establishing or augmenting in-house service organizations that employ personnel who perform some of the same types of service as those provided by us. Certain of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their services at lower rates than we can provide. Many of our current and potential competitors, especially our competitors with national scope, also may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. If we fail to compete favorably with new or existing competitors, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business is affected by the spending patterns of our customers and adverse weather conditions, exposing us to variable quarterly results. Our revenues are primarily driven by the spending patterns of our customers, which can vary significantly from period to period, as well as seasonal variations. These variations are influenced by weather, hours of daylight, available system outages from utilities, bidding seasons and holidays and can have a significant impact on our gross margins. Most of our work is performed outdoors and as a result, our results of operations can be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather. Any weather related delays in the completion of, or which increase the cost of, our projects could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations in any one or more of our reporting periods. An adverse change in economic conditions in the electric utility industry could reduce the demand for our services. Because a substantial portion of our electrical construction work is performed for customers in the electric utility industry, an adverse change in economic conditions in the electric utility industry could impair the financial condition of many of our customers, which could cause them to reduce their capital expenditures and demand for our services. For example, in January 2010, Florida Power & Light Company announced that it had suspended activities on projects representing approximately $10 billion of investments over the next five years in Florida’s infrastructure, including discretionary transmission and distribution projects, citing an adverse rate decision by the Florida Public Service Commission and a deteriorating regulatory and business environment. This suspension of discretionary projects, or similar actions taken by our other electric utility customers, could result in fewer projects 5 Table of Contents being available for us to work on, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Skilled labor shortages and increased labor costs could negatively affect our ability to compete for new projects. In our electrical construction business, we have from time to time experienced shortages of certain types of qualified personnel. The commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects, increased demand for infrastructure improvements and the aging utility workforce also deplete the pool of skilled labor available to us, even if we are not awarded such projects. As a result of these factors, the supply of experienced linemen and supervisors may not be sufficient to meet our expected demand and we may not be able to allocate or hire sufficient project managers for new electrical construction projects. We may also spend considerable resources training employees who may then be hired by our competitors, forcing us to spend additional funds to attract personnel to fill those positions. If we were unable to retain sufficient qualified personnel at a reasonable cost, or at all, we would be unable to staff new and existing projects, which would reduce our revenue. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. As discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included herein, a significant portion of our revenue in our electrical construction operations is recognized on a percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cost-to-cost method, which is standard for fixed price contracts. For the percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenue and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenue, costs and profitability. The cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profit for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. Amounts included in our backlog may not result in revenue or translate into profits. Backlog for our electrical construction operations at December 31, 2010 was $5.1 million, which represents the amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. This revenue is not guaranteed, however, as many of our customers may cancel their contracts with us on short notice (typically 30-90 days), even if we are not in default under the contract. In addition, $1.9 million of these uncompleted contracts are service agreements that contain multiple year terms which fall into the category of unit price contracts. Typically, these service agreements do not require our customers to purchase a minimum amount of services and are cancelable on short notice. For these service agreements, we project the backlog amount based on our historical work from each customer. To the extent that our customers cancel their contracts with us or reduce their requirements during a particular period for any reason, we will not realize revenue or profit from the associated backlog. Furthermore, contracts included in our backlog may not be profitable. We may experience variances in the realization of our backlog because of project delays or cancellations resulting from weather conditions, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control. As a result, even if we realize all of the revenue from the projects in our backlog, if our expenses associated with these projects are higher than expected, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our projects are subject to numerous hazards. If we do not maintain an adequate safety record, we may be ineligible to bid on certain projects, could be terminated from existing projects and could have difficulty procuring adequate insurance. Hazards experienced as a result of our electric construction operations include electrocutions, fires, mechanical failure and transportation accidents. These hazards can cause and have caused personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages, including blackouts, and may result in suspension of our operations on a project, large damage claims, and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. At any given time, we are subject to workers’ compensation claims and claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage, loss of life and personal injuries resulting from such hazards or other 6 Table of Contents workplace accidents. Further, regulatory changes implemented by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration could impose additional costs on us. Notwithstanding our investment of substantial resources in occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and we may be unable to avoid accidents resulting from the hazards described above and the associated liability exposure, which may be significant. Furthermore, if serious accidents or fatalities were to occur or if our safety record were to deteriorate, we could become ineligible to bid on certain projects and could be terminated from existing projects, our reputation and our prospects for future projects could be negatively affected, and we could be required to expend additional resources on health and safety programs. In addition, if our safety record were to significantly deteriorate, it would become more difficult and expensive for us to procure adequate insurance. An inability to obtain bonding would have a negative impact on our operations and results. In certain circumstances, we are required to provide performance bonds to secure our contractual commitments. Although to date we have not experienced difficulty in obtaining bonding, if we were unable to obtain surety bonds in the future, or were required to post collateral in order to obtain surety bonds, our ability to obtain new contracts would be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain provisions of President Obama’s economic stimulus plan relating to construction of new electric transmission lines may fail to result in increased demand for our services. The credit crisis and economic downturn has resulted in a tremendous amount of uncertainty with respect to our customers’ spending plans, and has resulted in certain projects being delayed or cancelled. While we believe that President Obama’s economic stimulus plan, which was enacted in February 2009, currently provides for Federal government funding for new transmission lines in the United States and should aid the wind, electrical transmission and rural broadband businesses, the extent to which it will is uncertain. We cannot be certain how any such government funds would be used, if at all, in the regions in which we do business or what the impact that the use of any such funds would be on our financial results. Increases in the cost of fuel could have a negative impact on our operating margins The price of fuel needed to operate our vehicles and equipment is difficult to predict and changes based on events and factors outside of our control, including, among others, the supply and demand for oil and gas, war and civil unrest in oil producing countries, political developments and environmental concerns. As a general matter, our fixed price contracts do not permit us to pass through additional costs associated with increases in fuel prices to our customers. As a result, increases in the cost of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Risks related to our real estate development operations We engage in real estate activities which are speculative and involve a high degree of risk. The real estate industry is highly cyclical by nature and future market conditions are uncertain. Factors which adversely affect the real estate and homebuilding industries, many of which are beyond our control, include: • the availability and cost of financing; • unfavorable interest rates and increases in inflation; • overbuilding or decreases in demand; • changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; • cost overruns, inclement weather, and labor and material shortages; • the impact of present or future environmental legislation, zoning laws and other regulations; • availability, delays and costs associated with obtaining permits, approvals or licenses necessary to develop property; and • increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees. 7 Table of Contents The homebuilding and condominium industry is in the midst of a severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period and continue to adversely affect our business. A continuing decline in the demand for condominiums coupled with an increase in the inventory of available condominiums and other homes could adversely affect our sales volume and pricing even more than has occurred to date and, as a result, could reduce our earnings. The homebuilding industry is in the midst of a severe downturn and the housing market in our area continues to be characterized by an oversupply of both new and resale home inventory, including foreclosed homes, reduced levels of consumer demand for new homes, aggressive price competition among homebuilders and increased incentives for home sales. As a result, we, like many other builders, have experienced a decline in demand for new condominiums. These challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and, in the near term, these conditions may further deteriorate. We expect the continued weakness in the housing market will adversely affect this business segment as compared to prior periods and could result in additional inventory impairments in the future. An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and resale homes, has depressed prices and reduced margins. This combination of lower demand and higher inventories affects both the number of condominiums that we can sell and the prices at which we can sell them. We have no basis for predicting how long supply and demand will remain out of balance in the market where we operate or whether, even if demand and supply come back in balance, sales volumes or pricing will return to prior levels. Changes in national and regional economic conditions, as well as local economic conditions where we conduct our real estate development operations and where prospective purchasers of our condominiums live, can have a negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence, interest rates and population growth may reduce demand and depress prices for our condominiums. This, in turn, can reduce our earnings. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, such as employment levels; availability of financing for homebuyers; interest rates; consumer confidence; levels of new and existing homes for sale; demographic trends and housing demand. If any adverse conditions affect our markets, they could have a proportionately greater or lesser impact on us versus other homebuilding companies. An excess supply of housing, including homes held for sale by investors, banks and other lending institutions, can also lower new home prices and reduce our gross margins on new home sales. As a result of the foregoing, potential customers may be less willing or able to buy our condominiums, or we may take longer or incur more costs to build them. We may not be able to recapture increased costs by raising prices in many cases because of market conditions or because we fix our prices in advance of delivery by signing home sales contracts. We may be unable to change the affordability of our homes to maintain our margins or satisfactorily address changing market conditions in other ways. In addition, cancellations of home sales contracts in backlog from time to time may increase if homebuyers’ sentiment changes and they may fail to honor their contracts. The multifamily housing industry is highly competitive and, if others are more successful, our business could decline. We operate in a very competitive environment, which is characterized by competition from a number of other real estate developers. We compete with large national and regional development companies and with smaller local firms for land, financing, raw materials and skilled management and labor resources. We also compete with the resale, or “previously owned,” condominium market. Increased competition could cause us to increase our selling incentives and/or reduce our prices. Increased competition could also result in an oversupply of condominiums or other housing alternatives available for sale, which could depress the prices at which we can sell our condominiums, and increase the length of time it takes us to sell them. If a failure to compete effectively resulted in our selling fewer condominiums at lower prices, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. If we do not receive cash corresponding to previously recognized revenue, our future cash flows could be lower than expected. Over the last few years, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we have recognized revenue and profits from sales of condominium units during the course of construction. Revenue recognition commences and continues to be recorded when construction is beyond a preliminary stage, the buyer is committed to the extent 8 Table of Contents of being unable to require a full refund of its deposit except for non-delivery of the residence, a substantial percentage of units are under non-cancelable contracts, collection of the sales price is reasonably assured and costs can be reasonably estimated. Due to various contingencies, like delayed construction and buyer defaults, we may receive less cash than the amount of revenue already recognized or the cash may be received at a later date than we expected, which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. If land is not available at reasonable prices, our sales and earnings could decrease. Our real estate development operations depend on our ability to obtain land at reasonable prices for the development of our residential condominiums. Changes in the general availability of land, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning regulations that limit housing density and other market conditions may hurt our ability to obtain land for new residential developments. If the supply of land appropriate for development of our residential condominiums becomes more limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the cost of land could increase, which could reduce the profitability of our real estate development operations if we are unable to recover these costs in the sales prices of our condominiums, and the number of condominiums that we build and sell could be reduced, which would reduce our revenue. If the market value of our land and developments drops significantly, our profits could decrease. The market value of our land and condominium inventories of our real estate development operations depends on market conditions. We acquire land for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current market. If housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, may experience less than anticipated profits and may not be able to recover our costs when we sell our property or finished product. In the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs or may have to sell land or completed units at a loss, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Also, if there is a decrease in demand for condominiums such that the market value of a condominium is less than purchase price reduced by the deposit made by a buyer, the buyer may elect to forfeit their deposit to us and have no further obligation to purchase the condominium, resulting in a loss of revenue, operating income and a possible write-down of condominiums in inventory. Government regulations and legal challenges may delay the start or completion of our developments, increase our expenses or limit our building activities, which could have a negative impact on our operations. We must obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities in connection with our real estate development operations, and these governmental authorities often have broad discretion in exercising their approval authority. We incur substantial costs related to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Any increase in legal and regulatory requirements may cause us to incur substantial additional costs, as discussed below. Various local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning building, zoning, sales and similar matters apply to and/or affect the residential multifamily industry. Municipalities may restrict or place moratoriums on the availability of utilities, such as water and sewer taps. In some areas, municipalities may enact growth control initiatives, which will restrict the number of building permits available in a given year. This governmental regulation affects construction activities as well as sales activities, mortgage lending activities and other dealings with consumers. The industry also has experienced an increase in state and local legislation and regulations which limit the availability or use of land. We may be required to apply for additional approvals or modify our existing approvals because of changes in local circumstances or applicable law. Further, we may experience delays and increased expenses as a result of legal challenges to our proposed developments, whether brought by governmental authorities or private parties. Increases in taxes or government fees could increase our costs, and adverse changes in tax laws could reduce customer demand for our condominiums. Increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees, such as fees imposed on developers to fund schools, open space, road improvements, or to provide low and moderate income housing, could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our real estate development operations if we are unable to recover these costs in the sales prices of our condominiums. In addition, increases in local real estate taxes could adversely affect our potential customers who may consider those costs in determining whether to make a new home purchase and decide, as a result, not to purchase one of our condominiums. In addition, any changes in the income tax laws that would reduce or eliminate 9 Table of Contents tax deductions or incentives to homeowners could make housing less affordable or otherwise reduce the demand for housing, which in turn could reduce our sales and adversely affect our revenues. Our business is concentrated in Florida, which increases our exposure to local adverse events. In our real estate development operations, we currently develop and sell condominiums only on the east coast of Florida. As a consequence, our exposure to local adverse events, such as natural disasters or changes in economic conditions, is increased. In particular, Florida is affected by tropical storms and hurricanes, which can damage or destroy buildings, including condominiums. The occurrence of such a storm or other natural disaster could result in delays in construction and shortages and increased costs of labor and building materials. Any such delays or additional costs could adversely affect the profitability of our real estate development operations. Additionally, the inability of property owners to obtain cost-effective insurance could have an adverse effect on demand for property in our markets, which could reduce our revenue. Furthermore, there are periods of time during which insurance companies will not write policies because of the presence of a named storm that may pass over the areas in which we sell condominiums. During these periods, home closings in areas that could be affected by such a storm will be delayed until the risk of the storm has passed and the required insurance can be obtained. Adverse weather conditions and conditions in nature beyond our control could significantly impact our quarterly revenue and profitability. In our real estate development operations, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and fires, can have serious effects on our ability to perform work. We also may be affected by unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems. Any of these adverse events or circumstances could cause delays in the completion of, or increase the cost of, our projects and, as a result, could adversely affect our sales, earnings and profitability. In addition, approaching storms require that sales, development and construction operations be suspended in favor of storm preparation activities such as securing construction materials and equipment. After a storm has passed, construction-related resources such as sub-contracted labor and building materials are likely to be redeployed to hurricane recovery efforts around the State of Florida. Governmental permitting and inspection activities may similarly be focused primarily on returning displaced residents to homes damaged by the storms, rather than on new construction activity. Depending on the severity of the damage caused by the storms, disruptions such as these could last for several months. If we experience shortages of labor and supplies or other circumstances beyond our control, there could be delays or increased costs in developing our condominiums, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to develop residential condominiums may be affected by circumstances beyond our control, including: work stoppages, labor disputes and shortages of qualified trades people, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers; lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and shortages, or delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices of, building materials. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our condominium projects. If we are not able to recover these increased costs by raising the prices of our condominiums we might decide to postpone or cancel the development of condominium projects on which we have not yet begun construction. If that happens, our operating results could be harmed. Additionally, we may be limited in the amount we can raise sales prices by our customers’ unwillingness to pay higher prices. Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly, which could adversely affect our business. As a real estate developer, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims, which can include bodily injury claims and mold-related property damage claims among others, are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high, and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition, which could be material. 10 Table of Contents If we are not able to obtain suitable financing, our business may decline. Our real estate development operations depend substantially on our ability to obtain financing for the development of our projects. If we are not able to obtain suitable financing, our costs would increase and our revenue would decrease, or we could be precluded from continuing our operations at current levels. Increases in interest rates can make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain the funds we need to operate our business, which would have an adverse affect on our profitability. If our potential customers are not able to obtain suitable financing, our business may decline. Our real estate development operations also depend on the ability of our potential customers to obtain mortgages for the purchase of our condominiums. During 2007, the mortgage lending industry began experiencing significant instability. As a result of increased default rates, particularly (but not entirely) with regard to sub-prime and other non-conforming loans, many lenders have reduced their willingness to make and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. Fewer loan products and stricter loan qualification standards may make it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of our condominiums. Increases in the cost of home mortgage financing could prevent our potential customers from purchasing our condominiums. In addition, where our potential customers must sell their existing homes in order to buy a condominium from us, increases in mortgage costs could prevent the buyers of our customers’ existing homes from obtaining the mortgages they need to complete the purchase, which could result in our potential customers’ inability to buy a condominium from us. Furthermore, changes in government sponsored entities involved in the residential mortgage market such as Fannie Mae and FHA could affect mortgage rates, down payment requirements and our customers’ ability to obtain affordable financing, which could subsequently affect our customers’ ability to purchase our products. If our potential customers or the buyers of our customers’ current homes are not able to obtain suitable financing, our sales and revenue could decline. We depend upon the availability and skill of general contractors and subcontractors. Substantially all our construction work is done by subcontractors working for a general contractor we select for a particular project. Accordingly, the timing and quality of our construction depends on the availability and skill of those subcontractors. We do not have long-term contractual commitments with any particular general contractor, subcontractors or suppliers. Although we believe that our relationships with our general contractors, subcontractors and suppliers are good, we cannot assure you that skilled subcontractors will continue to be available to us at reasonable rates. The inability to contract with skilled subcontractors or general contractors at reasonable costs on a timely basis could limit our ability to build and deliver condominiums and could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of our real estate development operations. Additionally, if there is an impairment, bankruptcy or default by the general contractor or subcontractors our production, revenue and operating income may be adversely affected. We rely on outside professionals whose errors could increase our costs. We often collaborate with numerous professionals such as architects, engineers and general contractors in the development of our real estate projects. In the course of our business, we rely on the work of these professionals to help design and build the condominiums that we develop, and errors in their work can create significant increases in cost and delays in construction. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Our revenue and operating results from real estate development operations are subject to fluctuations. Because we typically do not have more than one or two projects under development at any time, factors such as the timing of the start of construction of new projects, the timing of receipt of regulatory approvals for development and construction and others can cause our revenue and operating results to vary from period to period and from year to year. Accordingly, the historical financial performance of our real estate development operations is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of future results for any particular period, and quarter-to-quarter comparisons should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. We may be subject to environmental liabilities that could adversely affect our results of operations or the value of our properties. 11 Table of Contents The development and sale of real property creates a potential for environmental liability on our part as owner and developer, for our own acts as well as the acts of prior owners, current owners or past owners of adjacent parcels. If hazardous substances are discovered on or emanating from any of our properties, we may be held liable for costs and liabilities relating to those hazardous substances. Should a substantial environmental hazard be found on any of our properties, our results of operations and the value of the contaminated property could be adversely affected. Increased insurance risk could negatively affect our business. Insurance and surety companies may take actions that could negatively affect our business, including increasing insurance premiums, requiring higher self-insured retentions and deductibles, requiring additional collateral or covenants on surety bonds, reducing limits, restricting coverages, imposing exclusions, and refusing to underwrite certain risks and classes of business. Any of these actions may adversely affect our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage at reasonable costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks related to our business Environmental matters and climate change impacts. We cannot predict with certainty whether climate change is occurring and, if so, at what rate. However, the physical effects of climate change could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. Climate change may result in, among other things, changing rainfall patterns, changing storm patterns and intensities and changing temperature levels. Because our operating results are significantly influenced by weather, significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. For example, if climate change results in drier weather and milder temperatures over a greater period of time in a given period, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could have a positive impact on our revenues and gross margins. In addition, if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes, intense rainfall and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. Conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather over a greater period of time in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water and groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously operated properties regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time. The presence of any contamination from substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations. In addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. From time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our operations. We believe that we are in compliance with our environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations should not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. Climate change issues may result in the adoption of new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers, our customers, and subsequently effect how we conduct our businesses. This could also cause us to incur additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental regulations, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers or both incurring additional compliance costs that are passed on to us. These costs may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. In addition, developments in federal and state legislation and regulation on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties, equipment and our processes without a corresponding increase in revenue. 12 Table of Contents Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. Our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by: • the timing and volume of work under contract; • changes in national, regional, local and general economic conditions; • the budgetary spending patterns of customers; • variations in margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; • a change in the demand for our services; • increased costs of performance of our services caused by severe weather conditions; • increases in design and construction costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers; • the termination of existing agreements; • losses experienced in our operations that are not covered by insurance; • a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; • availability of qualified labor hired for specific projects; and • changes in bonding requirements applicable to existing and new agreements. We could be adversely affected by the loss of key management personnel. Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our executive officers and senior management, including those of our subsidiaries. Other than with respect to our Chief Executive Officer, we do not have employment or non-competition agreements with any of our employees. We believe that key members of our senior management possess valuable industry knowledge, relationships and experience that are important to the successful operation of our business. The relationships between our executive officers and senior management and our customers are important to our being retained. We are also dependent upon our project managers and field supervisors who are responsible for managing and drawing employees to our projects. There can be no assurance that any individual will continue in his or her capacity for any particular period of time. Industry-wide competition for managerial talent in electrical construction has increased and the loss of one or more of our key employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business and relationships with our customers. The loss of any of our executive officers or senior management could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Acts of war or terrorism may seriously harm our business. Acts of war, any outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, including the armed conflict in the Middle East, or acts of terrorism, may cause disruption to the economy, our company, our employees and our customers, which could adversely impact our total revenue and earnings. We may not be able to utilize all of our deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2010, we have determined that we are in a cumulative loss position based on the guidance in ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. Due to this cumulative loss position and lack of sufficient objective evidence regarding the realization of our deferred tax assets in the foreseeable future, we have recorded a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets. Although we do expect to recover from the current economic downturn to normal profit levels in the future, it may be necessary for us to record additional valuation allowances - related to operating losses. Valuation allowances could materially increase our income tax expense or reduce our income tax benefit, and therefore adversely affect our results of operations and tangible net worth in the period in which such valuation allowance is recorded. We could be adversely affected by liabilities associated with our former mining business. Through certain of our subsidiaries and predecessor companies, we were previously engaged in mining activities, and all such activities were discontinued or disposed of prior to 2003. However, we could still be liable for previous activities at sites we once owned. We were identified as a PRP for investigation and removal activities at one such 13 Table of Contents site and in September 2009 we entered into a settlement agreement with the EPA with respect thereto, pursuant to which we made a cash payment to the EPA of $73,000. On July 12, 2010, regarding a separate matter, the Company received a request for information from the EPA relating to mining activities involving the Wentworth Site. On July 30, 2010, the Company submitted a response to the EPA’s request. On December 22, 2010, the Company received a Demand for Reimbursement of Costs from the EPA relating to the Wentworth Site, together with ancillary documents including a draft form of settlement agreement. On January 27, 2011, the Company accepted a Settlement Agreement proposed by the EPA wherein the Company agrees to pay the EPA the sum of $76,630 in exchange for a covenant not to sue from the EPA relating to the Wentworth Site, along with other protections and subject to various terms and conditions as set forth more fully in the Settlement Agreement. Public Notice of the proposed settlement was published on March 17, 2011. Comments are due by May 14, 2011. It is not known whether any comments will be filed in response to the Public Notice or whether EPA or the U.S. Department of Justice will seek to withdraw or otherwise modify the Settlement Agreement based on such comments, as discussed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” herein. The discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 