Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Our future success is dependent on demand for and market acceptance of new commercial and military aircraft programs. We are currently under contract to supply components and systems for a number of new commercial, general aviation and military aircraft programs, including the Airbus A380 and A350 XWB, the Boeing 787 and 747-8, the Bombardier CSeries, the Mitsubishi Regional Jet, the Dassault Falcon 7X and the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II. We have made and will continue to make substantial investments and incur substantial development costs in connection with these programs. We cannot provide assurance that each of these programs will enter full-scale production as expected or that demand for each aircraft will be sufficient to allow us to recover our investment in these programs. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to extend our contracts relating to these programs beyond the initial contract periods. If any of these programs are not successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The market segments we serve are cyclical and sensitive to domestic and foreign economic considerations that could adversely affect our business and financial results. The market segments in which we sell our products are, to varying degrees, cyclical, and have experienced periodic downturns in demand. For example, certain of our commercial aviation products sold to aircraft manufacturers have experienced downturns during slowdowns in the commercial airline industry and during periods of weak general economic conditions, as demand for new aircraft typically declines during these periods. Aftermarket demand for many of our products also is exposed to these business downturns and we have experienced periods of declining demand for our products from aircraft operators in the recent past and may experience downturns in the future. Capital spending by airlines and aircraft manufacturers may be influenced by a variety of factors including current and predicted traffic levels, load factors, aircraft fuel pricing, labor issues, 7 Table of Contents competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, worldwide airline profitability and backlog levels. Also, because a substantial portion of commercial airplane OE deliveries are scheduled beyond 2010, changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or canceled. Aftermarket sales and service trends are affected by similar factors, including usage, pricing, regulatory changes, the retirement of older aircraft and technological improvements that increase reliability and performance. Credit availability to airlines and airline leasing companies also could impact the demand for new aircraft. A reduction in spending by aircraft manufacturers, airlines, airline customers or airline leasing companies could have a significant effect on the demand for our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Current conditions in the airline industry could adversely affect our business and financial results. Increases in fuel costs, global economic conditions, high labor costs and heightened competition from low cost carriers have adversely affected the financial condition of some commercial airlines. Over the past ten years, several airlines have declared bankruptcy. A portion of our sales are derived from the sale of products directly to airlines, and we sometimes provide sales incentives to airlines and record sales incentives as other assets. If an airline declares bankruptcy, we may be unable to collect our outstanding accounts receivable from the airline and we may be required to record a charge related to unamortized sales incentives to the extent they cannot be recovered. A significant decline in business with Airbus or Boeing could adversely affect our business and financial results. For the year 2010, approximately 17% of our direct and indirect sales were made to Airbus and approximately 15% of our direct and indirect sales were made to Boeing for all categories of products, including OE and aftermarket products for commercial and military aircraft and space applications. Accordingly, a significant reduction in purchases by either of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Demand for our defense and space-related products is dependent upon government spending. Approximately 32% of our sales for the year 2010 were derived from the defense and space market segment. Included in that category are direct and indirect sales to the U.S. Government, which represented approximately 25% of our sales for 2010. The defense and space market segment is largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. We cannot assure you that an increase in defense spending will be allocated to programs that would benefit our business. Moreover, we cannot assure you that new military aircraft programs in which we participate will enter full-scale production as expected. A change in levels of defense spending or levels of military flight operations could curtail or enhance our prospects in this market segment, depending upon the programs affected. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain necessary raw materials and components. We purchase a variety of raw materials and components for use in the manufacture of our products, including aluminum, titanium, steel, various specialty metals and carbon fiber. Our inability to obtain necessary raw materials or an unanticipated increase in the price of such raw materials could impact our capability to manufacture our products and the profitability of our products. In addition, the loss of a significant supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet our performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could affect our ability to complete 8 Table of Contents our contractual obligations to our customers on a satisfactory, timely and/or profitable basis. These events may adversely affect our operating results, result in the termination of customer contracts or damage our reputation and relationships with our customers. All of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. We use a number of estimates in accounting for some long-term contracts. Changes in our estimates could materially affect our future financial results. We account for sales and profits on some long-term contracts in accordance with the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cumulative catch-up method to account for updates in estimates. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting involves the use of various estimating techniques to project revenues and costs at completion and various assumptions and projections relative to the outcome of future events, including the quantity and timing of product deliveries, future labor performance and rates, and material and overhead costs. These assumptions involve various levels of expected performance improvements. Under the cumulative catch-up method, the impact of updates in our estimates related to units shipped to date is recognized immediately. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimates described above, it is likely that we could record materially different amounts if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances or estimates were to change. Accordingly, updates in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may materially affect our future financial performance. Competitive pressures may adversely affect our business and financial results. The aerospace industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of U.S. and foreign companies that are both larger and smaller than we are in terms of resources and market share, and some of which are our customers. While we are the market and technology leader in many of our products, in certain areas some of our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing or marketing capabilities and lower manufacturing cost. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. The significant consolidation occurring in the aerospace industry could adversely affect our business and financial results. The aerospace industry in which we operate has been experiencing significant consolidation among suppliers, including us and our competitors, and our customers. There have been mergers and global alliances in the aerospace industry to achieve greater economies of scale and enhanced geographic reach. Aircraft manufacturers have made acquisitions to expand their product portfolios to better compete in the global marketplace. In addition, aviation suppliers have been consolidating and forming alliances to broaden their product and integrated system offerings and achieve critical mass. This supplier consolidation is in part attributable to aircraft manufacturers and airlines more frequently awarding long-term sole source or preferred supplier contracts to the most capable suppliers, thus reducing the total number of suppliers from whom components and systems are purchased. Our business and financial results may be adversely impacted as a result of consolidation by our competitors, customers or suppliers. Expenses related to employee and retiree medical and pension benefits may continue to rise. We have periodically experienced significant increases in expenses related to our employee and retiree medical and pension benefits. Although we have taken action seeking to contain these cost increases, including making material changes to some of these plans, there are risks that 9 Table of Contents our expenses will rise as a result of continued increases in medical costs due to increased usage of medical benefits and medical cost inflation. Pension expense may increase if investment returns on our pension plan assets do not meet our long-term return assumption, if there are reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligation, or if other actuarial assumptions are not realized. The aerospace industry is highly regulated. The aerospace industry is highly regulated in the U.S. by the Federal Aviation Administration and in other countries by similar regulatory agencies. We must be certified by these agencies and, in some cases, by individual OE manufacturers in order to engineer and service systems and components used in specific aircraft models. If material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our operations would be adversely affected. New or more stringent governmental regulations may be adopted, or industry oversight heightened, and we may incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or any heightened industry oversight. We may have liabilities relating to environmental laws and regulations that could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations which may require that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. We currently are involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites for which we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under these laws. Based on currently available information, we do not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to such sites will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We cannot assure you that additional future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or cash flows in a given period. In connection with the divestiture of our tire, vinyl and other businesses, we received contractual rights of indemnification from third parties for environmental and other claims arising out of the divested businesses. If these third parties do not honor their indemnification obligations to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or cash flows. Any material product liability claims in excess of insurance may adversely affect us. We are exposed to potential liability for personal injury or death with respect to products that have been designed, manufactured, serviced or sold by us, including potential liability for asbestos and other toxic tort claims. While we believe that we have substantial insurance coverage available to us related to such claims, our insurance may not cover all liabilities. Additionally, insurance coverage may not be available in the future at a reasonable cost. Any material liability not covered by insurance or for which third-party indemnification is not available could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Any material product warranty obligations may adversely affect us. Our operations expose us to potential liability for warranty claims made by third parties with respect to aircraft components that have been designed, manufactured, distributed or serviced by us. Any material product warranty obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Our operations depend on our production facilities throughout the world. These production facilities are subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production. Our production facilities could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or a pandemic. Although we have obtained property damage and business interruption insurance, a major catastrophe such as an earthquake or other natural disaster at any of our sites, or significant labor strikes, work stoppages, political unrest, war or terrorist activities in any of the areas where we conduct operations, could result in a prolonged interruption of our business. Any disruption resulting from these events could cause significant delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers. We cannot assure you that we will have insurance to adequately compensate us for any of these events. We have significant international operations and assets and are therefore subject to additional financial and regulatory risks. We have operations and assets throughout the world. In addition, we sell our products and services outside of the U.S. and seek to increase our level of international business activity. Accordingly, we are subject to various risks, including: U.S.-imposed embargoes of sales to specific countries; foreign import controls (which may be arbitrarily imposed or enforced); price and currency controls; exchange rate fluctuations; dividend remittance restrictions; expropriation of assets; war, civil uprisings and riots; government instability; the necessity of obtaining governmental approval for new and continuing products and operations; legal systems of decrees, laws, taxes, regulations, interpretations and court decisions that are not always fully developed and that may be retroactively or arbitrarily applied; and difficulties in managing a global enterprise. We also may be subject to unanticipated income taxes, excise duties, import taxes, export taxes or other governmental assessments. Any of these events could result in a loss of business or other unexpected costs that could reduce our sales or profits and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. We are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. These risks include transactions denominated in foreign currencies and the translation of certain non-functional currency balances of our subsidiaries. Our international operations also expose us to translation risk when the local currency financial statements are translated to U.S. Dollars, our reporting currency. As currency exchange rates fluctuate, translation of the statements of income of international businesses into U.S. Dollars will affect comparability of revenues and expenses between years. Certain of our contracts could subject us to losses in the event we experience cost overruns. At the time we bid for business on OE manufacturers (OEM) platforms, we must make certain assumptions with respect to our estimated costs and expenditures in developing, manufacturing and selling our products. In certain cases, these contracts involve new technologies or applications and extend for many years. As a result, it often is difficult to predict the ultimate costs and expenditures associated with these contracts. Factors such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in raw material prices and supplier problems can lead to cost overruns, resulting in the contractual price becoming less profitable or even unprofitable. Any inability to accurately predict the costs associated with our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows in a particular period. We expect to continue to make acquisitions, which could involve certain risks and uncertainties. Over the last three years, we have completed seven acquisitions as part of our growth strategy and in an effort to enhance shareholder value. We expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future. There are risks and uncertainties related to acquisitions, including: integration 11 Table of Contents difficulties; unrealized sales expectations from the acquired business; unrealized synergies and cost savings; unknown or underestimated liabilities; and potential loss of key management employees of the acquired business. Any of these risks or uncertainties could result in an acquisition having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows in a particular period. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 