ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Market influences and cost pressures The overall pump industry is cyclical in nature, and some of its business activity is generally related to business conditions in the durable goods and capital equipment markets. The Company cannot predict the timing or extent of future economic or market swings. Additionally, raw material and energy purchases are major drivers of costs in the manufacture of pumps, and these costs are usually highly unpredictable. While efforts are made to recoup higher production costs through increased prices, the future acceptability of such price increases by customers is not guaranteed due to the highly competitive market place. Compliance with a variety of import and export laws and regulations, and the cost of compliance as well as the consequences of failure to properly comply with such laws The Company is subject to a variety of laws regarding international operations, including regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security and various foreign governmental agencies. The Company cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations and trading practices might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could limit the countries in which certain of our products may be manufactured or sold or could restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, products from foreign sources. In addition, actual or alleged violations of import-export laws could result in enforcement actions and substantial financial penalties. Results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments used in applying accounting policies or due to changes in accounting standards The methods, estimates and judgments the Company uses in applying our accounting policies are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead the Company to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Additionally, changes in accounting standards, including new interpretations and application of accounting standards, may change the Company’s reported financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Family ownership of common equity A substantial percentage of the Company’s Common Shares is held by various members of the Gorman and Rupp families and their affiliates. These family holdings do not typically trade; therefore, the Common Shares, in part because of these circumstances, generally have a history of relatively thin trading experiences on the NYSE Amex Exchange. 5 Table of Contents PART I — CONTINUED ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 