ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS – CONTINUED of future local net income. Historically these exchange rate fluctuations have not materially affected our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities The Company’s operations and properties are subject to numerous, and increasing, domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations which can impose operating and financial sanctions for violations. Moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies and may require changes in operational practices, standards and expectations and in turn increase the Company’s compliance costs. Periodically, the Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. The Company monitors its environmental responsibilities, together with trends in the related laws, and believes it is in substantial compliance with current regulations. The Company believes that reasonably anticipated future environmental compliance expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Defined benefit pension plan settlement expense The Company sponsors a defined benefit pension plan covering most domestic employees and accrues amounts for funding of its obligations under the plan. The defined benefit pension plan allows eligible retiring employees to receive a lump-sum distribution for benefits earned in lieu of annual payments and most retirees elect this option. Under applicable accounting rules, if the lump-sum distributions made for a plan year exceed an actuarially-determined threshold of the total of the service cost and interest cost for the plan year, the Company at such point would need to recognize for that year’s results of operations a settlement expense for the resulting unrecognized actuarial loss. The Company has been required to make such adjustments in some prior years and, if such non-cash adjustments are necessary in future periods, they may be comparably adverse to the Company’s operating results. Family ownership of common equity A substantial percentage of the Company’s Common Shares is held by various members of the Gorman and Rupp families and their affiliates. These family holdings do not typically trade; therefore, the Common Shares, in part because of these circumstances, generally have a history of relatively low volume trading experiences on the NYSE MKT Exchange. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 