ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Continuation of current and projected future business environment The overall pump industry is cyclical in nature, and some of its business activity is related to general business conditions in the durable goods and capital equipment markets. Demand for most of the Company’s products and services is affected by the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by its customers. The level of such expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. Also, volatility in commodity prices such as oil and agricultural products can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. Additionally, raw material and energy expenses are substantive drivers of costs in the manufacture of pumps and changes of these costs are often unpredictable. While efforts are made to recoup higher production costs through increased prices, the future acceptability of such price increases by customers is not guaranteed due to the highly competitive market place. Compliance with, and costs related to, a variety of import and export laws and regulations The Company is subject to a variety of laws regarding international operations, including regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security and various foreign governmental agencies. Actual 4 PART I – CONTINUED ITEM 1. BUSINESS – CONTINUED or alleged violations of import-export laws could result in enforcement actions and financial penalties. The Company cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations and trading practices might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could limit the countries in which certain of our products may be manufactured or sold or could restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, products from foreign sources. International operations exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates Approximately 10% of the Company’s revenue and certain of its costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The primary currencies to which the Company has exposure are the Canadian Dollar, the Euro and the South African Rand. Devaluations of these currencies can reduce the value of the Company’s local monetary assets, reduce the U.S. dollar value of its local cash flow, and generate local currency losses that may reduce the U.S. dollar value of future local net income. Exchange rate fluctuations could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities The Company’s operations and properties are subject to various, and increasingly numerous, domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations which can impose operating and financial sanctions for violations. Moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies and may require changes in operational practices, standards and expectations and in turn increase the Company’s compliance costs. Periodically, the Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. The Company monitors its environmental responsibilities, together with trends in the related laws, and believes it is in substantial compliance with current regulations. If the Company is required to incur increased compliance costs or violates environmental laws or regulations, future environmental compliance expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Defined benefit pension plan settlement expense The Company sponsors a defined benefit pension plan covering certain domestic employees and accrues amounts for funding of its obligations under the plan. The defined benefit pension plan allows eligible retiring employees to receive a lump-sum distribution for benefits earned in lieu of annual payments and most retirees elect this option. Under applicable accounting rules, if the lump-sum distributions made for a plan year exceed an actuarially-determined threshold of the total of the service cost and interest cost for the plan year, the Company at such point would need to recognize for that year’s results of operations a settlement expense for the resulting unrecognized actuarial loss. The Company has been required to make such adjustments in some prior years, including 2015, and, if such non-cash adjustments are necessary in future periods, they may be adverse to the Company’s operating results. Family ownership of common equity A substantial percentage of the Company’s Common Shares is held by various members of the Gorman and Rupp families and their affiliates. These family holdings do not typically trade; therefore, the Common Shares, in part because of these circumstances, generally have a history of relatively low volume trading experiences on the NYSE MKT Exchange. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 5 PART I – CONTINUED 