ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Market influences and cost pressures The overall pump industry is cyclical in nature, and some of its business activity is generally related to business conditions in the durable goods and capital equipment markets. The Company cannot predict the timing or extent of future economic or market swings. Additionally, raw material and energy purchases are major drivers of costs in the manufacture of pumps, and these costs are usually highly unpredictable. While efforts are made to recoup higher production costs through increased prices, the future acceptability of such price increases by customers is not guaranteed due to the highly competitive market place. Compliance with , and costs related to, a variety of import and export laws and regulations and the consequences of failure to properly comply with such laws The Company is subject to a variety of laws regarding international operations, including regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security and various foreign governmental agencies. Actual or alleged violations of import-export laws could result in enforcement actions and substantial financial penalties. The Company cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations and trading practices might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could limit the countries in which certain of our products may be manufactured or sold or could restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, products from foreign sources. Family ownership of common equity A substantial percentage of the Company’s Common Shares is held by various members of the Gorman and Rupp families and their affiliates. These family holdings do not typically trade; therefore, the Common Shares, in part because of these circumstances, generally have a history of relatively low volume trading experiences on the NYSE MKT Exchange. 5 PART I – CONTINUED ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 