Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis in the Annual Report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause Alcoa’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements: 17 Table of Contents Alcoa is subject to cyclical fluctuations in LME prices, economic conditions generally, and aluminum end-use markets. The aluminum industry is highly cyclical, with prices subject to worldwide market forces of supply and demand and other influences. Prices can be volatile. Alcoa uses contractual arrangements with customers, as well as forward, futures and options contracts, to manage its exposure to the volatility of LME-based prices as market conditions warrant from time to time, and is product and segment diversified. However, Alcoa’s results of operations could be affected by material adverse changes in economic or aluminum industry conditions generally or in the markets served by Alcoa, including the transportation, building and construction, distribution, packaging, industrial gas turbine and other markets. Alcoa’s operations consume substantial amounts of energy; profitability may decline if energy costs rise or if energy supplies are interrupted. Alcoa consumes substantial amounts of energy in its operations. Although Alcoa generally expects to meet the energy requirements for its alumina refineries and primary aluminum smelters from internal sources or from long-term contracts, the following could affect Alcoa’s results of operations: • significant increases in electricity costs rendering smelter operations uneconomic; • significant increases in natural gas prices; • unavailability of electrical power or other energy sources due to droughts, hurricanes or other natural causes; • unavailability of energy due to energy shortages resulting in insufficient supplies to serve consumers; • interruptions in energy supply due to equipment failure or other causes; or • curtailment of one or more refineries or smelters due to inability to extend energy contracts upon expiration or negotiate new arrangements on cost-effective terms. Alcoa’s profitability could be adversely affected by increases in the cost of raw materials. Alcoa’s results of operations will be affected by increases in the cost of raw materials, including caustic soda, calcined petroleum coke and resins, and freight costs associated with transporting raw materials to refining and smelting locations, in addition to energy. Alcoa may not be able to offset fully the effects of higher raw material costs or energy costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. Union disputes and other employee relations issues could adversely affect Alcoa’s financial results. Some of Alcoa’s employees are represented by labor unions in a number of countries under various collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. Alcoa may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate collective bargaining agreements in the United States and other countries when they expire. In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at Alcoa’s facilities in the future. Alcoa may also be subject to general country strikes or work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements. Any such work stoppages (or potential work stoppages) could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Alcoa may not be able to successfully implement its growth strategy. Alcoa has an organic growth strategy focused on its “upstream” businesses. Significant expansion or growth projects are in various stages of development or negotiation in several countries including Australia, Brazil, Brunei, Greenland, Guinea, Iceland, Jamaica and Trinidad. These projects may not be completed or may be completed at higher cost than expected due to shortages of labor or materials, inability to obtain energy sources at competitive rates, inability to negotiate favorable contracts, inability to finance the construction of projects at favorable rates of interest, currency fluctuations, political unrest, regulatory developments and commercial risks, including but not limited to adverse developments in the global supply and demand for alumina and aluminum. 18 Table of Contents As part of its strategy for growth, Alcoa has made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures and form strategic alliances. There can be no assurance that these will be completed or beneficial to Alcoa or that targeted completion dates will be met. Alcoa’s operations are exposed to business and operational risks, changes in conditions and events beyond its control in the countries in which it operates. Alcoa has investments, activities and expansion projects in numerous countries outside the U.S. and in emerging markets, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, member countries of the European Union, Ghana, Greenland, Guinea, Iceland, India, Jamaica, Korea, Mexico, Norway, Russia, Suriname, and Vietnam. Changes in the laws or governmental policies in the countries in which Alcoa operates could affect its business in such countries and Alcoa’s results of operations. Alcoa is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, as well as inflation and other economic factors in the countries in which it operates. Economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, and competitive factors in the countries in which Alcoa operates, could affect its revenues, expenses and results of operations. Changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, particularly the Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Euro and Australian dollar, may affect profitability as some important raw materials are purchased in other currencies, while products generally are sold in U.S. dollars. The influence of China may negatively impact our results in the event of a slowdown in consumption. The Chinese market has become a significant source of global demand for commodities. China now represents in excess of 25 percent of aluminum demand. China’s demand for aluminum has more than doubled in the last five years. Consequently, in response to its increased demand for commodities, China is increasingly seeking self-sufficiency in key commodities, including investments in additional developments in other countries. These investments may impact future demand and supply balances and prices. Alcoa faces significant price competition from other aluminum producers and end-use markets for certain Alcoa products that are highly competitive, such that customers may be willing to accept substitutes for products sold by Alcoa. The markets for most aluminum products are highly competitive. In addition, aluminum competes with other materials, such as steel, plastics, composites, and glass, among others, for various applications in Alcoa’s key markets. See also “Competitive Conditions” above. The willingness of customers to accept substitutions for the products sold by Alcoa, the ability of large customers to exert leverage in the marketplace to affect the pricing for fabricated aluminum products, or other developments by or affecting Alcoa’s competitors or customers could affect Alcoa’s results of operations. Further metals industry consolidation could impact our business. The metals industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years and there may be further industry consolidation in the future. Although current industry consolidation has not negatively impacted our business, further consolidation in the aluminum industry could possibly have negative impacts that we cannot reliably predict. 19 Table of Contents Alcoa could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of a significant customer or customers. A significant downturn in the business or financial condition of a key customer or customers supplied by Alcoa could affect Alcoa’s results of operations in a particular period. Alcoa’s customers may experience delays in the launch of new products due to technical and design difficulties and if Alcoa is not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, profitability may be adversely affected. Alcoa may not be able to successfully implement its productivity and cost-reduction initiatives. Alcoa has undertaken and may continue to undertake productivity and cost-reduction initiatives to improve performance, including deployment of company-wide business process models, such as the Alcoa Business System and the Alcoa Enterprise Business Solution, an initiative designed to build a common global infrastructure across Alcoa for data, processes and supporting software. There can be no assurance that these initiatives will be completed or beneficial to Alcoa or that any estimated cost savings from such activities will be realized. Alcoa may not be able to successfully develop and implement new technology initiatives. Alcoa is working on new developments in advanced smelting process technologies, including inert anode and carbothermic technology, in addition to multi-alloy casting processes. There can be no assurance that such technologies will be commercially feasible or beneficial to Alcoa. Alcoa is subject to a broad range of environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates and may be exposed to substantial costs and liabilities associated with such laws. Alcoa’s operations worldwide are subject to numerous complex and increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations. The costs of complying with such environmental laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and cleanups of sites, as well as internal voluntary programs, are significant and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. Alcoa’s results of operations or liquidity in a particular period could be affected by certain environmental matters, including remediation costs and damages related to several sites. Climate change, climate change regulations and greenhouse effects may adversely impact our operations and markets. Energy is a significant input in a number of Alcoa’s operations. There is growing recognition that energy consumption is a contributor to global warming, greenhouse effects and potentially climate change. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory change in response to the potential impacts of climate change. There is also current and emerging regulation, such as the mandatory renewable energy target in Australia, or potential carbon trading regimes that will affect energy prices. Alcoa will likely see changes in the margins of greenhouse gas-intensive assets and energy-intensive assets as a result of regulatory impacts in the countries in which the company operates. These regulatory mechanisms may be either voluntary or legislated and may impact Alcoa’s operations directly or indirectly through customers. Inconsistency of regulations may also change the attractiveness of the locations of some of the company’s assets. Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in countries in which Alcoa operates. The potential physical impacts of climate change on the company’s operations are highly uncertain, and will be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of Alcoa’s operations. 20 Table of Contents Alcoa may be exposed to significant legal proceedings, investigations or changes in law. Alcoa’s results of operations or liquidity in a particular period could be affected by new or increasingly stringent laws, regulatory requirements or interpretations or significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to Alcoa, including product liability, safety and health and other claims. Alcoa could be required to make additional contributions to its defined benefit pension plans as a result of adverse changes in interest rates and the capital markets. Alcoa’s estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and other postretirement benefits incorporate significant assumptions including the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the long-term rate of return on plan assets and several assumptions relating to the employee workforce (salary increases, medical costs, retirement age and mortality). Alcoa’s results of operations, liquidity or shareholders’ equity in a particular period could be affected by a decline in the rate of return on plan assets, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability or changes in employee workforce assumptions. Unexpected events may increase Alcoa’s cost of doing business or disrupt Alcoa’s operations. Unexpected events, including fires or explosions at facilities, natural disasters, war or terrorist activities, unplanned outages, supply disruptions, or failure of equipment or processes to meet specifications, may increase the cost of doing business or otherwise impact Alcoa’s financial performance. Further, existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for all of the costs that may arise from such events. The above list of important factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 