Item 1A. Risk Factors Foreign Operations — Conditions in foreign countries and changes in foreign exchange rates may impact our results of operations Graco has operations in North and South America, Europe and Asia. In 2005, approximately 40% of our sales was generated by customers located outside the United States. Sales to foreign customers involve special risks, including the risk of terrorist activities and civil disturbances, and special taxes, regulations and restrictions. We are increasing our presence in the Asia Pacific region. We anticipate that we will begin assembling products at our factory in Suzhou, P.R.C. in the third quarter of 2006 and will be sourcing many of the components used in the assembly process from the local market. In addition, sales in Eastern Europe are increasing at a faster rate than in Western Europe. We are sourcing more of our materials and components from suppliers outside the United States. Long lead times and quality issues could impact our profitability. Our revenues and net income may be adversely affected by more volatile economic and political conditions in the Middle East, Asia Pacific and Europe. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies will impact our reported sales and earnings. Major Customers — Graco’s Contractor Equipment segment depends on a few large customers for a significant portion of its sales. Significant declines in the level of purchases by these customers could reduce our sales. Graco derives a significant amount of revenue from a few large customers. Substantial decreases in purchases by these customers, difficulty in collecting amounts due or the loss of their business would adversely affect the sales of the Company’s Contractor Equipment segment. The business of these customers is dependent upon the economic vitality of the construction and home repair markets. If these markets decline, the business of our customers could be adversely affected and their purchases of Graco equipment could decrease. Acquisitions — Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Suitable acquisitions must be located, completed and integrated into our existing businesses in order for this strategy to be successful. We have identified acquisitions as one of the strategies by which we intend to grow our business. If we do not successfully acquire and integrate businesses into our current business model, or realize projected efficiencies and cost-savings from acquired businesses, we may be unable to meet our growth objectives. Natural Disasters — Our operations are at risk of damage or destruction by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tornadoes or unusually heavy precipitation. The loss of, or substantial damage to, one of our facilities could make it difficult to supply our customers with product and provide our employees with work. Our manufacturing plant in Minneapolis, which supplies our Industrial/Automotive and Lubrication equipment, is on the banks of the Mississippi River. Flooding could also damage our European headquarters and warehouse in Maasmechelen, Belgium. Tornadoes could damage or destroy our facilities in Sioux Falls, Rogers or Minneapolis. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 