Item 1A. Risk Factors Economic Environment — Demand for our products depends on the level of commercial and industrial activity worldwide. An economic downturn or financial market turmoil may depress demand for our equipment in all major geographies and markets. If our distributors and OEMs are unable to purchase our products because of unavailable credit or unfavorable credit terms or are simply unwilling to purchase our products, our net sales and earnings will be adversely affected. Major Customers — Our Contractor segment depends on a few large customers for a significant portion of its sales. Significant declines in the level of purchases by these customers could reduce our sales and impact segment profitability. Our Contractor segment derives a significant amount of revenue from a few large customers. Substantial decreases in purchases by these customers, difficulty in collecting amounts due or the loss of their business would adversely affect the profitability of this segment. The business of these customers is dependent upon the economic vitality of the construction and home maintenance markets. If these markets decline, the business of our customers could be adversely affected and their purchases of our equipment could decrease. Foreign Operations — Conditions in foreign countries and changes in foreign exchange rates may impact our sales volume, rate of growth or profitability. In 2010, approximately 54 percent of our sales were generated by customers located outside the United States. Operations located outside the United States expose us to special risks, including the risk of terrorist activities, civil disturbances, environmental catastrophes, supply chain disruptions, and special taxes, regulations and restrictions. We are increasing our presence in advancing economies and our revenues and net income may be adversely affected by the more volatile economic and political conditions prevalent in these regions. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies will impact our reported sales and earnings and may make it difficult for some of our distributors to purchase products. Suppliers — Risks associated with foreign sourcing of raw materials and components, supply interruption, delays in raw material or component delivery or supply shortages may adversely affect our production or profitability. Our Company is sourcing an increasing percentage of our materials and components from suppliers outside the United States. Long lead times or supply interruptions associated with a global supply base may reduce our flexibility and make it more difficult to respond promptly to fluctuations in demand or respond quickly to product quality problems. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies and fluctuations in the price of commodities may impact the manufacturing costs of our products and affect our profitability. Protective tariffs, unpredictable changes in duty rates, and trade regulation changes may make certain foreign-sourced parts no longer competitively priced. Long supply chains may be disrupted by environmental events. 8 Table of Contents Acquisitions — Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Suitable acquisitions must be located, completed and effectively integrated into our existing businesses in order for this strategy to be successful. We have identified acquisitions as one of the strategies by which we intend to grow our business. If we are unable to obtain financing at a reasonable cost, are unsuccessful in acquiring and integrating businesses into our business, or do not realize projected efficiencies and cost-savings from the businesses we acquire, we may be unable to meet our growth or profit objectives. Natural Disasters — Our operations are at risk of damage or destruction by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tornadoes or unusually heavy precipitation. The loss of, or substantial damage to, one of our facilities could make it difficult to supply our customers with product and provide our employees with work. Our manufacturing and distribution facility in Minneapolis is on the banks of the Mississippi River where it is exposed to flooding. Flooding could also damage our European headquarters and warehouse in Maasmechelen, Belgium or our factory in Suzhou, P.R.C. Tornadoes could damage or destroy our facilities in Sioux Falls, Rogers, Minneapolis or Anoka and a typhoon could do the same to our facility in Suzhou. An earthquake may adversely impact our operations in Suzhou. Competition — Demand for our products may be affected by new entrants who copy our products and infringe on our intellectual property. From time to time, our Company has been faced with instances where competitors have intentionally infringed our intellectual property and/or taken advantage of our design and development efforts. In some instances, these competitors have launched broad marketing campaigns. The inability of our Company to effectively meet these challenges could adversely affect our revenues and profits and hamper our ability to grow. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 