Item 1A. Risk Factors Economic Environment – Demand for our products depends on the level of commercial and industrial activity worldwide. The current economic downturn and financial market turmoil has depressed demand for our equipment in all major geographies and in all major markets. If our distributors and OEMs remain unable to purchase our products because of unavailable credit or unfavorable credit terms or are simply unwilling to purchase our products, our net sales and earnings will be adversely affected. Major Customers — Our Contractor segment depends on a few large customers for a significant portion of its sales. Significant declines in the level of purchases by these customers could reduce our sales. Our Contractor segment derives a significant amount of revenue from a few large customers. Substantial decreases in purchases by these customers, difficulty in collecting amounts due or the loss of their business would adversely affect the profitability of this segment. The business of these customers is dependent upon the economic vitality of the construction and home maintenance markets. If these markets decline, the business of our customers could be adversely affected and their purchases of our equipment could decrease. Acquisitions — Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Suitable acquisitions must be located, completed and integrated into our existing businesses in order for this strategy to be successful. We have identified acquisitions as one of the strategies by which we intend to grow our business. If we are unable to obtain financing at a reasonable cost, are unsuccessful in acquiring and integrating businesses into our current business model, or do not realize projected efficiencies and cost-savings from the businesses we acquire, we may be unable to meet our growth or profit objectives. Foreign Operations — Conditions in foreign countries and changes in foreign exchange rates may impact our sales volume, rate of growth or profitability. In 2008, approximately 53 percent of our sales was generated by customers located outside the United States. Sales to customers located outside the United States expose us to special risks, including the risk of terrorist activities, civil disturbances, and special taxes, regulations and restrictions. We are increasing our presence in the Asia Pacific region, South America, Eastern Europe and the Middle East. We assemble products at our factory in Suzhou, P.R.C. and source an increasing number of the components and materials used in the assembly process from the local market. Sales in Eastern Europe, Russia and the former socialist republics are increasing at a faster rate than in Western Europe. Our revenues and net income may be adversely affected by more volatile economic and political conditions in Asia, South America, Eastern Europe and the Middle East. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies will impact our reported sales and earnings. Foreign Suppliers – Our Company has increased its sourcing of raw materials and components from vendors located outside the United States. Interruption or delays in delivery may adversely affect our profitability. We are sourcing an increasing percentage of our materials and components from suppliers outside the United States. Long lead times may reduce our flexibility and make it more difficult to respond promptly to fluctuations in demand. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies and fluctuations in the price of oil may impact the manufacturing costs of our products and affect our profitability. Natural Disasters — Our operations are at risk of damage or destruction by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tornadoes or unusually heavy precipitation. The loss of, or substantial damage to, one of our facilities could make it difficult to supply our customers with product and provide our employees with work. Our manufacturing and distribution facility in Minneapolis is on the banks of the Mississippi River where it is exposed to flooding. Flooding could also damage our European headquarters and warehouse in Maasmechelen, Belgium or our factory in Suzhou, P.R.C. Tornadoes could damage or destroy our facilities in Sioux Falls, Rogers, Minneapolis or Anoka and a typhoon could do the same to our facility in Suzhou. An earthquake may adversely impact our operations in Suzhou. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 