Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes in Laws and Regulations – Changes may impact how we can do business and the cost of doing business around the world. The speed and frequency of implementation and the complexity of new or revised laws and regulations globally appear to be increasing. In addition, as our business grows and/or geographically expands, we may become subject to laws and regulations previously inapplicable to our business. These laws and regulations increase our costs of doing business, may affect the manner in which our products will be produced or delivered and may impact our long-term ability to provide returns to our shareholders. Economic Environment – Demand for our products depends on the level of commercial and industrial activity worldwide. An economic downturn or financial market turmoil may depress demand for our equipment in all major geographies and markets. If our distributors and original equipment manufacturers are unable to purchase our products because of unavailable credit or unfavorable credit terms or are simply unwilling to purchase our products, our net sales and earnings will be adversely affected. An economic downturn may affect our ability to satisfy the financial covenants in the terms of our financing arrangements. Growth Strategies – Our growth strategies may not provide the return on investment desired if we are not successful in implementation of these strategies. Making acquisitions, investing in new products, expanding geographically and targeting new industries are among our growth strategies. We may not obtain the return on investment desired if we are not successful in implementing these growth strategies. Suitable acquisitions must be located, completed and effectively integrated into or added to our existing businesses or corporate structure for this growth strategy to be successful. We may not be able to obtain financing at a reasonable cost. We may be unsuccessful in acquiring and effectively integrating into or adding businesses to our current operations or corporate structure, and may not realize projected efficiencies and cost-savings from the businesses we acquire. We cannot predict how customers, competitors, suppliers and employees will react to the acquisitions that we make. We make significant investments in developing products that have innovative features and differentiated technology in their industries and in niche markets. We are expanding the geographies in which we do business with third party distributors. We cannot predict whether and when we will be able to realize the expected financial results and accretive effect of the acquisitions that we make, the new products that we develop and the channel expansions that we make. Acquisition - Our acquisition of the finishing businesses of ITW includes a requirement that we divest the acquired Liquid Finishing businesses, which has not been completed and remains subject to FTC approval. On April 2, 2012, the Company closed its $650 million acquisition of the ITW finishing businesses. The acquisition added the Gema business, a global leader in powder coating technology, which represented approximately one-third of the businesses purchased. The remaining two-thirds of the acquisition is a collection of Liquid Finishing businesses, which the FTC has ordered to be held separate 7 Table of Contents from Gema and other Graco businesses while the FTC investigates and considers a settlement proposal from Graco. In compliance with the FTC’s order, the Liquid Finishing businesses are being run independently by existing management under the supervision of a trustee who reports directly to the FTC. In May 2012, the FTC issued a proposed decision and order, subject to a 30-day comment period, which requires Graco to sell the Liquid Finishing business assets, including business activities related to the development, manufacture, and sale of Liquid Finishing products under the Binks®, DeVilbiss®, Ransburg® and BGK brand names, no later than 180 days from the date the order becomes final. The FTC has not yet issued its final decision and order. The Company has retained the services of an investment bank to help it market the Liquid Finishing businesses and identify potential buyers. Until the sale of the Liquid Finishing business assets is completed, Graco must continue to hold the Liquid Finishing business assets separate from its other businesses and maintain them as viable and competitive. The hold separate order requires the Company to provide sufficient resources to maintain the viability, competitiveness and marketability of the Liquid Finishing businesses, including general funds, capital, working capital and reimbursement of losses. We cannot predict to what extent or when the required regulatory approvals will be obtained. We cannot predict the extent of the acquired businesses required to be divested, although we believe that the FTC will require us to sell all of the Liquid Finishing business assets that are currently held separate. Additional risk factors include whether the Company will be able to find a suitable purchaser(s) and structure the divestiture on acceptable terms, and whether the Company will be able to complete a divestiture in a time frame that is satisfactory to the FTC. Political Instability – Uncertainty surrounding political leadership may limit our growth opportunities. Domestic political instability, including government shut downs, may limit our ability to grow our business. International political instability may prevent us from expanding our business into certain geographies and may also limit our ability to grow our business. Terrorist activities and civil disturbances may harm our business. Intellectual Property – Demand for our products may be affected by new entrants who copy our products and/or infringe on our intellectual property. From time to time, our Company has been faced with instances where competitors have infringed or improperly used our intellectual property and/or taken advantage of our design and development efforts. The ability to enforce intellectual property varies across jurisdictions. Asian copiers are becoming more prevalent. If our Company is unable to effectively meet these challenges, they could adversely affect our revenues and profits and hamper our ability to grow. Suppliers – Risks associated with foreign sourcing, supply interruption, delays in raw material or component delivery, supply shortages and counterfeit components may adversely affect our production or profitability. We are sourcing an increasing percentage of our materials and components from suppliers outside the United States, and from suppliers within the United States who engage in foreign sourcing. Long lead times or supply interruptions associated with a global supply base may reduce our flexibility and make it more difficult to respond promptly to fluctuations in demand or respond quickly to product quality problems. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies and fluctuations in the price of commodities may impact the manufacturing costs of our products and affect our profitability. Protective tariffs, unpredictable changes in duty rates, and trade regulation changes may make certain foreign-sourced parts no longer competitively priced. Long supply chains may be disrupted by environmental events or other political factors. Raw materials may become limited in availability from certain regions. Port labor disputes may delay shipments. We source a large volume and a variety of electronic components, which exposes us to an increased risk of counterfeit components entering our supply chain. If counterfeit components unknowingly become part of our products, we may need to stop delivery and rebuild our products. We may be subject to warranty claims and may need to recall products. Foreign Operations – Conducting business internationally exposes our Company to risks that could harm our business. In 2013, approximately 55 percent of our sales were generated by customers located outside the United States. We are increasing our presence in advancing economies. Operating and selling outside of the United States exposes us to certain risks that could adversely impact our sales volume, rate of growth or profitability. These risks include: complying with foreign legal and regulatory requirements, international trade factors (export controls, trade sanctions, duties, tariff barriers and other restrictions), protection of our proprietary technology in certain countries, potentially burdensome taxes, potential difficulties staffing and managing local operations, and changes in exchange rates. Changes in exchange rates will impact our reported sales and earnings and may make it difficult for some of our distributors to purchase products. Competition – Our success depends upon our ability to develop, market and sell new products that meet our customers’ needs, and anticipate industry changes. Our profitability will be affected if we do not develop new products and technologies that meet our customers’ needs. Our ability to develop, market and sell products that meet our customers’ needs depends upon a number of factors, including anticipating the 8 Table of Contents features and products that our customers will need in the future, identifying and entering into new markets, and training our distributors. Changes in industries in which we participate, including consolidation of competitors and customers, could affect our success. Price competition and competitor strategies could affect our success. Legal Proceedings – Costs associated with claims, litigation, administrative proceedings and regulatory reviews, and potentially adverse outcomes, may affect our profitability. As our Company grows, we are at an increased risk of being a target in litigation, administrative proceedings and regulatory reviews. The cost of defending such matters appears to be increasing, particularly in the United States. We may also need to pursue claims or litigation to protect our interests. Such costs may adversely affect our Company’s profitability. Our businesses expose us to potential toxic tort, product liability and commercial claims. Successful claims against the Company may adversely affect our results. Anti-Corruption Laws – We may incur costs and suffer damages if our employees, agents, distributors or suppliers violate anti-bribery, anti-corruption or trade laws and regulations. Bribery, corruption and trade laws and regulations, and enforcement thereof, is increasing in frequency and severity on a global basis. If our internal controls and compliance program do not successfully prevent our employees, agents, distributors, suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business from violating anti-corruption laws, we may incur defense costs, fines, penalties and reputational damage. Major Customers – Our Contractor segment depends on a few large customers for a significant portion of its sales. Significant declines in the level of purchases by these customers could reduce our sales and impact segment profitability. Our Contractor segment derives a significant amount of revenue from a few large customers. Substantial decreases in purchases by these customers, difficulty in collecting amounts due or the loss of their business would adversely affect the profitability of this segment. The business of these customers is dependent upon the economic vitality of the construction and home maintenance markets. If these markets decline, the business of our customers could be adversely affected and their purchases of our equipment could decrease. Variable Industries – Our success may be affected by variations in the construction and automotive industries. Our business may be affected by fluctuations in residential, commercial and institutional building and remodeling activity. Changes in construction materials and techniques may also impact our business. Our business may also be affected by fluctuations in the automotive industry. Security Breaches – Intrusion into our information systems may impact our business. Security breaches or intrusion into our information systems, and the breakdown, interruption in or inadequate upgrading or maintenance of our information processing software, hardware or networks may impact our business. Security breaches or intrusion into the systems or data of the third parties with whom we conduct business may also harm our business. Natural Disasters – Our operations are at risk of damage or destruction by natural disasters. The loss of, or substantial damage to, one of our facilities could make it difficult to supply our customers with product and provide our employees with work. Flooding, tornadoes, typhoons, unusually heavy precipitation or earthquakes could adversely impact our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 9 Table of Contents 