Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes in Laws and Regulations – Changes may impact how we can do business and the cost of doing business around the world. The speed and frequency of implementation of new laws and regulations globally appears to be increasing. In addition, as our business grows and/or geographically expands, we may become subject to laws and regulations previously inapplicable to our business. These new laws and regulations are increasing our costs of doing business and may impact our long-term ability to provide returns to our shareholders. Economic Environment – Demand for our products depends on the level of commercial and industrial activity worldwide. An economic downturn or financial market turmoil, including the European sovereign debt crisis, may depress demand for our equipment in all major geographies and markets. If our distributors and OEMs are unable to purchase our products because of unavailable credit or unfavorable credit terms or are simply unwilling to purchase our products, our net sales and earnings will be adversely affected. Acquisitions – Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Suitable acquisitions must be located, completed and effectively integrated into or added to our existing businesses in order for this strategy to be successful. We have identified acquisitions as one of the strategies by which we intend to grow our business. If we are unable to obtain financing at a reasonable cost, are unsuccessful in acquiring and effectively integrating into or adding businesses to our current operations, or do not realize projected efficiencies and cost-savings from the businesses we acquire, we may be unable to meet our growth or profit objectives. Proposed Acquisition – Our proposed acquisition of the finishing business operations of Illinois Tool Works Inc. is subject to regulatory approvals and the expected benefits from the acquisition may not be fully realized. We have entered into a definitive agreement to purchase the finishing business of Illinois Tools Works Inc. (ITW) in a $650 million cash transaction. We cannot predict whether or when the required regulatory approvals will be obtained or if the closing conditions will be satisfied. On December 15, 2011, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issued an administrative complaint against our Company, seeking to stop the acquisition, and commenced a civil lawsuit in United States District Court, seeking to temporarily enjoin us from acquiring the finishing business of ITW, pending resolution of the administrative proceeding. The Court recently scheduled a trial on the FTC’s motion to enjoin the transaction, commencing July 17, 2012. The purchase agreement with ITW allows for termination by either party after April 1, 2012. We continue to have discussions with ITW and with the FTC regarding possible resolution. The FTC may condition approval of the acquisition on conduct remedies or the divestiture of certain products, certain product categories or other portion of the ITW finishing business, which, if agreed to by the Company, may materially affect the anticipated benefits of the proposed acquisition, and there can be no assurance that such a divestiture can be completed on terms satisfactory to us and the FTC. If we terminate the agreement before April 1, 2012 due to failure to obtain regulatory approval, we will be required to pay a $20 million termination fee. If the transaction closes, significant changes to our financial condition as a result of global economic changes or difficulties in the integration of the newly acquired businesses may affect our ability to obtain the expected benefits from the transaction or to satisfy the financial covenants included in the terms of the financing arrangements. Foreign Operations – Conditions in foreign countries and changes in foreign exchange rates may impact our sales volume, rate of growth or profitability. In 2011, approximately 56 percent of our sales were generated by customers located outside the United States. Operations located outside the United States expose us to special risks, including the risk of terrorist activities, civil disturbances, environmental 7 Table of Contents catastrophes, supply chain disruptions, corruption, and special taxes, regulations and restrictions. Changes in foreign regulations could reduce our growth. We are increasing our presence in advancing economies and political instability, war and volatile economic conditions that are more prevalent in these regions may adversely affect our revenues and net income. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies will impact our reported sales and earnings and may make it difficult for some of our distributors to purchase products. Suppliers – Risks associated with foreign sourcing of raw materials and components, supply interruption, delays in raw material or component delivery or supply shortages may adversely affect our production or profitability. We are sourcing an increasing percentage of our materials and components from suppliers outside the United States, and from suppliers within the United States who engage in foreign sourcing. Long lead times or supply interruptions associated with a global supply base may reduce our flexibility and make it more difficult to respond promptly to fluctuations in demand or respond quickly to product quality problems. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies and fluctuations in the price of commodities may impact the manufacturing costs of our products and affect our profitability. Protective tariffs, unpredictable changes in duty rates, and trade regulation changes may make certain foreign-sourced parts no longer competitively priced. Long supply chains may be disrupted by environmental events. Raw materials such as rare earth metals may become limited in availability from certain regions. Competition – Demand for our products may be affected by new entrants who copy our products and infringe on our intellectual property. From time to time, our Company has been faced with instances where competitors have intentionally infringed our intellectual property and/or taken advantage of our design and development efforts. In some instances, these competitors have launched broad marketing campaigns. If our Company is unable to effectively meet these challenges, they could adversely affect our revenues and profits and hamper our ability to grow. Major Customers – Our Contractor segment depends on a few large customers for a significant portion of its sales. Significant declines in the level of purchases by these customers could reduce our sales and impact segment profitability. Our Contractor segment derives a significant amount of revenue from a few large customers. Substantial decreases in purchases by these customers, difficulty in collecting amounts due or the loss of their business would adversely affect the profitability of this segment. The business of these customers is dependent upon the economic vitality of the construction and home maintenance markets. If these markets decline, the business of our customers could be adversely affected and their purchases of our equipment could decrease. Natural Disasters – Our operations are at risk of damage or destruction by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tornadoes or unusually heavy precipitation. The loss of, or substantial damage to, one of our facilities could make it difficult to supply our customers with product and provide our employees with work. Our manufacturing and distribution facility in Minneapolis is on the banks of the Mississippi River where it is exposed to flooding. Flooding could also damage our European headquarters and warehouse in Maasmechelen, Belgium, our factory in Suzhou, P.R.C., or our Asia Pacific headquarters in Shanghai, P.R.C. Tornadoes could damage or destroy our facilities in Sioux Falls, Rogers, Minneapolis or Anoka and a typhoon could do the same to our facilities in Suzhou or Shanghai. An earthquake may adversely impact our operations in Suzhou, Shanghai, or Yokohama. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 8 Table of Contents 