Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on advertising revenues, which fluctuate as a result of a number of factors and also experience seasonal fluctuations. Our main source of revenue is sales of advertising time and space. Our ability to sell advertising time and space depends on: • the health of the economy in the areas where our stations are located and in the nation as a whole; • the popularity of our programming; • changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located; • pricing fluctuations in local and national advertising; • the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising based mediums, particularly network, cable television, direct satellite television and the Internet; • the outbreak and duration of hostilities or the occurrence of terrorist attacks and the duration and extent of network preemption of regularly scheduled programming and decisions by advertisers to withdraw or delay planned advertising expenditures as a result of military action or terrorist attacks; and • other factors that may be beyond our control. For example, a labor dispute or other disruption at a major national advertiser, programming provider or network, or a recession in a particular market, would make it more difficult to sell advertising time and space and could reduce our revenue. In addition, our results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which typically result in second and fourth quarter broadcast operating income being greater than first and third quarter broadcast operating income. This seasonality is primarily attributable to increased expenditures by advertisers in the spring and in anticipation of holiday season spending and an increase in viewership during this period. 15 Table of Contents Furthermore, revenues from political advertising are significantly higher in even-numbered years, in particular, during presidential elections. Our flexibility is limited by the terms of our senior secured credit facility. Our senior secured credit facility prevents us from taking certain actions and requires us to meet certain tests. These limitations and tests include, without limitation, the following: • limitations on additional indebtedness; • limitations on liens; • limitations on amendments to our by-laws and articles of incorporation; • limitations on mergers and the sale of assets; • limitations on guarantees; • limitations on investments and acquisitions; • limitations on the payment of dividends and the redemption of our capital stock; • maintenance of a specified leverage ratio not to exceed certain maximum limits; • limitations on related party transactions; • limitations on the purchase of real estate; • limitations on entering into multiemployer retirement plans These restrictions and tests may prevent us from taking action that could increase the value of our securities, or may require actions that decrease the value of our securities. In addition, we may fail to meet the tests and thereby default under such senior secured credit facility. If we default on our obligations, creditors could require immediate payment of the obligations or foreclose on collateral. If this occurred, we could be forced to sell assets or take other action that would reduce the value of our securities. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility, or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to service our debt obligations. We may be required to take an impairment charge on our goodwill and FCC licenses, which may have a material effect on the value of our total assets. As of December 31, 2007, the book value of our FCC licenses was $1.1 billion and the book value of our goodwill was $269.1 million in comparison to total assets of $1.6 billion. Not less than annually, we are required to evaluate our goodwill and FCC licenses to determine if the estimated fair value of these intangible assets is less than book value. If the estimated fair value of these intangible assets is less than book value, we will be required to record a non-cash expense to write down the book value of the intangible asset to the estimated fair value. We cannot make any assurances that any required impairment charges will not have a material effect on our total assets. 16 Table of Contents We must purchase television programming in advance but cannot predict if a particular show will be popular enough to cover its cost. One of our most significant costs is television programming. If a particular program is not popular in relation to its costs, we may not be able to sell enough advertising time to cover the costs of the program. Since we purchase programming content from others, we also have little control over the costs of programming. We usually must purchase programming several years in advance, and may have to commit to purchase more than one year’s worth of programming. In addition, we may replace programs that are doing poorly before we have recaptured any significant portion of the costs we incurred, or fully expensed the costs for financial reporting purposes. Any of these factors could reduce our revenues or otherwise cause our costs to escalate relative to revenues. We may lose a large amount of television programming if a network terminates its affiliation with us. Our business depends in large part on the success of our network affiliations. Each of our stations is affiliated with a major network pursuant to an affiliation agreement. Each affiliation agreement provides the affiliated station with the right to broadcast all programs transmitted by the network with which the station is affiliated. Our affiliation agreements expire at various dates through December 31, 2014. If we do not enter into affiliation agreements to replace our expiring agreements, we may no longer be able to carry programming of the relevant network. This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming, which may involve higher costs and which may not be as attractive to our target audiences. Furthermore, our concentration of CBS and/or NBC affiliates makes us sensitive to adverse changes in our business relationship with, and the general success of, CBS and/or NBC. Network compensation is expected to decrease in future periods. Television station revenues are primarily derived from local, regional and national advertising and, to a much lesser extent, from network compensation. Cash payments are provided to us by certain networks in partial exchange for a substantial majority of the advertising time available for sale during the airing of network programs. Our network compensation has declined in recent years and will continue to decline in future years, reflecting an on-going phase-out by the networks of network compensation under our affiliation agreements. Beginning in 2007, network compensation will be less than $1 million per year and is considered immaterial by management. Furthermore, certain of our affiliation agreements with CW and MyNetworkTV require us to make payments to those networks, rather than receiving payments from those networks. While these payments are not currently significant, there can be no assurances that such costs will not increase in the future. Increases in cable and satellite viewership and advertising could result in a decrease in our advertising revenues. Cable-originated programming is a significant competitor for viewers of broadcast television programming. The advertising share of cable networks has increased as a result of the growth in cable/satellite penetration (the percentage of television households which are connected to a cable or satellite system). Increases in the advertising share of cable and satellite networks could result in a decrease in the advertising revenue at our television stations. 17 Table of Contents Competition from other broadcasters and other sources may cause our advertising sales to go down or our costs to go up. Competition in the television industry exists on several levels: competition for audience; competition for programming, including news; and competition for advertisers. Additional factors that are material to a television station’s competitive position include signal coverage and assigned frequency. Audience Stations compete for audience based on program popularity, which has a direct effect on advertising rates. A substantial portion of the daily programming on each of our stations is supplied by the network affiliate. During those periods, the stations are totally dependent upon the performance of the network programs to attract viewers. There can be no assurance that this programming will achieve or maintain satisfactory viewership levels in the future. Non-network time periods are programmed by the station with a combination of self-produced news, public affairs and other entertainment programming, including news and syndicated programs purchased for cash, cash and barter, or barter only, and involve significant costs. In addition, the development of methods of television transmission of video programming other than over-the-air broadcasting and, in particular, cable television have significantly altered competition for audiences in the television industry. These other transmission methods can increase competition for a broadcasting station by bringing into its market distant broadcasting signals not otherwise available to the station’s audience and also by serving as a distribution system for non-broadcasting programming. Technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of programming alternatives, such as home entertainment systems, ‘‘wireless cable’’ services, satellite master antenna television systems, low power television stations, television translator stations, direct broadcast satellite, video distribution services, pay-per-view and the Internet, have fractionalized television viewing audiences and have subjected free over-the-air television broadcast stations to new types of competition. Recent developments by many companies, including internet service providers, are expanding the variety and quality of broadcast content on the Internet. Internet companies have developed business relationships with companies that have traditionally provided syndicated programming, network television, production studios for news and live content, as well as motion picture studios. Programming Competition for programming involves negotiating with national program distributors or syndicators that sell first-run and rerun packages of programming. Each station competes against the broadcast station competitors in its market for exclusive access to off-network reruns, such as Seinfeld, and first-run product, such as Oprah. Cable systems generally do not compete with local stations for programming, although various national cable networks from time to time have acquired programs that would have otherwise been offered to local television stations. Competition exists for exclusive news stories and features as well. Advertising Advertising rates are based upon the size of the market in which the station operates, a station’s overall ratings, a program’s popularity among the viewers that an advertiser wishes to attract, the number of advertisers competing for the available time, the demographic makeup of the market served by the station, the availability of alternative advertising media in the market area, aggressive and knowledgeable sales forces and the development of projects, features and programs that tie advertiser messages to programming. Advertising revenues comprise the primary source of revenues for our stations. Our 18 Table of Contents stations compete for advertising revenues with other television stations in their respective markets. The stations also compete for advertising revenues with other media, such as newspapers, radio stations, magazines, outdoor advertising, transit advertising, yellow page directories, direct mail, Internet and local cable systems. Competition for advertising dollars in the broadcasting industry occurs primarily within individual markets. Materiality of a single advertising category could adversely affect our business. We derive a material portion of our ad revenue from the automotive and restaurant industries. For example, approximately 25% and 11% of total revenue was earned from the automotive and restaurant categories in 2007, respectively and 23% and 10% was earned from these same industries in 2006, respectively. If automotive or restaurant related advertising revenues decrease, or if revenue from another category that constitutes a material portion of our stations’ revenue in a particular period were to decrease, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The phased-in introduction of digital television will continue to require us to incur capital and operating costs and may expose us to increased competition. The conversion from analog to digital television services in the United States by February 2009 may have the following effects on us: Capital and operating costs We are incurring costs to replace equipment in our stations in order to provide digital television. Even with the flexible operating requirements, some of our stations will also incur increased utilities costs as a result of converting to digital operations. We cannot be certain we will be able to increase revenues to offset these additional costs. Conversion and programming costs In addition to incurring costs to convert our stations from the current analog format to digital format, we also may incur additional costs to obtain programming for the additional channels made available by digital technology. Increased revenues from the additional channels may not make up for the conversion costs and additional programming expenses. Also, multiple channels programmed by other stations could increase competition in our markets. Our inability to integrate acquisitions successfully would adversely affect us. We have acquired 33 television stations since January 1, 1994 and in the future we may make additional acquisitions. In order to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire we will need to coordinate the management and administrative functions and sales, marketing and development efforts of each company. Combining companies presents a number of challenges, including integrating the management of companies that may have different approaches to sales and service, and the integration of a number of geographically separated facilities. In addition, integrating acquisitions requires substantial management time and attention and may distract management from our day-to-day business. If we cannot successfully integrate the businesses we have acquired and any future acquisitions, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Any potential hostilities or terrorist attacks may affect our revenues and results of operations. We expect that if the United States engages in additional foreign hostilities or there is a terrorist attack against the United States, we may lose advertising revenue and incur increased broadcasting expenses due to pre-emption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns and the increased costs of providing coverage of such events. We cannot predict the extent and duration of any future disruption to our programming schedule, the amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed or the amount by which our broadcasting expenses would increase as a result. Any such loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our future results of operations. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Federal regulation of the broadcasting industry limits our operating flexibility. The FCC regulates our business, just as it does all other companies in the broadcasting industry. We must request and obtain FCC approval whenever we need a new license, seek to renew or assign a license, purchase a new station or transfer the control of one of our subsidiaries that holds a license. Our FCC licenses are critical to our operations; we cannot operate without them. We cannot be certain that the FCC will renew these licenses in the future or approve new acquisitions. Federal legislation and FCC rules have changed significantly in recent years and can be expected to continue to change. These changes may limit our ability to conduct our business in ways that we believe would be advantageous and may therefore affect our operating results. The FCC’s duopoly restrictions limit our ability to own and operate multiple television stations in the same market and our ability to own and operate a television station and newspaper in the same market. The FCC’s ownership rules generally prohibit us from owning or having ‘‘attributable interests’’ in television stations located in the same markets in which our stations are licensed. Accordingly, our ability to expand through acquisitions of additional stations in markets where we presently are operating is constrained by those rules. Under current FCC cross-ownership rules, we also are not allowed to own and operate a television station and a newspaper in the same market. The FCC’s National Television Station Ownership Rule limits the maximum number of households we can reach. The maximum percentage (or “cap”) of U.S. households that a single owner can reach through commonly owned television stations is 39 percent. Accordingly, our ability to expand through acquisitions of additional stations is constrained by those rules. Federal legislation and FCC rules have changed significantly in recent years and can be expected to continue to change. These changes may limit our ability to conduct our business in ways that we believe would be advantageous and may therefore affect our operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 20 Table of Contents 