Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on advertising revenues, which fluctuate as a result of a number of factors and also experience seasonal fluctuations. Our main source of revenue is sales of advertising time and space. Our ability to sell advertising time and space depends on: • the health of the economy in the areas where our stations are located and in the nation as a whole such as the national economic recession which began in 2008 and is continuing as of the date of this filing; • the popularity of our programming; • changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located; • pricing fluctuations in local and national advertising which can be impacted by the availability of programming, the popularity of that programming, the relative supply of and demand for commercial advertising and general national or local economic conditions; 15 Table of Contents • the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising based mediums, particularly network, cable television, direct satellite television and the Internet; • the outbreak and duration of hostilities or the occurrence of terrorist attacks and the duration and extent of network preemption of regularly scheduled programming and decisions by advertisers to withdraw or delay planned advertising expenditures as a result of military action or terrorist attacks; and • other factors that may be beyond our control. For example, a labor dispute or other disruption at a major national advertiser, programming provider or network, or a recession nationally and/or in a particular market, would make it more difficult to sell advertising time and space and could reduce our revenue. In addition, our results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which typically result in second and fourth quarter broadcast operating income being greater than first and third quarter broadcast operating income. This seasonality is primarily attributable to increased expenditures by advertisers in the spring and in anticipation of holiday season spending and an increase in viewership during this period. Furthermore, revenues from political advertising are significantly higher in even-numbered years, in particular, during presidential elections. Our operating and financial flexibility is limited by the terms of our senior secured credit facility. Our senior secured credit facility prevents us from taking certain actions and requires us to meet certain tests. These limitations and tests include, without limitation, the following: • limitations on additional indebtedness; • limitations on liens; • limitations on amendments to our by-laws and articles of incorporation; • limitations on mergers and the sale of assets; • limitations on guarantees; • limitations on investments and acquisitions; • limitations on the payment of dividends and the redemption of our capital stock; • maintenance of a specified leverage ratio not to exceed certain maximum limits; • limitations on related party transactions; • limitations on the purchase of real estate; • limitations on entering into multiemployer retirement plans These restrictions and tests may prevent us from taking action that could increase the value of our business or securities, or may require actions that decrease the value of our business or securities. In addition, we may fail to meet the tests and thereby default under such senior secured credit facility. If we default on our obligations, creditors could require immediate payment of the obligations or foreclose on collateral. If this occurred, we could be forced to sell assets or take other action that would reduce the value of our business or securities. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior 16 Table of Contents secured credit facility, or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to service our debt obligations. Our operating and financial flexibility is limited by the terms of our Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock. Our Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock prevents us from taking certain actions and requires us to meet certain tests. These limitations and tests include, without limitation, the following: • limitations on additional indebtedness; • limitations on liens; • limitations on amendments to our by-laws and articles of incorporation; • limitations on our ability to issue equity securities having liquidation preferences senior or equivalent to the liquidation preferences of the Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock; • limitations on mergers and the sale of assets; • limitations on guarantees; • limitations on investments and acquisitions; • limitations on the payment of dividends and the redemption of our capital stock; • limitations on related party transactions; These restrictions may prevent us from taking action that could increase the value of our business or securities, or may require actions that decrease the value of our business or securities. We have suspended cash dividends on both classes of our common stock and have not paid certain accumulated dividends under our Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock. Our Board of Directors did not declare a dividend, in cash or in stock, for our common stock or Class A common stock for the fourth quarter of 2008 and we can provide no assurances when or if any future dividends will be declared on either class of common stock. We did not fund the Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock cash dividend payment due on January 15, 2009 that had accumulated for the fourth quarter of 2008. If three consecutive cash dividends payments with respect to the Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock remain unfunded the dividend rate will increase from 15% per annum to 17% per annum. While any Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock dividend payments are in arrears, we are prohibited from repurchasing, declaring and/or paying any cash dividend with respect to any equity securities having liquidation preferences equivalent to or junior in ranking to the liquidation preferences of the Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock including our common stock and Class A common stock. We can provide no assurances when any future cash payments will be made on any accumulated and unpaid Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock cash dividends presently in arrears or that become in arrears in the future. We may not be able to maintain our common stock listings on the NYSE for our common stock and/or Class A common stock. On November 4, 2008, the NYSE notified us that we did not satisfy one of the NYSE’s standards for continued listing applicable to our common stock. The NYSE noted specifically that we were “below 17 Table of Contents criteria” for the NYSE’s price criteria for our common stock because the average closing price per share, over a consecutive 30 trading-day period, was less than $1.00 per share as of November 3, 2008. Under NYSE policy, in order to cure the deficiency for this continued listing standard, our common stock share price and the average share price over a consecutive 30 trading-day period must both exceed $1.00 by May 4, 2009 which is six months following receipt of the non-compliance notice. We can give no assurances that we will be able to cure this listing standard deficiency in the time allowed. In addition, the NYSE has other listing standards that may apply to us including a standard that requires us to have a minimum market capitalization of at least $25 million over a 30 trading-day period. On January 22, 2009, the NYSE temporarily reduced the minimum required market capitalization to $15 million but this lower threshold is only effective to April 22, 2009 on which date the minimum market capitalization will again be $25 million. Failure to comply with this particular listing standard allows the NYSE to promptly delist a company from the exchange. As of February 26, 2009, our market capitalization over the past consecutive 30 trading-day period is $24.0 million. We can give no assurances that our market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period will be sufficient to comply with the NYSE’s listing standard then in effect. On February 26, 2009, the NYSE submitted to the SEC an immediately effective rule filing which suspends the NYSE’s $1 minimum price requirement on a temporary basis, initially through June 30, 2009. Further, the filing also extends until the same date the NYSE’s current easing of the average global market capitalization standard from $25 million to $15 million. While the filing is immediately effective, it is subject to a 30-day operative delay. The NYSE has asked the SEC to waive this operative delay and expects the SEC to do so promptly. If either class of our common stock cannot meet the applicable NYSE listing standards then both classes of our common stock will be delisted by the exchange. If our common stock and Class A common stock were to be delisted from the NYSE, we would be required to seek another national exchange or alternative over-the-counter trading forum to provide for the trading of both classes of our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the liquidity, market pricing or investor interest in either class of our common stock if we were to be unable to maintain our listing status on the NYSE. We may be required to take further impairment charges on our goodwill and/or broadcast licenses, which may have a material effect on the value of our total assets. For the year ended December 31, 2008 we recorded a non-cash impairment charge to our broadcast licenses of $240.1 million and a non-cash impairment charge to our goodwill of $98.6 million. As of December 31, 2008, the book value of our FCC licenses was $819.0 million and the book value of our goodwill was $170.5 million in comparison to total assets of $1.3 billion. Not less than annually, and more frequently if necessary, we are required to evaluate our goodwill and FCC licenses to determine if the estimated fair value of these intangible assets is less than book value. If the estimated fair value of these intangible assets is less than book value, we will be required to record a non-cash expense to write down the book value of the intangible asset to the estimated fair value. We cannot make any assurances that any required impairment charges will not have a material effect on our total assets. 18 Table of Contents We must purchase television programming in advance but cannot predict if a particular show will be popular enough to cover its cost. One of our most significant costs is television programming. If a particular program is not popular in relation to its costs, we may not be able to sell enough advertising time to cover the costs of the program. Since we purchase programming content from others, we also have little control over the costs of programming. We usually must purchase programming several years in advance, and may have to commit to purchase more than one year’s worth of programming. In addition, we may replace programs that are doing poorly before we have recaptured any significant portion of the costs we incurred, or fully expensed the costs for financial reporting purposes. Any of these factors could reduce our revenues or otherwise cause our costs to escalate relative to revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a television program impairment expense of $601,400. We may lose a large amount of television programming if a network terminates its affiliation with us, significantly changes the economic terms and conditions of any future affiliation agreements or significantly changes the type, quality or quantity of programming provided to us under an affiliation agreement. Our business depends in large part on the success of our network affiliations. Each of our stations is affiliated with a major network pursuant to an affiliation agreement. Each affiliation agreement provides the affiliated station with the right to broadcast all programs transmitted by the network with which the station is affiliated. Our affiliation agreements expire at various dates through January 1, 2016. If we do not enter into affiliation agreements to replace our expiring agreements, we may no longer be able to carry programming of the relevant network. This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming, which may involve higher costs and which may not be as attractive to our target audiences thereby reducing our ability to generate advertising revenue. Furthermore, our concentration of CBS and/or NBC affiliates makes us sensitive to adverse changes in our business relationship with, and the general success of, CBS and/or NBC. We can give no assurances that any future affiliation agreements will be obtainable on economic terms and/or other conditions that will be favorable to us. We can also give no assurances that any network(s) could not change the type, quality or quantity of programming provided to us in a way that could be detrimental to our operations. Increases in cable and satellite viewership and advertising could result in a decrease in our advertising revenues. Cable-originated programming is a significant competitor for viewers of broadcast television programming. The advertising share of cable networks has increased as a result of the growth in cable/satellite penetration (the percentage of television households which are connected to a cable or satellite system). Increases in the advertising share of cable and satellite networks could result in a decrease in the advertising revenue at our television stations. Competition from other broadcasters and other sources may cause our advertising sales to go down or our costs to go up. Competition in the television industry exists on several levels: competition for audience; competition for programming, including news; and competition for advertisers. Additional factors that are material to a television station’s competitive position include signal coverage and assigned frequency. 19 Table of Contents Audience Stations compete for audience based on program popularity, which has a direct effect on advertising rates. A substantial portion of the daily programming on each of our stations is supplied by the network affiliate. During those periods, the stations are totally dependent upon the performance of the network programs to attract viewers. There can be no assurance that this programming will achieve or maintain satisfactory viewership levels in the future. Non-network time periods are programmed by the station with a combination of self-produced news, public affairs and other entertainment programming, including news and syndicated programs purchased for cash, cash and barter, or barter only, and involve significant costs. In addition, the development of methods of television transmission of video programming other than over-the-air broadcasting and, in particular, cable television have significantly altered competition for audiences in the television industry. These other transmission methods can increase competition for a broadcasting station by bringing into its market distant broadcasting signals not otherwise available to the station’s audience and also by serving as a distribution system for non-broadcasting programming. Technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of programming alternatives, such as home entertainment systems, ‘‘wireless cable’’ services, satellite master antenna television systems, low power television stations, television translator stations, direct broadcast satellite, video distribution services, pay-per-view and the Internet, have fractionalized television viewing audiences and have subjected free over-the-air television broadcast stations to new types of competition. Recent developments by many companies, including internet service providers, are expanding the variety and quality of broadcast and other video content on the Internet. Internet companies have developed business relationships with companies that have traditionally provided syndicated programming, network television, production studios for news and live content, as well as motion picture studios. Programming Competition for programming involves negotiating with national program distributors or syndicators that sell first-run and rerun packages of programming. Each station competes against the broadcast station competitors in its market for exclusive access to off-network reruns, such as Seinfeld, and first-run product, such as Oprah. Cable systems generally do not compete with local stations for programming, although various national cable networks from time to time have acquired programs that would have otherwise been offered to local television stations. Competition exists for exclusive news stories and features as well. Advertising Advertising rates are based upon the size of the market in which the station operates, a station’s overall ratings, a program’s popularity among the viewers that an advertiser wishes to attract, the number of advertisers competing for the available time, the demographic makeup of the market served by the station, the availability of alternative advertising media in the market area, aggressive and knowledgeable sales forces and the development of projects, features and programs that tie advertiser messages to programming. Advertising revenues comprise the primary source of revenues for our stations. Our stations compete for advertising revenues with other television stations in their respective markets. The stations also compete for advertising revenues with other media, such as newspapers, radio stations, magazines, outdoor advertising, transit advertising, yellow page directories, direct mail, Internet and local cable systems. Competition for advertising dollars in the broadcasting industry occurs primarily within individual markets. 20 Table of Contents Materiality of a single advertising category could adversely affect our business. We derive a material portion of our ad revenue from the automotive and restaurant industries. For example, approximately 19% and 10% of total revenue was earned from the automotive and restaurant categories in 2008, respectively, and 25% and 11% was earned from these same industries in 2007, respectively. If automotive or restaurant related advertising revenues decrease, or if revenue from one or more other significant advertising categories, such as the communications, entertainment, financial services, professional services or retail industries, that constitutes a significant portion of our stations’ revenue in a particular period were to decrease, our business and operating results could be adversely affected as was the case during 2008 and which currently appears to be continuing into 2009 due to the general national economic recession. The phased-in introduction of digital television will continue to require us to incur capital and operating costs and may expose us to increased competition. The conversion from analog to digital television services in the United States by June 12, 2009 may have the following effects on us: Capital and operating costs We are incurring costs to replace equipment in our stations in order to provide digital television. Even with the flexible operating requirements, some of our stations will also incur increased utilities costs as a result of converting to digital operations. We cannot be certain we will be able to increase revenues to offset these additional costs. Conversion and programming costs In addition to incurring costs to convert our stations from the current analog format to digital format, we also may incur additional costs to obtain programming for the additional channels made available by digital technology. Increased revenues from the additional channels may not make up for the conversion costs and additional programming expenses. Also, multiple channels programmed by other stations could increase competition in our markets. Our inability to integrate acquisitions successfully would adversely affect us. We have acquired 33 television stations since January 1, 1994 and in the future we may make additional acquisitions. In order to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire we will need to coordinate the management and administrative functions and sales, marketing and development efforts of each company. Combining companies presents a number of challenges, including integrating the management of companies that may have different approaches to sales and service, and the integration of a number of geographically separated facilities. In addition, integrating acquisitions requires substantial management time and attention and may distract management from our day-to-day business. If we cannot successfully integrate the businesses we have acquired and any future acquisitions, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any potential hostilities or terrorist attacks may affect our revenues and results of operations. We expect that if the United States engages in additional foreign hostilities or there is a terrorist attack against the United States, we may lose advertising revenue and incur increased broadcasting expenses due to pre-emption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns and the increased costs of providing coverage of such events. We cannot predict the extent and duration of any future disruption to 21 Table of Contents our programming schedule, the amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed or the amount by which our broadcasting expenses would increase as a result. Any such loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our future results of operations. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Federal regulation of the broadcasting industry limits our operating flexibility. The FCC regulates our business, just as it does all other companies in the broadcasting industry. We must request and obtain FCC approval whenever we need a new license, seek to renew or assign a license, purchase a new station or transfer the control of one of our subsidiaries that holds a license. Our FCC licenses are critical to our operations; we cannot operate without them. We cannot be certain that the FCC will renew these licenses in the future or approve new acquisitions. Federal legislation and FCC rules have changed significantly in recent years and can be expected to continue to change. These changes may limit our ability to conduct our business in ways that we believe would be advantageous and may therefore affect our operating results. The FCC’s duopoly restrictions limit our ability to own and operate multiple television stations in the same market and our ability to own and operate a television station and newspaper in the same market. The FCC’s ownership rules generally prohibit us from owning or having ‘‘attributable interests’’ in television stations located in the same markets in which our stations are licensed. Accordingly, our ability to expand through acquisitions of additional stations in markets where we presently are operating is constrained by those rules. Under current FCC cross-ownership rules, we also are not allowed to own and operate a television station and a newspaper in the same market. The FCC’s National Television Station Ownership Rule limits the maximum number of households we can reach. The maximum percentage, or cap, of U.S. households that a single owner can reach through commonly owned television stations is 39 percent. Accordingly, our ability to expand through acquisitions of additional stations is constrained by those rules. Federal legislation and FCC rules have changed significantly in recent years and can be expected to continue to change. These changes may limit our ability to conduct our business in ways that we believe would be advantageous and may therefore affect our operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 22 Table of Contents 