Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained and referred to in this report, you should consider carefully the following factors when evaluating our business. Any of these risks, or the occurrence of any of the events described in these risk factors, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently do not deem material could arise, any of which could also materially adversely affect us. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the occurrence of one or more of the following risk factors. We have substantial debt and have the ability to incur significant additional debt. The principal and interest payment obligations on such debt may restrict our future operations and impair our ability to meet our long-term debt obligations. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $842.9 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness (excluding intercompany indebtedness). We have the ability to incur significant additional debt, including secured debt, under our senior credit facility (the “2012 Senior Credit Facility”). In addition, the terms of the indenture governing our outstanding 7½% Senior Notes due 2020 (the “2020 Notes”) (as supplemented, the “indenture”) also permit us to incur additional indebtedness, subject to our ability to meet certain borrowing conditions. Our substantial debt may have important consequences. For instance, it could: ● require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our debt, which would reduce funds available for other business purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; ● place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors that may have less debt and better access to capital resources; ● limit our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund acquisitions, working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes; and ● make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations. 18 Our ability to service our significant financial obligations depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow. This is partially subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, that future borrowings will be available to us under the 2012 Senior Credit Facility or any other credit facilities, or that we will be able to complete any necessary financings, in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our operations or pay our debts and other obligations, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available in sufficient amounts, at times or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Specifically, volatility in the capital markets may also impact our ability to obtain additional financing, or to refinance our existing debt, on terms or at times favorable to us. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to service our debt or other obligations, which could result in us being in default thereon, in which circumstances our lenders could cease making loans to us, and lenders or other holders of our debt could accelerate and declare due all outstanding obligations due under the respective agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The agreements governing our various debt obligations impose restrictions on our operations and limit our ability to undertake certain corporate actions. The agreements governing our various debt obligations, including the indenture and the agreements governing the 2012 Senior Credit Facility, include covenants imposing significant restrictions on our operations. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things: ● incur additional debt, subject to certain limitations; ● declare or pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions to stockholders; ● make investments or acquisitions; ● create liens or use assets as security in other transactions; ● issue guarantees; ● merge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease or dispose of substantially all of our assets; ● amend our articles of incorporation or bylaws; ● engage in transactions with affiliates; and ● purchase, sell or transfer certain assets. Any of these restrictions and limitations could make it more difficult for us to execute our business strategy. 19 The indenture and the 2012 Senior Credit Facility also require us to comply with a number of financial ratios and covenants; our failure to do so would result in a default thereunder, which would have a material adverse effect on us. We are also required to comply with a number of financial covenants under the indenture and the 2012 Senior Credit Facility. Our ability to comply with these requirements may be affected by events affecting our business, but beyond our control, including prevailing general economic, financial and industry conditions. These covenants could have an adverse effect on us by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the indenture or the 2012 Senior Credit Facility. Upon a default under any of our debt agreements, the lenders or debt holders thereunder could have the right to declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable, which could, in turn, trigger defaults under other debt obligations and could result in the termination of commitments of the lenders to make further extensions of credit under the 2012 Senior Credit Facility. If we were unable to repay our secured debt to our lenders, or were otherwise in default under any provision governing our outstanding secured debt obligations, our secured lenders could proceed against us and the subsidiary guarantors and against the collateral securing that debt. Any default resulting in an acceleration of outstanding indebtedness, a termination of commitments under our financing arrangements or lenders proceeding against the collateral securing such indebtedness would likely result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under the 2012 Senior Credit Facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) were to exceed certain levels, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available to service our obligations would decrease. The success of our business is dependent upon advertising revenues, which are seasonal and cyclical, and will also fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our main source of revenue is the sale of advertising time and space. Our ability to sell advertising time and space depends on, among other things: ● economic conditions in the areas where our stations are located and in the nation as a whole; ● the popularity of the programming offered by our television stations; ● changes in the population demographics in the areas where our stations are located; ● local and national advertising price fluctuations, which can be affected by the availability of programming, the popularity of programming, and the relative supply of and demand for commercial advertising; ● our competitors’ activities, including increased competition from other advertising-based mediums, particularly cable networks, MVPDs and the internet; 20 ● the duration and extent of any network preemption of regularly scheduled programming for any reason; ● decisions by advertisers to withdraw or delay planned advertising expenditures for any reason; ● labor disputes or other disruptions at major national advertisers, programming providers or networks; and ● other factors beyond our control. Our results are also subject to seasonal and cyclical fluctuations that we expect to continue. Seasonal fluctuations typically result in higher revenue and broadcast operating income in the second and fourth quarters than in the first and third quarters of each year. This seasonality is primarily attributable to (i) advertisers’ increased expenditures in the spring and in anticipation of holiday season spending and (ii) an increase in television viewership during this period. In addition, we typically experience fluctuations in our revenue and broadcast operating income between even and odd numbered years. In years in which there are impending elections for various state and national offices, which primarily occur in even numbered years, political advertising revenue tends to increase, often significantly, and particularly during presidential election years. Also, our NBC network affiliated stations typically experience increased viewership and revenue during coverage of Olympic Games, which also occur in even numbered years. As a result of the seasonality and cyclicality of our revenue and broadcast operating income, and the historically significant increase in our revenue and broadcast operating income during even-numbered years, potential investors are cautioned that it has been, and is expected to remain, difficult to engage in period-over-period comparisons of our revenue and results of operations. Continued uncertain financial and economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Financial and economic conditions continue to be uncertain over the longer term and the continuation or worsening of such conditions could reduce consumer confidence and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. If consumer confidence were to decline, this decline could negatively affect our advertising customers’ businesses and their advertising budgets. In addition, continued volatile economic conditions could have a negative impact on our industry or the industries of our customers who advertise on our stations, resulting in reduced advertising sales. Furthermore, it may be possible that actions taken by any governmental or regulatory body for the purpose of stabilizing the economy or financial markets will not achieve their intended effect. In addition to any negative direct consequences to our business or results of operations arising from these financial and economic developments, some of these actions may adversely affect financial institutions, capital providers, advertisers or other consumers on whom we rely, including for access to future capital or financing arrangements necessary to support our business. Our inability to obtain financing in amounts and at times necessary could make it more difficult or impossible to meet our obligations or otherwise take actions in our best interests. Our dependence upon a limited number of advertising categories could adversely affect our business. We consider broadcast advertising revenue to be revenue earned from the sale of advertisements broadcast by our stations. Although no single customer represented more than 5% of our broadcast advertising revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013 or 2012, we derived a material portion of our non-political broadcast advertising revenue from advertisers in a limited number of industries, particularly the automotive industry. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we derived approximately 25% and 18%, respectively, of our total broadcast advertising revenue from our advertisers in the automotive industry. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if broadcast advertising revenue from the automotive, or certain other industries, such as the medical, restaurant, communications, or furniture and appliances, industries, declined. 21 We consider political broadcast advertising revenue to be revenue earned from the sale to political candidates, political parties and special interest groups of advertisements broadcast by our stations. In even numbered years, we derive a material portion of our broadcast advertising revenue from political broadcast advertisers. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we derived approximately 1% and 21%, respectively, of our total revenue from political broadcast advertisers. If political broadcast advertising revenue declined, especially in an even numbered year, our results of operations and financial condition could also be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to complete the Hoak Acquisition, we could be liable to Hoak for breach of contract, and our stock price could suffer. On November 20, 2013, the Company entered into a series of transactions pursuant to which Gray and Excalibur will acquire ownership or operating rights to 15 network-affiliated television stations, including satellite stations, in seven markets (after giving effect to stations required to be divested due to regulatory requirements) from Hoak Media LLC and Parker Broadcasting, Inc. (the “Hoak Acquisition”). Consummation of the Hoak Acquisition is subject to various customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval from the FCC. The Hoak Acquisition is expected to close in the first half of 2014, although no assurances can be provided that we will be able to consummate the Hoak Acquisition on the expected timeline, or at all. If the Hoak Acquisition is not completed, we could be liable to Hoak for breach of contract, and the market price of our stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Hoak Acquisition will be completed. In addition, we have incurred and will incur substantial transaction costs and expenses in connection with the Hoak Acquisition. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of attorneys, accountants and our financial advisors. Further, we have diverted significant management resources in an effort to complete the Hoak Acquisition. If the Hoak Acquisition is not completed, we will have incurred significant costs, including the diversion of management resources, for which we will have received little or no benefit. Additionally, if the Hoak Acquisition is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and our advertisers, stockholders and employees. Each of these factors may also adversely affect the trading price of our stock and our financial results and operations. If we are unable to finance the Hoak Acquisition, we may not be able to complete the acquisition. We expect to fund the purchase price to complete the Hoak Acquisition through a combination of cash on hand and funds from one or more external financing sources, which could include senior credit facility financing or proceeds from the issuance of other debt or equity securities. We currently have no commitments from any financing source relating to the financing of the Hoak Acquisition. In the event we are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all, we may not be able to complete the Hoak Acquisition. In such event, Hoak could pursue an action against us to compel us to complete the acquisition or for damages, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we fund the Hoak Acquisition through the issuance of new equity securities, these newly issued shares could substantially dilute the ownership interests of outstanding stockholders. 22 We could incur substantial additional long-term indebtedness in connection with the Hoak Acquisition, which would increase the risks we now face with our current indebtedness. We may finance the Hoak Acquisition with senior credit facility borrowing or the issuance of other debt. As a result, we may have long-term indebtedness that will be substantially greater than our long-term indebtedness prior to the Hoak Acquisition. This additional indebtedness would increase the related risks we now face with our current indebtedness described above. We may not realize the expected benefits of the Hoak Acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. The success of the Hoak Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies and cost savings from integrating Hoak’s business with our existing business. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating the operation of Hoak’s business could include, among others: ● failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; ● unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; ● unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations, including FCC rules; ● the impact on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and ● other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may not accomplish the integration of Hoak’s business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or time frame. The diversion of the attention of management from our current operations to the integration effort and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the Hoak Acquisition and could adversely affect our business. We seek to selectively evaluate growth opportunities through strategic acquisitions, and there are significant risks associated with an acquisition strategy. We intend to continue to evaluate opportunities for growth through selective acquisitions of television stations or station groups. There can be no assurances that we will be able to identify any suitable acquisition candidates, and we cannot predict whether we will be successful in pursuing or completing any acquisitions, or what the consequences of not completing any acquisitions would be. Consummation of any proposed acquisition at any time may also be subject to various conditions such as compliance with FCC rules and policies. Consummation of acquisitions may also be subject to antitrust regulatory requirements. An acquisition strategy involves numerous other risks, which may include risks associated with: ● identifying suitable acquisition candidates and negotiating definitive purchase agreements on satisfactory terms; ● integrating operations and systems and managing a large and geographically diverse group of stations; 23 ● obtaining financing to complete acquisitions, which financing may not be available to us at times, in amounts, or at rates acceptable to us, if at all, and potentially the related risks associated with increased debt; ● diverting our management’s attention from other business concerns; ● potentially losing key employees at acquired stations; and ● potential changes in the regulatory approval process that may make it materially more expensive, or materially delay our ability, to consummate any proposed acquisitions. Our failure to identify acquisition candidates, or to complete or integrate any acquired business, or to obtain the expected benefits therefrom, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company with no independent assets or operations and we depend on our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company with no independent assets or operations, other than our investments in our subsidiaries. Because we are a holding company, we are dependent upon the payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. These payments could be or become subject to dividend or other restrictions under applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. Payments by our subsidiaries are also contingent upon the subsidiaries’ earnings. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our financial condition and ability to meet our obligations may be adversely affected. We must purchase television programming in advance of knowing whether a particular show will be popular enough for us to recoup our costs. One of our most significant costs is for the purchase of television programming. If a particular program is not sufficiently popular among audiences in relation to the cost we pay for such program, we may not be able to sell enough related advertising time for us to recoup the costs we pay to broadcast the program. We also must usually purchase programming several years in advance, and we may have to commit to purchase more than one year’s worth of programming, resulting in the incurrence of significant costs in advance of our receipt of any related revenue. We may also replace programs that are performing poorly before we have recaptured any significant portion of the costs we incurred in obtaining such programming or fully expensed the costs for financial reporting purposes. Any of these factors could reduce our revenues, result in the incurrence of impairment charges or otherwise cause our costs to escalate relative to revenues. We are highly dependent upon our network affiliations, and we may lose a large amount of television programming if a network (i) terminates its affiliation with us, (ii) significantly changes the economic terms and conditions of any future affiliation agreements with us or (iii) significantly changes the type, quality or quantity of programming provided to us under an affiliation agreement. Our business depends in large part on the success of our network affiliations. Each of our stations is affiliated with at least one major network pursuant to affiliation agreements. Each affiliation agreement provides the affiliated station with the right to broadcast all programs transmitted by the affiliated network during the term of the related agreement. Our affiliation agreements generally expire at various dates through December 31, 2018. 24 If we cannot enter into affiliation agreements to replace any expiring agreements, we would no longer be able to carry the affiliated network’s programming. This loss of programming would require us to seek to obtain replacement programming. Such replacement programming may involve higher costs and may not be as attractive to our target audiences, thereby reducing our ability to generate advertising revenue. Furthermore, our concentration of CBS and/or NBC affiliates makes us particularly sensitive to adverse changes in our business relationship with, and the general success of, CBS and/or NBC. We can give no assurance that any future affiliation agreements will have economic terms or conditions equivalent to or more advantageous to us than our current agreements. If in the future a network or networks imposed more adverse economic terms upon us, such event or events could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to renew or replace any existing affiliation agreements, we may be unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing or any future retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs and/or secure payment of retransmission consent fees under such agreements. Furthermore, if in the future a network limited or removed our ability to retransmit network programming to MVPDs, we may be unable to satisfy certain obligations or criteria for fees under any existing or any future retransmission consent agreements. In either case, such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are also dependent upon our retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs, and we cannot predict the outcome of potential regulatory changes to the retransmission consent regime. We are also dependent, in significant part, on our retransmission consent agreements. Our current retransmission consent agreements are set to expire at various times through December 2017. No assurances can be provided that we will be able to renegotiate all of such agreements on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. The failure to renegotiate such agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our ability to successfully negotiate future retransmission consent agreements may be hindered by potential legislative or regulatory charges to the framework under which these agreements are negotiated. For example, in March 2011, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (the “2011 NPRM”) to consider changes to its rules governing the negotiation of retransmission consent agreements. The FCC concluded that it lacked statutory authority to impose mandatory arbitration or interim carriage obligations in the event of a dispute between broadcasters and pay television operators. The FCC, however, sought comment on whether it should (1) strengthen the existing regulatory provision requiring broadcasters and MVPDs to negotiate retransmission consent in “good faith,” (2) enhance notice obligations to consumers of potential disruptions in service, and/or (3) extend the prohibition on ceasing carriage of a broadcast station’s signal during an audience measurement period to DBS systems. The 2011 NPRM also questioned whether the FCC should eliminate the network non-duplication and syndicated exclusivity rules. The FCC has not yet issued a decision in this proceeding, and we cannot predict the outcome of any FCC regulatory action in this regard. In addition, certain online video distributors and other OVDs have begun to stream broadcast programming over the Internet without the consent of the broadcast station. In one case relating to that issue, a federal district court issued a preliminary injunction enjoining an OVD from streaming broadcast programming because the court concluded that the OVD was unlikely to demonstrate that it was eligible for the statutory copyright license that provides cable operators with the requisite copyrights to retransmit broadcast programming, and in August 2012, the Second Circuit affirmed the district court’s decision. In another case, a preliminary injunction against an entity providing access to broadcast programming over the Internet was denied. In that case, the federal district court for the Southern District of New York concluded that the operator was likely to prevail in demonstrating that the leasing of antennas and other equipment that enables a consumer to access broadcast programming over the Internet is not a copyright violation. That ruling has been sustained by the Second Circuit and the case has been returned to the district court for trial. In a case against another entity presenting similar facts, the federal district court for the Central District of California, rejecting the rationale of the New York district court, enjoined operations, finding that the transmissions were copyright infringements. That decision has been appealed to the Ninth Circuit. In September 2013, a district court in Washington D.C. reached a similar decision as the California district court in a separate lawsuit against the same OVD, finding that broadcast networks have a protectable copyright that appears to be violated by the internet distribution. That court imposed a nationwide injunction (exempting the Second Circuit) against that OVD. In October 2013, broadcasters in Salt Lake City, Utah, filed suit against the same OVD challenging the legality of the OVD’s service. Also in October 2013, the district court in Massachusetts denied another broadcaster’s request for an injunction against the OVD. On October 11, 2013, the four major networks filed a petition with the U.S. Supreme Court seeking review of the Second Circuit’s decision upholding the denial of their request for an injunction against that OVD. In January 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to consider this appeal. In 2010, the FCC’s Media 25 Bureau, in a program access proceeding, tentatively concluded that one OVD had not shown that it was an MVPD for purposes of demonstrating eligibility for the program access rules, and in March 2012, the FCC, recognizing that the classification could also have implications under the retransmission consent requirements, issued a public notice seeking comment on, among other things, the proper interpretation of the term “MVPD” under FCC rules. We cannot predict the outcome of the pending litigation or of the FCC’s interpretive proceedings. However, if the courts determine that consent of the broadcast station or copyright owners is not required and if the FCC determines that an OVD is not an MVPD, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Competition occurs on multiple levels (for audiences, programming and advertisers) and is based on a variety of factors. If we are not able to successfully compete in all relevant aspects, our revenues will be materially adversely affected. Television stations compete for audiences, certain programming (including news) and advertisers. Signal coverage and carriage on MVPD systems also materially affect a television station’s competitive position. With respect to audiences, stations compete primarily based on broadcast program popularity. We cannot provide any assurances as to the acceptability by audiences of any of the programs we broadcast. Further, because we compete with other broadcast stations for certain programming, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain any desired programming at costs that we believe are reasonable. Cable-network programming combined with increased access to cable and satellite TV, has become a significant competitor for broadcast television programming viewers. Cable networks’ viewership and advertising share have increased due to the growth in MVPD penetration (the percentage of television households that are connected to a MVPD system) and increased investments in programming by cable networks. Further increases in the advertising share of cable networks could materially adversely affect the advertising revenue of our television stations. In addition, technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of programming alternatives, such as internet websites, mobile apps and wireless carriers, direct-to-consumer video distribution systems, and home entertainment systems have further fractionalized television viewing audiences and resulted in additional challenges to revenue generation. Our inability or failure to broadcast popular programs, or otherwise maintain viewership for any reason, including as a result of increases in programming alternatives, could result in a lack of advertisers, or a reduction in the amount advertisers are willing to pay us to advertise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Our pension plan obligations are currently underfunded, and, if certain factors worsen, we may have to make significant cash payments to some or all of these plans, which could reduce the cash available for our business. We have underfunded obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. The funded status of our pension plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets, the level of certain market interest rates and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. Unfavorable returns on the plan assets or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations may materially change the timing and amount of required plan funding, which could reduce the cash available for our business. In addition, a decrease in the already historically low discount rate used to determine pension obligations could result in an increase in the valuation of pension obligations, which could affect the reported funding status of our pension plans and future contributions, as well as the periodic pension cost in subsequent fiscal years. We do not currently pay cash dividends on either class of our common stock. To the extent a potential investor ascribes value to a dividend paying stock, the value of our stock may be correspondingly reduced. Our Board of Directors has not declared a cash or stock dividend on our common stock or Class A common stock since 2008. The timing and amount of any future dividend is at the discretion of our board of directors, and they may be subject to limitations or restrictions in the 2012 Senior Credit Facility and other financing agreements we may be, or become, party to. We can provide no assurance when or if any future dividends will be declared on either class of common stock. As a result, if and to the extent an investor ascribes value to a dividend-paying stock, the value of our common stock and Class A common stock may be correspondingly reduced. We may be unable to maintain or increase our internet advertising revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We generate a portion of our advertising revenue from the sale of advertisements on our internet sites. Our ability to maintain or increase this advertising revenue is largely dependent upon the number of users actively visiting our internet sites. We believe we must increase user engagement with our internet sites in order to increase our advertising revenue. Because internet advertising techniques are evolving, if our technology and advertisement serving techniques do not evolve to meet the changing needs of advertisers, our advertising revenue could also decline. Changes in our business model, advertising inventory or initiatives could also cause a decrease in our internet advertising revenue. We do not have long-term agreements with most of our internet advertisers. Any termination, change or decrease in our relationships with our largest advertising clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. If we do not maintain or increase our advertising revenue, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brands could be adversely affected. We currently hold various domain name registrations relating to our brands. The registration and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to register or maintain relevant domain names. In addition, we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from registering domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brands, and make it more difficult for users to find our websites and our services. 27 Any potential hostilities or terrorist attacks, or similar events leading to broadcast interruptions, may affect our revenues and results of operations. If the United States engages in additional foreign hostilities or existing hostilities escalate, or if the United States experiences a terrorist attack or experiences any similar event resulting in interruptions to regularly scheduled broadcasting, we may lose advertising revenue and/or incur increased expenses. Lost revenue and increased expenses may be due to pre-emption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns, and increased costs of covering such events. We cannot predict the (i) extent or duration of any future disruption to our programming schedule, (ii) amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed or (iii) amount by which our broadcasting expenses would increase as a result. Any such loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our future results of operations. We have, in the past, incurred impairment charges on our goodwill and/or broadcast licenses, and any such future charges may have a material effect on the value of our total assets. As of December 31, 2013, the book value of our broadcast licenses was $839.0 million and the book value of our goodwill was $184.4 million, in comparison to total assets of $1.3 billion. Not less than annually, and more frequently if necessary, we are required to evaluate our goodwill and broadcast licenses to determine if the estimated fair value of these intangible assets is less than book value. If the estimated fair value of these intangible assets is less than book value, we will be required to record a non-cash expense to write-down the book value of the intangible asset to the estimated fair value. We cannot make any assurances that any required impairment charges will not have a material adverse effect on our total assets. Federal broadcasting industry regulations limit our operating flexibility. The FCC regulates all television broadcasters, including us. We must obtain FCC approval whenever we (i) apply for a new license, (ii) seek to renew, modify or assign a license, (iii) purchase a broadcast station and/or (iv) transfer the control of one of our subsidiaries that holds a license. Our FCC licenses are critical to our operations, and we cannot operate without them. We cannot be certain that the FCC will renew these licenses in the future or approve new acquisitions, mergers, divestitures or other business activities. Our failure to renew any licenses upon the expiration of any license term could have a material adverse effect on our business. Federal legislation and FCC rules have changed significantly in recent years and may continue to change. These changes may limit our ability to conduct our business in ways that we believe would be advantageous and may affect our operating results. The FCC can sanction us for programming broadcast on our stations that it finds to be indecent. Over the past several years, the FCC has increased its enforcement efforts regarding broadcast indecency and profanity and the statutory maximum fine for broadcasting indecent material is currently $325,000 per incident. In June 2012, the Supreme Court decided a challenge to the FCC’s indecency enforcement without resolving the scope of the FCC’s ability to regulate broadcast content. The FCC has not yet issued any further decisions concerning its indecency enforcement authority, and the courts remain free to review the FCC’s current policy or any modifications thereto. The outcomes of these proceedings could affect future FCC policies in this area, and we are unable to predict the outcome of any such judicial proceeding, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 28 The FCC’s duopoly restrictions limit our ability to own and operate multiple television stations in the same market. The FCC’s ownership rules generally prohibit us from owning or having “attributable interests” in television stations located in the same markets in which our stations are licensed. Accordingly, those rules constrain our ability to expand in our present markets through additional station acquisitions. The FCC’s National Television Station Ownership Rule limits the maximum number of households we can reach. Under the FCC’s National Television Station Ownership Rule, a single television station owner may not reach more than 39 percent of U.S. households through commonly owned television stations. This rule may constrain our ability to expand through additional station acquisitions. The FCC’s National Broadband Plan could result in the reallocation of broadcast spectrum for wireless broadband or other non-broadcast use, which could materially impair our ability to provide competitive services. In 2010, the FCC delivered to Congress a “National Broadband Plan.” The National Broadband Plan, among other things, makes recommendations regarding the use of spectrum currently allocated to television broadcasters, including seeking the voluntary surrender of certain portions of the television broadcast spectrum and repacking the currently allocated spectrum to make portions of that spectrum available for other wireless communications services. If some or all of our television stations are required to change frequencies or reduce the amount of spectrum they use, our stations could incur substantial conversion costs, reduction or loss of over-the-air signal coverage or an inability to provide high definition programming and additional program streams, including mobile video services. In late February 2012, Congress passed and the President signed legislation that, among other things, grants the FCC authority to conduct auctions of certain spectrum currently used by television broadcasters. These auctions would have two parts. First, the FCC would conduct a reverse auction by which a television broadcaster may volunteer, in return for payment, to relinquish its station’s spectrum by surrendering its license; relinquish part of its spectrum and thereafter share spectrum with another station; or modify a UHF channel license to a VHF channel license. Second, the FCC would conduct a forward auction of the relinquished auction to new users. The FCC must complete the reverse auction and the forward auction by September 30, 2022. To accommodate the spectrum reallocation to new users, the FCC may require that television stations that do not participate in the auction modify their transmission facilities. The legislation authorizes the FCC to reimburse stations for reasonable relocation costs up to a total across all stations of $1.75 billion. In addition, the legislation directs the FCC to use “reasonable efforts” to preserve a station’s coverage area and population served, and it prevents the FCC from requiring that a station involuntarily move from the UHF band to the VHF band or from the high VHF band to the low VHF band. On April 27, 2012, the FCC issued a Report and Order modifying the FCC’s rules to establish a licensing framework to allow two or more broadcast stations to share a 6Mhz channel. On September 28, 2012, the FCC adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to implement an incentive auction of broadcast television spectrum. We cannot predict the likelihood, timing or outcome of any Congressional or FCC regulatory action with respect to the implementation of the National Broadband Plan, incentive auctions, or repacking of broadcast television spectrum, nor the impact of any such changes upon our business. 29 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 