Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on advertising revenues, which are seasonal and cyclical, and also fluctuate as a result of a number of factors. Our main source of revenue is the sale of advertising time and space. Our ability to sell advertising time and space depends on, among other things: • economic conditions in the areas where our stations are located and in the nation as a whole; • the popularity of our programming; • changes in the population demographics in the areas where our stations are located; • local and national advertising price fluctuations, which can be affected by the availability of programming, the popularity of programming, and the relative supply of and demand for commercial advertising; • our competitors’ activities, including increased competition from other advertising-based mediums, particularly cable television, direct satellite television and internet; • the duration and extent of any network preemption of regularly scheduled programming for any reason and decisions by advertisers to withdraw or delay planned advertising expenditures for any reason; and • other factors beyond our control including labor disputes or other disruptions at major national advertisers, programming providers or networks. 15 Table of Contents Our results are also subject to seasonal and cyclical fluctuations that we expect to continue. Seasonal fluctuations typically result in higher broadcast operating income in the second and fourth quarters than first and third quarters of each year. This seasonality is primarily attributable to (i) advertisers’ increased expenditures in the spring and in anticipation of holiday season spending and (ii) an increase in viewership during this period. In addition, we typically experience fluctuations in our revenues between even and odd numbered years. During elections for various state and national offices, which are primarily in even numbered years, political advertising revenues tend to increase, often significantly, and particularly during presidential election years. Advertising revenues in odd numbered years tend to be less than in even numbered years due to the significantly lower level of political advertising in our markets. Also, since NBC has exclusive rights to broadcast the Olympics through 2012, our NBC affiliate stations typically experience increased viewership and revenues during Olympic broadcasts, which also occur in even numbered years. As a result of the seasonality of our revenues, and the historically significant increase in our revenues during even-numbered years, potential investors are cautioned that it has been, and is expected to remain, difficult to engage in period-over-period comparisons of our revenues. Continued uncertain financial and economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our industry, business, results of operations or financial condition. Current financial and economic conditions continue to be uncertain and the continuation or worsening of such conditions could reduce consumer confidence and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In addition, continued volatile economic and industry conditions could have a negative impact on our industry or the industries of those customers who advertise on our stations. Furthermore, it may be possible that any actions taken by any governmental or regulatory body for the purpose of stabilizing the economy or financial markets will not achieve their intended effect. In addition to any negative direct consequences to our business, results of operations or the value of our securities, some of these actions may adversely affect financial institutions, capital providers, advertisers or other consumers on whom we rely, including for access to future capital or financing arrangements necessary to support our business. We are a holding company with no material independent assets or operations and we depend on our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company with no material independent assets or operations, other than our investments in our subsidiaries. Because we are a holding company, we are dependent upon payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. These payments could be subject to restrictions on dividends or other payment restrictions under applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. Payments by our subsidiaries are also contingent upon the subsidiaries’ earnings. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our financial condition and ability to meet our obligations may be adversely affected. We have substantial debt and have the ability to incur additional debt. The principal and interest payment obligations on such debt may restrict our future operations and impair our ability to meet our obligations. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $826.7 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness (excluding intercompany indebtedness). In addition, the terms of our senior 16 Table of Contents credit facility and certain of the agreements governing our debt obligations permit us to incur additional indebtedness, subject to our ability to meet certain borrowing conditions. Our substantial debt may have important consequences. For instance, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; • increase our vulnerability to changes in general economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our debt, which will reduce funds available for other business purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with some of our competitors that may have less debt and better access to capital resources; • expose us to fluctuations in the interest rate environment because the interest rates on borrowings under our senior credit facility are variable; and • limit our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital, or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. The agreements governing our various debt obligations impose restrictions on our business and limit our ability to undertake certain corporate actions. The agreements governing our various debt obligations include covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • declare or pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions to stockholders; • make investments or acquisitions; • create liens or use assets as security in other transactions; • issue guarantees; • merge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease or dispose of substantially all of our assets; • amend our articles of incorporation or bylaws; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • purchase, sell or transfer certain assets. Our senior credit facility also requires us to comply with a number of financial ratios and covenants. Our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the agreement containing these covenants or restrictions. An event of default under any of our debt 17 Table of Contents obligations could permit some of our lenders, including the lenders under our senior credit facility, to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which could, in turn, trigger defaults under other debt obligations and the commitments of the lenders to make further extensions of credit under our senior credit facility could be terminated. Further, the lenders under any agreement which provides that borrowings thereunder are secured could foreclose on the collateral that is pledged to secure those obligations. If this occurred, we could be forced to sell assets or take other actions that could reduce the value of our business. Servicing our debt and other obligations requires a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt and these other obligations depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow. This is partially subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility, or that we will be able to complete any necessary financings, in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our operations or pay our debts and other obligations, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available in sufficient amounts, at times or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to service our debt or other obligations, which could result in us being in default thereon, in which circumstances our lenders could cease making loans to us and accelerate and declare due all outstanding obligations under our senior credit facility, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. The Company has a significant amount of indebtedness and other obligations that become due over a relatively short period of time. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and other obligations that will, or may, become due between December 31, 2014 and June 30, 2015. These obligations include amounts outstanding under our senior credit facility, our 10 1/2% senior secured second lien notes due 2015, which mature on June 29, 2015, (the “Notes”) and any potential exercise of optional redemption rights held by the holders of our Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock, which those holders may exercise at any time from and after June 30, 2015. Our inability to repay or refinance our indebtedness and other obligations as they become due, or the violation of any covenants which may impair, restrict or limit our ability to do so, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, in the event that we were unable to repay or refinance our indebtedness or other obligations, and a bankruptcy case were to be commenced under the bankruptcy code, we could be subject to claims, with respect to any payments made within 90 days prior to commencement of such a case, that we were insolvent at the time any such payments were made and that all or a portion of such payments, which could include repayments of amounts due under the Notes, might be deemed to constitute a preference, under the bankruptcy code, and that such payments should be voided by the bankruptcy court and recovered from the recipients for the benefit of the entire bankruptcy estate. 18 Table of Contents Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our senior credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. Our operating and financial flexibility is limited by the terms of our Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock. Our Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock prevents us from taking certain actions and requires us to comply with certain requirements. Among other things, this includes limitations on: • additional indebtedness; • liens; • amendments to our by-laws and articles of incorporation; • our ability to issue equity securities having liquidation preferences senior or equivalent to the liquidation preferences of the Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock; • mergers and the sale of assets; • guarantees; • investments and acquisitions; • payment of dividends and the redemption of our capital stock; and • related-party transactions. These restrictions may prevent us from taking action that could increase the value of our business, or may require actions that decrease the value of our business. We do not currently pay cash dividends on either class of our common stock, and have not paid certain accumulated dividends under our Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock. To the extent a potential investor ascribes value to a dividend paying stock, the value of our stock may be correspondingly reduced. Our board of directors has not declared a cash or stock dividend on our common stock or Class A common stock since the third quarter of 2008. We can provide no assurance when or if any future dividends will be declared on either class of common stock. On April 29, 2010, we repurchased approximately $60.7 million in face amount of our Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock, and $14.9 million in accrued dividends thereon, in exchange for $50.0 million in cash, using net proceeds from the sale of Notes, and 8.5 million shares of common stock. Except for the payment of dividends on April 29, 2010, we have deferred the cash payment of our preferred stock dividends earned thereon since October 1, 2008. Because at least three consecutive cash dividend payments with respect to the Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock remain unfunded, the dividend rate has increased from 15.0% per annum to 17.0% per annum. Our Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock 19 Table of Contents dividend began accruing at 17.0% per annum on July 16, 2009 and will accrue at that rate as long as at least three consecutive cash dividend payments remain unfunded. While any Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock dividend payments are in arrears, we are prohibited from repurchasing, declaring and/or paying any cash dividend with respect to any equity securities having liquidation preferences equivalent to or junior in ranking to the liquidation preferences of the Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock, including our common stock and Class A common stock. We can provide no assurances as to when any future cash payments will be made on any accumulated and unpaid Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock cash dividends presently in arrears or that become in arrears in the future. If and to the extent an investor ascribes value to a dividend-paying stock, the value of our common stock and Class A common stock may be correspondingly reduced due to our current cessation of dividend payments. We must purchase television programming in advance but cannot predict whether a particular show will be popular enough to cover its cost. One of our most significant costs is television programming. If a particular program is not sufficiently popular among audiences in relation to its costs, we may not be able to sell enough related advertising time to cover the costs of the program. Since we purchase programming content from others, we have little control over programming costs. We also must usually purchase programming several years in advance, and may have to commit to purchase more than one year’s worth of programming, resulting in the incurrence of significant advance costs. We may also replace programs that are performing poorly before we have recaptured any significant portion of the costs we incurred in obtaining such programming or fully expensed the costs for financial reporting purposes. Any of these factors could reduce our revenues, result in the incurrence of impairment charges or otherwise cause our costs to escalate relative to revenues. For instance, during the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a television program impairment expense of $0.4 million. We are highly dependent upon our network affiliations, and may lose a large amount of television programming if a network (i) terminates its affiliation with us, (ii) significantly changes the economic terms and conditions of any future affiliation agreements with us or (iii) significantly changes the type, quality or quantity of programming provided to us under an affiliation agreement. Our business depends in large part on the success of our network affiliations. Each of our stations is affiliated with a major network pursuant to an affiliation agreement. Each affiliation agreement provides the affiliated station with the right to broadcast all programs transmitted by the affiliated network. Our affiliation agreements expire at various dates through January 1, 2016. See Our Stations and Their Markets elsewhere in this Annual Report for a detailed listing of the expiration dates of our network affiliations. If we cannot enter into affiliation agreements to replace our expiring agreements, we may no longer be able to carry the affiliated network’s programming. This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming. Such replacement programming may involve higher costs and may not be as attractive to our target audiences, thereby reducing our ability to generate advertising revenue. Furthermore, our concentration of CBS and/or NBC affiliates makes us particularly sensitive to adverse changes in our business relationship with, and the general success of, CBS and/or NBC. 20 Table of Contents In addition, if we are unable to renew or replace our existing affiliation agreements, we may be unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing or any future retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs. Furthermore, if in the future a network limited or removed our ability to retransmit network programming to MVPDs, we may be unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing or any future retransmission consent agreements. In either case such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Competition occurs on multiple levels (for audiences, programming and advertisers) and is based on a variety of factors. If we are not able to successfully compete in all relevant aspects, our revenues will be materially adversely affected. As described elsewhere herein, television stations compete for audiences, certain programming (including news) and advertisers. Signal coverage and assigned frequency also materially affect a television station’s competitive position. With respect to audiences, stations compete primarily based on broadcast program popularity. Because we purchase or otherwise acquire, rather than produce, programs, we cannot provide any assurances as to the acceptability by audiences of any of the programs we broadcast. Further, because we compete with other broadcast stations for certain programming, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain any desired programming at costs that we believe are reasonable. Cable-originated programming, combined with increased access to cable and satellite TV, has become a significant competitor for broadcast television programming viewers. Cable networks’ advertising share has increased due to the growth in cable/satellite penetration (the percentage of television households that are connected to a cable or satellite system), which reduces broadcast television viewers. Further increases in the advertising share of cable or satellite networks could materially adversely affect the advertising revenue of our television stations. In addition, technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of programming alternatives, such as home entertainment systems, “wireless cable’’ services, satellite master antenna television systems, LPTV stations, television translator stations, DBS, video distribution services, pay-per-view and the internet, have further fractionalized television viewing audiences and resulted in additional challenges to revenue generation. Our inability or failure to broadcast popular programs, or otherwise maintain viewership for any reason, including as a result of significant increases in programming alternatives, could result in a lack of advertisers, or a reduction in the amount advertisers are willing to pay us to advertise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence upon a limited number of advertising categories could adversely affect our business. We derive a material portion of our advertising revenue from the automotive and restaurant industries. In 2010, we earned approximately 17% and 9% of our total revenue from the automotive and restaurant categories, respectively. In 2009, we earned approximately 17% and 12% of our total revenue from the automotive and restaurant categories, respectively. Our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected if automotive or restaurant-related advertising revenues decrease. Our business and operating results could also be materially adversely affected if revenue decreased from one or more other significant advertising categories, such as the communications, entertainment, financial services, professional services or retail industries. 21 Table of Contents The transition to digital operations will continue to require us to incur significant capital expenditures. Our required conversion from analog to digital television operations will require us to incur continued significant capital expenditures in replacing our stations’ equipment to produce local programming, including news, in high definition digital format. We cannot be certain that increased revenues will offset these additional capital expenditures. Any potential hostilities or terrorist attacks, or similar events leading to broadcast interruptions, may affect our revenues and results of operations. If the United States engages in additional foreign hostilities, experiences a terrorist attack or experiences any similar event resulting in interruptions to regularly scheduled broadcasting, we may lose advertising revenue and incur increased broadcasting expenses. Lost revenue and increased expenses may be due to pre-emption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns, and increased costs of covering such events. We cannot predict the (i) extent or duration of any future disruption to our programming schedule, (ii) amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed or (iii) amount by which our broadcasting expenses would increase as a result. Any such loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our future results of operations. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Federal broadcasting industry regulations limit our operating flexibility. The FCC regulates all television broadcasters, including us. We must obtain FCC approval whenever we (i) apply for a new license, (ii) seek to renew or assign a license, (iii) purchase a new station or (iv) transfer the control of one of our subsidiaries that holds a license. Our FCC licenses are critical to our operations, and we cannot operate without them. We cannot be certain that the FCC will renew these licenses in the future or approve new acquisitions. Our failure to renew any licenses upon the expiration of any license term could have a material adverse effect on our business. Federal legislation and FCC rules have changed significantly in recent years and may continue to change. These changes may limit our ability to conduct our business in ways that we believe would be advantageous and may affect our operating results. The FCC’s duopoly restrictions limit our ability to own and operate multiple television stations in the same market. The FCC’s ownership rules generally prohibit us from owning or having “attributable interests” in television stations located in the same markets in which our stations are licensed. Accordingly, those rules constrain our ability to expand in our present markets through additional station acquisitions. The FCC’s National Television Station Ownership Rule limits the maximum number of households we can reach. A single television station owner can reach no more than 39 percent of U.S. households through commonly owned television stations. Accordingly, these rules constrain our ability to expand through additional station acquisitions. 22 Table of Contents The FCC’s National Broadband Plan could result in the reallocation of broadcast spectrum for wireless broadband use, which could materially impair our ability to provide competitive services. On March 16, 2010, the FCC delivered to Congress a “National Broadband Plan.” The National Broadband Plan, inter alia, makes recommendations regarding the use of spectrum currently allocated to television broadcasters, including seeking the voluntary surrender of certain portions of the television broadcast spectrum and repacking the currently allocated spectrum to make portions of that spectrum available for other wireless communications services. If some or all of our television stations are required to change frequencies or reduce the amount of spectrum they use, our stations could incur substantial conversion costs, reduction or loss of over-the-air signal coverage or an inability to provide high definition programming and additional program streams, including mobile video services. Prior to implementation of the proposals contained in the National Broadband Plan, further action by the FCC or Congress or both is necessary. On November 30, 2010, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that proposes preliminary rule changes to allow a portion of the spectrum currently allocated to broadcasters to be repurposed for broadband use. These proposals include (i) making broadcast spectrum allocations available for flexible use, (ii) establishing a licensing framework to allow two or more broadcast stations to share a 6Mhz channel, and (iii) improving the reception of VHF signals. We cannot predict the likelihood, timing or outcome of any Congressional or FCC regulatory action with respect to the implementation of the National Broadband Plan nor the impact of any such changes upon our business. Our ability to successfully negotiate future retransmission consent agreements may be hindered by the interests of networks with whom we are affiliated and by potential legislative or regulatory changes to the framework under which these agreements are negotiated. Our affiliation agreements with some broadcast networks include certain terms that may affect our future ability to permit MVPDs to retransmit network programming, and in some cases, we may be unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing or any future retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs in our local markets if the broadcast networks withhold their consent to the retransmission of those positions of our stations’ signals containing network programming, or the networks may require us to pay compensation in exchange for permitting redistribution of network programming by MVPDs. If we are required to make payments to networks in connection with signal retransmission, those payments may adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing or future retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The FCC announced its intention to issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on November 30, 2010 to consider proposals to change the current rules for conducting negotiations with cable and satellite companies. If the FCC were to revise the rules by which these negotiations are conducted, our ability to generate revenue for these services could be materially adversely affected. Congress recently passed the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010 (“STELA”), which extends the compulsory copyright enabling DBS operators to deliver distant signals to unserved households through the end of 2014. In December 2010, the FCC adopted regulations to implement STELA’s provisions. STELA’s modifications to the rules on the importation of distant signals are not expected to have an adverse effect on the Gray stations, which generally maintain exclusivity in their markets, or to hinder any Gray station’s ability to negotiate reasonable fees for the carriage of its signal. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 