Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on advertising revenues, which are seasonal, and also may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors. Our main source of revenue is sales of advertising time and space. Our ability to sell advertising time and space depends on: • economic conditions in the areas where our stations are located and in the nation as a whole; • the popularity of our programming; • changes in the population demographics in the areas where our stations are located; • local and national advertising price fluctuations, which can be affected by the availability of programming, the popularity of programming, and the relative supply of and demand for commercial advertising; • our competitors’ activities , including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based mediums, particularly network, cable television, direct satellite television and internet; • the duration and extent of any network preemption of regularly scheduled programming for any reason, including as a result of the outbreak or continuance of military hostilities or terrorist attacks, and 12 Table of Contents decisions by advertisers to withdraw or delay planned advertising expenditures for any reason, including as a result of military action or terrorist attacks; and • other factors that may be beyond our control. For example, a labor dispute or other disruption at a major national advertiser, programming provider or network, or a recession nationally and/or in a particular market, might make it more difficult to sell advertising time and space and could reduce our revenue. Our results are also subject to seasonal fluctuations. Seasonal fluctuations typically result in higher broadcast operating income in the second and fourth quarters than first and third quarters of each year. This seasonality is primarily attributable to (i) advertisers’ increased expenditures in the spring and in anticipation of holiday season spending and (ii) an increase in viewership during this period. Furthermore, revenues from political advertising are significantly higher in even-numbered years, particularly during presidential election years. Our operating and financial flexibility is limited by the terms of our senior credit facility. Our senior credit facility prevents us from taking certain actions and requires us to comply with certain financial and operating requirements. Among other things, these include limitations on: • certain additional indebtedness; • liens; • amendments to our by-laws and articles of incorporation; • mergers and the sale of assets; • guarantees; • investments and acquisitions; • payment of dividends and redemption of our capital stock; • a specified leverage ratio; • related party transactions; • purchases of real estate; and • entering into multiemployer retirement plans. These restrictions and requirements may prevent us from taking actions that could increase the value of our business, or may require actions that decrease the value of our business. In addition, if we fail to maintain compliance with any of these requirements, we would thereby be in default under such senior credit facility. If we were in default under this agreement, the lenders thereunder could require immediate payment of all obligations under the senior credit facility and/or foreclose on the collateral that is pledged to secure those obligations. If this occurred, we could be forced to sell assets or take other action that would reduce the value of our business. Servicing our debt and other obligations requires a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We have significant financial obligations outstanding. Our ability to service our debt and these other obligations depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow. This is partially subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility, or that we will be able to complete any necessary financings, in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our operations or pay our debts and other obligations, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise 13 Table of Contents additional capital. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available in sufficient amounts, at times or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to service our debt or other obligations, which could result in us being in default thereon, in which circumstances our lenders could cease making loans to us and accelerate and declare due all outstanding obligations under our senior credit facility, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, the current volatility in the capital markets may also impact our ability to obtain additional financing, or to refinance our existing debt, on terms or at times favorable to us. Our operating and financial flexibility is limited by the terms of our Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock. Our Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock prevents us from taking certain actions and requires us to comply with certain requirements. Among other things, this includes limitations on: • additional indebtedness; • liens; • amendments to our by-laws and articles of incorporation; • our ability to issue equity securities having liquidation preferences senior or equivalent to the liquidation preferences of the Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock; • mergers and the sale of assets; • guarantees; • investments and acquisitions; • payment of dividends and the redemption of our capital stock; and • related-party transactions. These restrictions may prevent us from taking action that could increase the value of our business, or may require actions that decrease the value of our business. We have suspended cash dividends on both classes of our common stock and have not paid certain accumulated dividends under our Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock. To the extent a potential investor ascribes value to a dividend paying stock, the value of our stock may be correspondingly reduced. Our board of directors has not declared a cash or stock dividend for our common stock or Class A common stock since the third quarter of 2008. We can provide no assurance when or if any future dividends will be declared on either class of common stock. We made our most recent Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock cash dividend payment on October 15, 2008, for dividends earned through September 30, 2008. We have deferred the cash payment of our preferred stock dividends earned thereon since October 1, 2008. As a result of our election to defer three consecutive cash dividend payments with respect to the Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock, the dividend rate thereon has increased from 15.0% per annum to 17.0% per annum. While any Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock dividend payments are in arrears, we are prohibited from repurchasing, declaring and/or paying any cash dividend with respect to any equity securities having liquidation preferences equivalent to or junior in ranking to the liquidation preferences of the Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock, including our common stock and Class A common stock. We can provide no assurances as to when any future cash payments will be made on any accumulated and unpaid Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock cash dividends presently in arrears or that become in arrears in the future. The Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock has no mandatory redemption date but may be redeemed at the stockholders’ option on or after June 30, 2015. If and to the extent an investor ascribes value to a dividend-paying stock, the value of our common and Class A common stock may be correspondingly reduced due to our current cessation of dividend payments. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain the NYSE listings for our common stock and/or Class A common stock. The NYSE requires all NYSE-listed companies to maintain compliance with certain criteria. These criteria include minimum stock price and minimum market capitalization standards. From November 3, 2008 until September 30, 2009, our common stock did not satisfy the NYSE’s minimum stock price criteria for continued listing because the average closing price per share over a consecutive 30 trading-day period was less than $1.00 per share. In addition, the NYSE has other listing standards that may apply to us, including a requirement to have a minimum market capitalization of at least $15 million over a 30-trading-day period. Failure to comply with this particular listing standard allows the NYSE to delist promptly a company from the exchange. As of April 5, 2010, our average market capitalization calculated over the prior consecutive 30-trading-day period was $104.9 million. Although we are currently in compliance with all of the NYSE’s continued listing criteria, we can give no assurances that we will be able to remain in compliance in future periods. If either class of our common stock cannot meet the applicable NYSE listing standards, then the NYSE may delist both classes of our common stock. If our common stock or Class A common stock were delisted from the NYSE, the liquidity of such stock may be significantly reduced which could, in turn, materially adversely effect the price of such stock. In such event, we may seek to have such Stock listed for trading on another national exchange or alternative over-the-counter trading forum to provide liquidity to investors, although we can provide no assurances as to the liquidity, market pricing or investor interest in either class of our common stock under such circumstances. We have, in the past, incurred impairment charges on our goodwill and/or broadcast licenses, and any such future charges may have a material effect on the value of our total assets. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge to our broadcast licenses of $240.1 million and a non-cash impairment charge to our goodwill of $98.6 million. As of December 31, 2009, the book value of our broadcast licenses was $819.0 million and the book value of our goodwill was $170.5 million, in comparison to total assets of $1.2 billion. Not less than annually, and more frequently if necessary, we are required to evaluate our goodwill and broadcast licenses to determine if the estimated fair value of these intangible assets is less than book value. If the estimated fair value of these intangible assets is less than book value, we will be required to record a non-cash expense to write-down the book value of the intangible asset to the estimated fair value. We cannot make any assurances that any required impairment charges will not have a material effect on our total assets. We must purchase television programming in advance but cannot predict whether a particular show will be popular enough to cover its cost. One of our most significant costs is television programming. If a particular program is not sufficiently popular among audiences in relation to its costs, we may not be able to sell enough advertising time to cover the costs of the program. Since we purchase programming content from others, we have little control over programming costs. We usually must purchase programming several years in advance, and may have to commit to purchase more than one year’s worth of programming. We may also replace programs that are performing poorly before we have recaptured any significant portion of the costs we incurred or fully expensed the costs for financial reporting purposes. Any of these factors could reduce our revenues, result in the incurrence of impairment charges or otherwise cause our costs to escalate relative to revenues. For instance, during the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a television program impairment expense of $0.2 million. 15 Table of Contents We are highly dependent upon our network affiliations, and may lose a large amount of television programming if a network (i) terminates its affiliation with us, (ii) significantly changes the economic terms and conditions of any future affiliation agreements with us or (iii) significantly changes the type, quality or quantity of programming provided to us under an affiliation agreement. Our business depends in large part on the success of our network affiliations. Each of our stations is affiliated with a major network pursuant to an affiliation agreement. Each affiliation agreement provides the affiliated station with the right to broadcast all programs transmitted by the affiliated network. Our affiliation agreements expire at various dates through January 1, 2016. If we can not enter into affiliation agreements to replace our expiring agreements, we may no longer be able to carry the affiliated network’s programming. This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming. Such replacement programming may involve higher costs and may not be as attractive to our target audiences, thereby reducing our ability to generate advertising revenue. Furthermore, our concentration of CBS and/or NBC affiliates makes us particularly sensitive to adverse changes in our business relationship with, and the general success of, CBS and/or NBC. In addition, if we are unable renew or replace our existing affiliation agreements, we may be unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing or any future retransmission consent agreements with cable, satellite and telecommunications providers (“MVPDs”). Furthermore, if in the future a network limited or removed our ability to retransmit network programming to MVPDs, we may be unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing or any future retransmission consent agreements. In either case such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Competition occurs on multiple levels (for audiences, programming and advertisers) and is based on a variety of factors. If we are not able to successfully compete in all relevant aspects, our revenues will be materially adversely affected. As described elsewhere herein, television stations compete for audiences, certain programming (including news) and advertisers. Signal coverage and assigned frequency also materially affect a television station’s competitive position. With respect to audiences, stations compete primarily based on broadcast program popularity. Because we purchase or otherwise acquire, rather than produce, programs, we cannot provide any assurances as to the acceptability by audiences of any of the programs we broadcast. Further, because we compete with other broadcast stations for certain programming, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain any desired programming at costs that we believe are reasonable. Cable-originated programming and increased access to cable and satellite TV has become a significant competitor for broadcast television programming viewers. Cable networks’ advertising share has increased due to the growth in cable/satellite penetration (the percentage of television households that are connected to a cable or satellite system), which reduces viewers. Further increases in the advertising share of cable or satellite networks could materially adversely affect the advertising revenue of our television stations. In addition, technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of programming alternatives, such as home entertainment systems, “wireless cable” services, satellite master antenna television systems, LPTV stations, television translator stations, DBS, video distribution services, pay-per-view and the internet, have further fractionalized television viewing audiences and resulted in additional challenges to revenue generation. Our inability or failure to broadcast popular programs, or otherwise maintain viewership for any reason, including as a result of significant increases in programming alternatives, could result in a lack of advertisers, or a reduction in the amount advertisers are willing to pay us to advertise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence upon a single advertising category could adversely affect our business. We derive a material portion of our advertising revenue from the automotive and restaurant industries. In 2009, we earned approximately 17% and 12% of our total revenue from the automotive and restaurant categories, respectively. In 2008, we earned approximately 19% and 10% of our total revenue from the 16 Table of Contents automotive and restaurant categories, respectively. Our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected if automotive or restaurant-related advertising revenues decrease. Our business and operating results could also be materially adversely affected if revenue decreased from one or more other significant advertising categories, such as the communications, entertainment, financial services, professional services or retail industries. The required phased-in introduction of digital television will continue to require us to incur significant capital and operating costs and may expose us to increased competition. The 2009 requirement to convert from analog to digital television services in the United States may require us to incur significant capital expenditures in replacing our stations’ equipment to produce local programming, including news, in digital format. We cannot be certain that increased revenues will offset these additional capital expenditures. In addition, we also may incur additional costs to obtain programming for the additional channels made available by digital technology. Increased revenues from the additional channels may not offset the conversion costs and additional programming expenses. Multiple channels programmed by other stations may further increase competition in our markets. Any potential hostilities or terrorist attacks, or similar events leading to broadcast interruptions, may affect our revenues and results of operations. If the United States engages in additional foreign hostilities, experiences a terrorist attack or experiences any similar event resulting in interruptions to regularly scheduled broadcasting, we may lose advertising revenue and incur increased broadcasting expenses. Lost revenue and increased expenses may be due to pre-emption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns, and increased costs of covering such events. We cannot predict the (i) extent or duration of any future disruption to our programming schedule, (ii) amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed or (iii) amount by which our broadcasting expenses would increase as a result. Any such loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our future results of operations. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Federal broadcasting industry regulation limits our operating flexibility. The FCC regulates all television broadcasters, including us. We must obtain FCC approval whenever we (i) apply for a new license, (ii) seek to renew or assign a license, (iii) purchase a new station or (iv) transfer the control of one of our subsidiaries that holds a license. Our FCC licenses are critical to our operations, and we cannot operate without them. We cannot be certain that the FCC will renew these licenses in the future or approve new acquisitions. Our failure to renew any licenses upon the expiration of any license term could have a material adverse effect on our business. Federal legislation and FCC rules have changed significantly in recent years and may continue to change. These changes may limit our ability to conduct our business in ways that we believe would be advantageous and may affect our operating results. The FCC’s duopoly restrictions limit our ability to own and operate multiple television stations in the same market and our ability to own and operate a television station and newspaper in the same market. The FCC’s ownership rules generally prohibit us from owning or having “attributable interests” in television stations located in the same markets in which our stations are licensed. Accordingly, those rules constrain our ability to expand in our present markets through additional station acquisitions. Current FCC cross-ownership rules prevent us from owning and operating a television station and newspaper in the same market. 17 Table of Contents The FCC’s National Television Station Ownership Rule limits the maximum number of households we can reach. A single television station owner can reach no more than 39 percent of U.S. households through commonly owned television stations. Accordingly, these rules constrain our ability to expand through additional station acquisitions. Federal legislation and FCC rules have changed significantly in recent years and may continue to change. These changes may limit our ability to conduct our business in ways that we believe would be advantageous and may affect our operating results. The FCC’s National Broadband Plan could result in the reallocation of broadcast spectrum for wireless broadband use, which could materially impair our ability to provide competitive services. On March 16, 2010, the FCC delivered to Congress a “National Broadband Plan.” The National Broadband Plan, inter alia, makes recommendations regarding the use of spectrum currently allocated to television broadcasters, including seeking the voluntary surrender of certain portions of the television broadcast spectrum and repacking the currently allocated spectrum to make portions of that spectrum available for other wireless communications services. If some or all of our television stations are required to change frequencies or reduce the amount of spectrum they use, our stations could incur substantial conversion costs, reduction or loss of over-the-air signal coverage or an inability to provide high definition programming and additional program streams, including mobile video services. Prior to implementation of the proposals contained in the National Broadband Plan, further action by the FCC or Congress or both is necessary. We cannot predict the likelihood, timing or outcome of any Congressional or FCC regulatory action in this regard nor the impact of any such changes upon our business. Our ability to successfully negotiate future retransmission consent agreements may be hindered by the interests of networks with whom we are affiliated. Our affiliation agreements with some broadcast networks include certain terms that may affect our future ability to permit MVPDs to retransmit network programming, and in some cases, we may be unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing or any future retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate future retransmission consent agreements with the MVPDs in our local markets if the broadcast networks withhold their consent to the retransmission of those portions of our stations’ signals containing network programming, or the networks may require us to pay compensation in exchange for permitting redistribution of network programming by MVPDs. If we are required to make payments to networks in connection with signal retransmission, those payments may adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing or future retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs then there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 