Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a substantial degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should give careful consideration to the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this report. The following risk factors, however, may not reflect all of the risks associated with our business or an investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to comprehensive regulation by federal, state and local regulatory agencies that impact the rates we are able to charge, our costs and profitability. The MPSC, WPSC, PUCO, PAPUC, MPUC, NCUC and FERC regulate many aspects of our distribution and transmission operations. State regulatory agencies set the rates that we may charge customers, which effectively limits the rate of return we are permitted to realize. Our ability to obtain rate increases and rate supplements to maintain the current rate of return and/or recover costs depends upon regulatory discretion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or continue to receive the current authorized rates of return, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. The state utility regulatory agencies also regulate our public utilities’ gas purchases, construction and maintenance of facilities, the terms of service to our customers, safety and various other aspects of our distribution operations. FERC regulates interstate transportation and storage of natural gas. FERC exercises jurisdiction over the Shoshone transmission pipeline with respect to terms of service, maintenance of facilities, safety and various other aspects of our transmission operations. Also, to the extent that our utilities have contracts for transportation and storage services under FERC-approved tariffs with interstate pipelines, our utilities are subject to FERC rules and regulations pertaining to those services. If we fail to comply with applicable state and federal regulations, we may be subject to fines or penalties. Our gas purchase practices are subject to annual reviews by state regulatory agencies which could impact our earnings and cash flow. The regulatory agencies that oversee our utility operations may review retrospectively our purchases of natural gas on an annual basis. The purpose of these annual reviews is to reconcile the differences, if any, between the amount we paid for natural gas and the amount our customers paid for natural gas. If any costs are disallowed in this review process, these disallowed costs would be expensed in the cost of gas but would not be recovered by us in the rates charged to our customers. The various state regulatory agencies’ reviews of our gas purchase practices create the potential for the disallowance of our recovery through gas cost recovery pricing mechanisms. Significant disallowances could affect our earnings and cash flow. The PUCO conducts gas recovery financial audits of gas utilities annually, and full reviews of gas purchasing practices and procedures every two years. Full audits are currently underway for both NEO and Orwell. The PUCO staff has taken the position that Orwell has over recovered approximately $1.1 million in gas costs and recommended that these costs be offset against future gas charges. Although we agree that Orwell has over recovered some costs, we believe the amount is less than $1.1 million. With respect to NEO, the commission staff has taken the position that NEO has under recovered approximately $1.1 million in gas costs and 11 Table of Contents recommended that NEO be permitted to add these costs to future gas charges. We believe that NEO is entitled to a greater recovery. The audits of Orwell and NEO are set for evidentiary hearing on April 25 and we intend to contest the staff’s recommendations. We cannot predict whether the PUCO will allow us to recover all of the costs we seek to recover. Operational issues beyond our control could have an adverse effect on our business. We operate in geographically dispersed areas. Our ability to provide natural gas depends both on our own operations and facilities and those of third parties, including local gas producers and natural gas pipeline operators from whom we receive our natural gas supply. The loss of use or destruction of our facilities or the facilities of third parties due to extreme weather conditions, breakdowns, war, acts of terrorism or other occurrences could greatly reduce potential earnings and cash flows and increase our costs of repairs and replacement of assets. Our losses may not be fully recoverable through insurance or customer rates. Storing and transporting natural gas involves inherent risks that could cause us to incur significant financial losses. There are inherent hazards and operation risks in gas distribution activities, such as leaks, accidental explosions and mechanical problems that could cause the loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. These activities may subject us to litigation and administrative proceedings that could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines or penalties against us. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these events is not fully covered by insurance, they could adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Our earnings and cash flow are sensitive to decreases in customer consumption resulting from warmer than normal temperatures and customer conservation. Our gas sales revenue is generated primarily through the sale and delivery of natural gas to residential and commercial customers who use natural gas mainly for space heating. Consequently, temperatures have a significant impact on sales and revenue. Given the impact of weather on our utility operations, our business is a seasonal business. In addition, the average annual natural gas consumption of customers has been decreasing because, among other things, new homes and appliances are typically more energy efficient than older homes and appliances, and customers appear to be continuing a pattern of conserving energy by utilizing more energy efficient heating systems, insulation, alternative energy sources, and other energy savings devices and techniques. A mild winter, as well as continued or increased conservation, in any of our service areas can have a significant adverse impact on demand for natural gas and, consequently, earnings and cash flow. The increased cost of purchasing natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly could adversely impact our earnings and cash flow. The rates we are permitted to charge allow us to recover our cost of purchasing natural gas. In general, the various regulatory agencies allow us to recover the costs of natural gas purchased for customers on a dollar-for-dollar basis (in the absence of disallowances), without a profit component. We periodically adjust customer rates for increases and decreases in the cost of gas purchased by us for sale to our customers. Under the regulatory body-approved gas cost recovery pricing mechanisms, the gas commodity charge portion of gas rates we charge to our customers may be adjusted upward on a periodic basis. If the cost of purchasing natural gas increases and we are unable to recover these costs from our customers immediately, or at all, we may incur increased costs associated with higher working capital requirements. In addition, any increases in the cost of purchasing natural gas may result in higher customer bad debt expense for uncollectible accounts and reduced sales volume and related margins due to lower customer consumption. Volatility in the price of natural gas could result in customers switching to alternative energy sources which could reduce our revenue, earnings and cash flow. The market price of alternative energy sources such as coal, electricity, propane, oil and steam is a competitive factor affecting the demand for our gas distribution services. Our customers may have or may acquire the capacity to use one or more of the alternative energy sources if the price of natural gas and our distribution services increase significantly. Natural gas has typically been less expensive than these alternative energy sources. However, if natural gas prices increase significantly, some of these alternative energy sources may become more economical or more attractive than natural gas, which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. The gas industry is intensely competitive and competition has increased in recent years as a result of changes in the price negotiation process within the supply and distribution chain of the gas industry, both of which could negatively impact earnings. We compete with companies from various regions of the United States and may compete with foreign companies for domestic sales, many of whom are larger and have greater financial, technological, human and other resources. Additionally, legislative and regulatory initiatives, at both the federal and state levels, are designed to promote competition. These challenges have been compounded by changes in the gas industry that have allowed certain customers to negotiate gas purchases directly with producers or brokers. We could lose market share or our profit margins may decline in the future if we are unable to remain competitive. Earnings and cash flow may be adversely affected by downturns in the economy. 12 Table of Contents Our operations are affected by the conditions and overall strength of the national, regional and local economies, which impact the amount of residential and industrial growth and actual gas consumption in our service territories. Our commercial customers use natural gas in the production of their products. During economic downturns, these customers may see a decrease in demand for their products, which in turn may lead to a decrease in the amount of natural gas they require for production. In addition, during periods of slow or little economic growth, energy conservation efforts often increase and the amount of uncollectible customer accounts increases. These factors may reduce earnings and cash flow. Changes in the market price and transportation costs of natural gas could result in financial losses that would negatively impact our results of operations. We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of natural gas. We purchase and store gas for distribution later in the year. We also enter agreements to buy or sell gas at a fixed price. We may use such arrangements to protect profit margins on future obligations to deliver gas at a fixed price, or to attempt to protect against adverse effects of potential market price declines on future obligations to purchase gas at fixed prices. Further, we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by the counterparties to our supply agreements, which could have a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. Changes in current regulations, the regulatory environment and events in the energy markets that are beyond our control may reduce our earnings and limit our access to capital markets. As a result of the energy crisis in California during 2000 and 2001, the bankruptcy of some energy companies, and the volatility of natural gas prices in North America, companies in regulated and unregulated energy businesses have generally been under increased scrutiny by regulators, participants in the capital markets and debt rating agencies. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC could enact new accounting standards that could impact the way we are required to record revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities, and state utility regulatory agencies could enact more stringent rules or standards with respect to rates, cost recovery, safety, construction, maintenance or other aspects of our operations. For instance, on April 16, 2010 the MPUC proposed amendments to Chapter 420 of its regulations (Safety Standards for Natural Gas Transmission and Distribution Systems and Liquefied Natural Gas Facilities). On June 17, 2010, the MPUC issued an order suspending the comment period and indicating that the MPUC’s staff was considering significant revisions, but the proposed rules, if adopted as initially proposed, would have imposed significant new and enhanced requirements on Bangor Gas Company with respect to design, fabrication, installation, inspection, reporting, testing and safety aspects of operating and maintaining its pipeline system. On February 15, 2011 the MPUC approved the revisions to the Chapter 420 ruling which proved to be less intrusive and a more favorable outcome resulted for the utility companies operating within the state. We cannot predict or control what effect proposed regulations, events in the energy markets or other future actions of regulatory agencies or others in response to such events may have on our earnings or access to the capital markets. We acquired interests in our natural gas wells by quitclaim deed and cannot guarantee that we hold clear title to our interests or that our interests will not be challenged in the future. We own an average 48% gross working interest (average 42% net revenue interest) in 160 natural gas producing wells, which provide our marketing and production operations a partial natural hedge when market prices of natural gas are greater than the cost of production. The gas production from these wells provided approximately 23% of the volume requirements for EWR’s Montana market for 2010. We acquired our interests in the wells in 2002 and 2003 by quitclaim deed conveying interests in certain oil and gas leases for the wells. Because the sellers conveyed their interests by quitclaim, we received no warranty or representation from them that they owned their interests free and clear from adverse claims by third parties or other title defects. We have no title insurance, guaranty or warranty for our interests in the wells. Further, the wells may be subject to prior, unregistered agreements, or transfers which have not been recorded. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we hold clear title to our interests or that our interests will not be challenged in the future. If our interests were challenged, expenses for curative title work, litigation or other dispute resolution mechanisms may be incurred. Loss of our interests would reduce or eliminate our production operations and reduce or eliminate the partial natural hedge that our marketing and production subsidiary currently enjoys as a result of our production capabilities. For all of these reasons, a challenge to our ownership could negatively impact our earnings, profits and results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404) contains provisions requiring an annual assessment by management, as of the end of the fiscal year, of the effectiveness of internal control for financial reporting, as well as attestation and reporting by independent auditors on management’s assessment as well as other control-related matters. Beginning with our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, we began complying with Section 404 and that Form 10-K included a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Compliance with Section 404 is both costly and challenging. Going forward, there is a risk that we will not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. Further, during the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadlines imposed under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for 13 Table of Contents compliance with Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could be adversely affected. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase our cost of operations, impact our business plans and expose us to environmental liabilities. Environmental regulations that may affect our present and future operations include regulation of air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital expenditures and operating costs. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. We cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. We may be a responsible party for environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body in the future. If that occurs, we cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all potentially responsible parties. We cannot be sure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations intended to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have a net deferred tax asset of $13.4 million and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient future taxable income to realize a significant portion of this net deferred tax asset, which could lead to a write-down (or even a loss) of the net deferred tax asset and adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the $13.4 million net deferred tax asset over the next 19 years. Management will reevaluate the valuation allowance each year on completion of updated estimates of taxable income for future periods, and will further reduce the deferred tax asset by the new valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that we will not realize some portion or all of the recognized deferred tax assets. If the estimates indicate that we are unable to use all or a portion of the net deferred tax asset balance, we will record and charge a greater valuation allowance to income tax expense. Failure to achieve projected levels of profitability could lead to a write down in the deferred tax asset if the recovery period becomes uncertain or longer than expected and could also lead to the expiration of the deferred tax asset between now and 2029, either of which would adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Our actual results of operations could differ from estimates used to prepare our financial statements. In preparing our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our management often must make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider the regulatory accounting policy to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments, and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved. Regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators to be reflected in the financial statements. Their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets will be written off as a charge in current period earnings. Risks Related to Our Acquisition Strategy We face a variety of risks associated with acquiring and integrating new business operations. The growth and success of our business will depend to a great extent on our ability to acquire new assets or business operations and to integrate the operations of businesses that we have recently acquired, including the Ohio Companies, as well as, those that we may acquire in the future. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to: • identify suitable acquisition candidates or opportunities, • detect, through due diligence, investigation, all actual and potential problems that may exist in the operations or financial condition of an acquisition candidate, • acquire assets or business operations on commercially acceptable terms, • effectively integrate the operations of any acquired assets or businesses with our existing operations, 14 Table of Contents • manage effectively the combined operations of the acquired businesses, • achieve our operating and growth strategies with respect to the acquired assets or businesses, • reduce our overall selling, general, and administrative expenses associated with the acquired assets or businesses, or • comply with the internal control requirements of Section 404 as a result of an acquisition. The integration of the management, personnel, operations, products, services, technologies, and facilities of Orwell, NEO or any businesses that we acquire in the future could involve unforeseen difficulties. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing businesses, distract our management and employees, and increase our expenses, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. To the extent we are successful in making an acquisition, we may face a number of related risks. Any acquisition may involve a number of risks, including the assumption of material liabilities, the terms and conditions of any state or federal regulatory approvals required for an acquisition, the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of acquired operations, difficulties in the integration and retention of employees and difficulties in the integration of different cultures and practices, as well as in the integration of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations. The failure to make and integrate acquisitions successfully, including the Ohio Companies, could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Subsequent to the consummation of an acquisition, we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment charges or other charges that could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price. We recently acquired our Ohio operations and are in the process of exploring potential acquisitions. There could be material issues present inside a particular target business that are not uncovered in the course of due diligence performed prior to the acquisition, and there could be factors outside of the target business and outside of our control that later arise. As a result of these factors, after an acquisition is completed, we may be forced to write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations or incur impairment or other charges relating to an evaluation of goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets that could result in our reporting losses. In some acquisitions, goodwill is a significant portion of the purchase price, increasing the losses we would incur if such write-downs or write-offs occurred. In addition, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is limited. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay dividends at our current monthly dividend rate or at all. In particular, our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend upon, among other things, our future earnings, cash requirements, state ring fencing provisions, and covenants under our existing credit facility and any future credit agreements to which we may be a party. In addition, acquisitions funded by the issuance of our common stock, such as our acquisitions of Orwell and NEO, increase the number of our shares outstanding and may make it more difficult to continue dividends at our current rate. Like other small-cap companies, the price of our common stock can be volatile due to its relatively low trading volume, and sales of shares by our directors and officers could cause decreases in price. Our directors and officers own a significant interest in the Company and could limit new shareholders’ influence on corporate decisions. As a smaller public company, our common stock typically has a lower trading volume than Fortune 500 companies and other larger public companies. As of March 30, 2011, our average daily volume for 2011 was 20,978 shares per day. This low trading volume may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. Our directors and officers control 26.4% of our outstanding shares, which contributes to our low public float, and sales by those individuals could be perceived unfavorably in the market and adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock. Also, Mr. Osborne has pledged his stock to secure various debts. If there was a default on one or more of these obligations, the pledgees may seek to sell Mr. Osborne’s shares, which could adversely affect our stock prices. Accordingly, our directors and officers possess a significant influence on all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders including the election of the members of our board. The interests of these shareholders may not always coincide with our corporate interests or the interests of other shareholders, and they may act in a manner with which you may not agree or that may not be in the best interests of our other shareholders. Also, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of preventing or discouraging 15 Table of Contents transactions involving an actual or a potential change of control of the Company, regardless of whether a premium is offered over then current market prices. The possible issuance of future series of preferred stock could adversely affect the holders of our common stock. Pursuant to our articles of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued preferred stock and to issue those shares without any further action or vote by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. These adverse effects could include subordination to preferred shareholders in the payment of dividends and upon our liquidation and dissolution, and the use of preferred stock as an anti-takeover measure, which could impede a change in control that is otherwise in the interests of holders of our common stock. Our charter documents and Ohio law, as well as certain utility laws and regulations, may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations and state utility laws and regulations, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our charter documents do not permit cumulative voting, allow the removal of directors only for cause, and establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings. Additionally, Ohio corporate law provides that certain notice and informational filings and special shareholder meeting and voting procedures must be followed prior to consummation of a proposed “control share acquisition” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. Assuming compliance with the prescribed notice and information filings, a proposed control share acquisition may be made only if, at a special meeting of shareholders, the acquisition is approved by both a majority of our voting power represented at the meeting and a majority of the voting power remaining after excluding the combined voting of the “interested shares,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. Some takeover attempts may even be subject to approval by the Ohio Division of Securities or PUCO. The application of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The value of our common stock may decline significantly if we do not maintain our listing on the NYSE Amex Equities stock exchange. In addition to federal and state regulation of our utility operations and regulation by the SEC, we are subject to the listing requirements of NYSE Amex. NYSE Amex rules contain requirements with respect to corporate governance, communications with shareholders, the trading price of shares of our common stock and various other matters. We believe we are in compliance with NYSE Amex listing requirements, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet those listing requirements in the future. If we fail to comply with listing requirements, NYSE Amex could de-list our stock. If our stock was de-listed from NYSE Amex, our shares would likely trade in the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board, but the ability of our shareholders to sell our stock could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. Further, because of the additional regulatory burdens imposed upon broker-dealers with respect to de-listed companies, delisting could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our stock, further limiting the liquidity of our shares. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the trading price, liquidity, value and marketability of our stock. Organization, Structure and Management Risks Our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that may reduce our flexibility, and adversely affect our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. The terms of our credit facilities impose significant restrictions on our ability and, in some cases, the ability of our subsidiaries, to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, including: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities, • requiring us to meet certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate, 16 Table of Contents • limiting our ability to sell assets, make investments or acquire assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies, • limiting our ability to repurchase or redeem our stock or enter into transactions with our shareholders or affiliates, and • limiting our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness or contingent obligations or obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities. These covenants place constraints on our business and may adversely affect our growth, business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. Our failure to comply with any of the financial covenants in the credit facilities may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the debt under the credit facilities or other agreements we may enter into from time to time that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If this occurs, there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance or otherwise repay such indebtedness, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. Our primary assets are our operating subsidiaries, and there are limits on our ability to obtain revenue from those subsidiaries, which may limit our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. We are a holding company with no direct operations and our principal assets are the equity securities of our subsidiary utilities. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for our cash flows, thus our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and finance acquisitions depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to pay upstream dividends to us. Our Ohio subsidiaries have been unable to pay a dividend to us since May 2010. Further, our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us, and although they are wholly-owned and controlled by us, our ability to obtain distributions from them by way of dividends, interest or other payments (including intercompany loans) is subject to restrictions imposed by their term loans and credit facilities (under which they are borrowers and we are a guarantor). For example, • We may cause our Montana, Wyoming, North Carolina and Maine operating subsidiaries to pay a dividend only if the dividend, when combined with dividends over the previous five years, would not exceed 75% of their net income over those years, • We may cause NEO, Great Plains and GPL to distribute dividends to us only if their consolidated net worth, after payment of the dividend, is no less than $1,815,000 as positively increased by 100% of net income as of the end of each fiscal quarter and year. Additionally, as a condition to approving our holding company reorganization, the MPSC required that we stipulate to ring-fencing restrictions under which our Montana, Wyoming, North Carolina and Maine operating subsidiaries must meet certain notice and financial requirements prior to paying dividends that are above certain financial thresholds or irregularly timed. Similar ring-fencing provisions were recently approved by the WPSC as well. These dividend restrictions, in addition to other financial covenants contained in the credit facilities and ring-fencing restrictions, place constraints on our business and may adversely affect our cash flow, liquidity and financial condition as well as our ability to finance acquisitions or pay dividends. Further, we may be required to comply with additional covenants. Failure to comply with financial covenants may result in the acceleration of the debt and foreclosure of our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. For further details on the financial covenants contained in the credit facilities, see “Restrictions on Payment of Dividends” on page 17 of this annual report. The Wyoming Public Service Commission may assert jurisdiction over Gas Natural’s activities unexpectedly, which could hinder, delay or prevent us from pursuing acquisitions and other transactions that are important to our short term and long term financial condition and growth. We obtained the approval of the WPSC for our holding company reorganization in October 2008, but in connection with its approval of our acquisition of the Ohio Companies, the WPSC issued an order asserting jurisdiction over Gas Natural as a public utility in Wyoming and requested that ring-fencing measures be created and implemented. We requested rehearing of that order to clarify the scope of the jurisdiction WPSC seeks to assert. Our request was granted and in an open meeting the WPSC approved ring-fencing measures as well as this offering, but as of this date no final appealable order has been issued with respect to jurisdiction. Because the jurisdictional issue remains unresolved, we cannot predict whether or when the WPSC will assert jurisdiction over us in the future, including activities that take place at the holding company level. If the WPSC were to assert jurisdiction over us with respect to a potential acquisition, refinancing of debt or other significant transaction and deny a request by us for exemption with respect to the transaction, it could delay, hinder or prevent us from completing the transaction, negatively impacting our financial condition, results of operations and growth. In acquiring our Ohio operations, we guaranteed $20.5 million of their debt, $7.7 million of which matured and was repaid in November 2010. The remaining debt could limit our flexibility with other financial covenants and could materially adversely affect our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents When we acquired our Ohio operations, we guaranteed approximately $20.5 million of the acquired companies’ debt, $7.7 million of which matured and was repaid in November 2010. Richard M. Osborne, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, guaranteed substantially all of the third party debt of our Ohio Companies. Our debt service requirements have increased dramatically as a result of the acquisition. This additional debt has made us more levered on a consolidated basis. Our debt may adversely affect our ability to respond to adverse changes in economic, business or market conditions. For example: • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities, and • covenants relating to our debt may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, payment of dividends, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities. The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations under our credit facilities in the short and long term. Further, we are seeking to extend or refinance our short term debt, but there can be no assurance we will be able to do so. Our failure to comply with any financial covenants, pay our debt service requirements and extend or refinance our debt may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the debt under our debt facilities or other agreements that we may enter into from time to time that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If this occurs, there can be no assurance that we would be able to extend or refinance such debt, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. Our performance depends substantially on the performance of our executive officers and other key personnel and the ability of our management team to fully implement our business strategy. The success of our business depends on our ability to attract, train, retain, and motivate high quality personnel, especially highly qualified managerial personnel. Poor execution in the performance of our management team or the loss of services of key executive officers or personnel could impair our ability to successfully operate the Company and to acquire and integrate new business operations, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have entered into a limited liability operating agreement with third parties to develop and operate oil, gas and mineral leasehold estates, which exposes us to the risk associated with oil, gas and mineral exploration as well as the risks inherent in relying upon third parties in business ventures and we may enter into similar agreements in the future. We depend upon the performance of third party participants in endeavors such as Kykuit, and their performance of their obligations to us are outside our control. If these parties do not meet or satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, the performance and success of endeavors such as Kykuit may be adversely affected. If third parties to operating agreements and similar agreements are unable to meet their obligations we may be forced to undertake the obligations ourselves or incur additional expenses in order to have some other party perform such obligations. We may also be required to enforce our rights that may cause disputes among third parties and us. If any of these events occur, they may adversely impact us, our financial performance and results of operations. We have entered into various transactions in which some of our directors have a financial interest, and stockholders and potential investors in Gas Natural may not value these transactions in the same manner as our board. We have entered into agreements and transactions in which our directors have a financial interest. For example, Richard M. Osborne, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, owned nearly all of the stock of the Ohio companies we acquired in January 2010. The Ohio Companies are party to various leases, gas sales, transportation and metering agreements and other arrangements with entities owned and controlled by Mr. Osborne. The Ohio Companies are dependent upon Mr. Osborne’s pipeline company, Cobra Pipeline Co., Ltd., to transport gas to some of their customers. In the future we may enter into other additional related party transactions on a case by case basis. For more information on our related party transactions, see “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions” in our Definitive Proxy Statement filed with the SEC May 27, 2010. 