Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a substantial degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should give careful consideration to the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this report. The following risk factors, however, may not reflect all of the risks associated with our business or an investment in our common stock. Our results of operations could fluctuate due to a variety of factors outside of our control, including the following: • Fluctuating energy commodity prices; • The possibility that regulators may not permit us to pass through all of our increased costs to our customers; • Changes in general economic conditions in the United States and changes in the industries in which we conduct business; • Our business and that of our subsidiaries in all segments is temperature-sensitive. In any given period, sales volumes reflect the impact of weather, in addition to other factors; • Changes in federal or state laws and regulations to which we are subject, including tax, environmental, and employment laws and regulations; • The impact of the FERC and state public service commission statutes, regulations, and actions, including allowed rates of return, and the resolution of other regulatory matters; 7 Table of Contents • Our ability to obtain governmental and regulatory approval of various expansion or other projects; • The costs and effects of legal and administrative claims and proceedings against us or our subsidiaries; • Conditions of the capital markets we utilize to access capital; • The ability to raise capital in a cost-effective way; • The ability to meet financial covenants imposed by lenders; • The effect of changes in accounting policies, if any; • The ability to manage our growth; • The ability to control costs; • The ability of each business unit to successfully implement key systems, such as service delivery systems; • Our ability to develop expanded markets and product offerings and our ability to maintain existing markets; • The ability of customers of the energy marketing and trading business to obtain financing for various projects; • The ability of customers of the energy marketing and trading business to obtain governmental and regulatory approval of various projects; • Future utilization of pipeline capacity, which can depend on energy prices, competition from alternative fuels, the general level of natural gas and propane demand, decisions by customers not to renew expiring natural gas contracts, and weather conditions; • Global and domestic economic repercussions from terrorist activities and the government’s response thereto; and • Disruptions to natural gas supplies or prices caused by man-made or natural disasters, such as tropical storms or hurricanes. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state, and local regulatory agencies, which significantly influence our operating environment and may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers. We are required to have numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. FERC, state and federal environmental agencies, and state public service commissions regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, customer service, and the rates that we can charge customers. We believe that we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals, and certificates for our existing operations. However, we are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Legislative and regulatory initiatives, at both the federal and state levels, are designed to promote competition. Changes in the gas industry have allowed certain customers to negotiate gas purchases directly with producers or brokers. Although open access in the gas industry has not had a negative impact on the earnings or cash flow of our regulated segment to date, we may lose market share or our profit margins may decline in the future if we are unable to remain competitive in this market. Our regulated natural gas and our discontinued propane vapor operations follow Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 71, “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation,” (“SFAS No. 71”) and our financial statements reflect the effects of the different rate-making principles followed by the various jurisdictions regulating our business. The application of SFAS No. 71 can result in the regulated segment of our business recording costs that have been or are expected to be allowed in the ratemaking process in a period different from the period in which the costs would be charged to expense by an unregulated enterprise. Additionally, regulators can impose liabilities upon our regulated business segment for amounts previously collected from customers and for amounts that are expected to be refunded to customers. Although we currently do not anticipate the occurrence of any circumstances or events that would cause our natural gas operations to discontinue the 8 Table of Contents application of SFAS No. 71, the accounting impact of such an event would be an extraordinary, non-cash charge to operations that could be material to our financial position and results of operations. Our business and that of our subsidiaries in all segments is temperature-sensitive. In any given period, sales volumes reflect the impact of weather, in addition to other factors. Colder temperatures generally result in increased sales, while our results of operations can be adversely affected by milder weather. We anticipate that this sensitivity to seasonal and other weather conditions will continue to be reflected in our sales volumes in future periods. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business and changing interest rates and market conditions could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of natural gas. In order to mitigate the risk of market price volatility related to firm commitments to purchase or sell natural gas, from time to time we have entered into hedging arrangements. We may use such arrangements to protect profit margins on future obligations to deliver gas at a fixed price, or to protect against adverse effects of potential market price declines on future obligations to purchase gas at fixed prices. We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. We use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. Despite the fact that the majority of trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the credit rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, resulting in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase our cost of operations, impact our business plans, or expose us to environmental liabilities. Environmental regulations that may affect our present and future operations include regulation of air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital expenditures or operating costs. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections, and other approvals. Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. We cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. We may be a responsible party for environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body in the future. If that occurs, we cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. We cannot be sure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We will face a variety of risks associated with acquiring and integrating new business operations. The growth and success of our business will depend to a great extent on our ability to acquire new assets or business operations and to integrate the operations of businesses that we may acquire in the future. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to: • Identify suitable acquisition candidates or opportunities; • Acquire assets or business operations on commercially acceptable terms; • Effectively integrate the operations of any acquired assets or businesses with our existing operations; • Manage effectively the combined operations of the acquired businesses; • Achieve our operating and growth strategies with respect to the acquired assets or businesses; or • Reduce our overall selling, general, and administrative expenses associated with the acquired assets or businesses. 9 Table of Contents The integration of the management, personnel, operations, products, services, technologies, and facilities of any businesses that we acquire in the future could involve unforeseen difficulties. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing businesses, distract our management and employees, and increase our expenses, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our performance depends substantially on the performance of our executive officers and other key personnel. The success of our business in the future will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain, and motivate high quality personnel, especially highly qualified managerial personnel. The loss of services of key executive officers or personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, it is expected that beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ending June 30, 2008, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. The internal control report must contain (i) a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (ii) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, (iii) management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective, and (iv) beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2009, a statement that our independent auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting. In order to achieve compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act within the prescribed period, we have initiated a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which will be both costly and challenging. In this regard, management has dedicated internal resources and will engage outside consultants if necessary. The project team will adopt a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented, and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. There is a risk that neither we nor our independent auditors will be able to conclude the attestation expected at June 30, 2009 that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. During the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadlines imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could be adversely affected. Our actual results of operations could differ from estimates used to prepare our financial statements. In preparing our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our management often must make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider the following accounting policies to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments, and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved: • Regulatory Accounting — Regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators to be reflected in the financial statements. Their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets will be written off as a charge in current period earnings. 10 Table of Contents • Derivative Accounting — Derivative accounting requires evaluation of rules that are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Our evaluation of these rules, as they apply to our contracts, will determine whether we use accrual accounting or fair value (mark-to-market) accounting. Mark-to-market accounting requires us to record changes in fair value in earnings or, if certain hedge accounting criteria are met, in common stock equity (as a component of other comprehensive income (loss)). Events in the energy markets that are beyond our control may have negative impacts on our business. For example, the energy crisis in California during the summer of 2001, the bankruptcy filing by Enron Corporation, and investigations by governmental authorities into energy trading activities, greatly increased the amount of public and regulatory scrutiny of companies generally in the regulated and unregulated utility businesses. The capital markets and credit ratings agencies also have increased their level of scrutiny. We believe that we are complying with all applicable laws, but it is difficult to predict or control what effect these or related issues may have on our business or our access to the capital markets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 