Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a substantial degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should give careful consideration to the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this report. The following risk factors, however, may not reflect all of the risks associated with our business or an investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to comprehensive regulation by federal, state and local regulatory agencies that impact the rates we are able to charge, our costs and profitability. The MPSC, WPSC, NCUC, MPUC, PUCO, PAPUC and FERC regulate our rates, service area, adequacy of service and safety standards. These authorities regulate many aspects of our distribution operations, including the rates that we may charge customers, the terms of service to our customers, construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety and the rate of return that we are allowed to realize. Our ability to obtain rate increases and rate supplements to maintain the current rate of return depends upon regulatory discretion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or continue to receive the current authorized rates of return. Our gas purchase practices are subject to an annual review by state regulatory agencies which could impact our earnings and cash flow. The regulatory agencies that oversee our utility operations may review retrospectively our purchases of natural gas on an annual basis. The purpose of these annual reviews is to reconcile the differences, if any, between the amount we paid for natural gas and the amount our customers paid for natural gas. If any costs are disallowed in this review process, these disallowed costs would be expensed in the cost of gas but would not be recovered by us in the rates charged to our customers. The various state regulatory agencies’ reviews of our gas purchase practices creates the potential for the disallowance of our recovery through the gas cost recovery pricing mechanism. Significant disallowances could affect our earnings and cash flow. Operational issues beyond our control could have an adverse effect on our business. We operate in geographically dispersed areas. Our ability to provide natural gas depends both on our own operations and facilities and those of third parties, including local gas producers and natural gas pipeline operators from whom we receive our natural gas supply. The loss of use or destruction of our facilities or the facilities of third parties due to extreme weather conditions, breakdowns, war, acts of terrorism or other occurrences could greatly reduce potential earnings and cash flows and increase our costs of repairs and replacement of assets. Our losses may not be fully recoverable through insurance or customer rates. 16 Table of Contents Storing and transporting natural gas involves inherent risks that could cause us to incur significant financial losses. There are inherent hazards and operation risks in gas distribution activities, such as leaks, accidental explosions and mechanical problems that could cause the loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. These activities may subject us to litigation and administrative proceedings that could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines or penalties against us. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these events is not fully covered by insurance, they could adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Our earnings and cash flow are sensitive to decreases in customer consumption resulting from warmer than normal temperatures and customer conservation. Our gas sales revenue is generated primarily through the sale and delivery of natural gas to residential and commercial customers who use natural gas mainly for space heating. Consequently, temperatures have a significant impact on sales and revenues. Given the impact of weather on our utility operations, our business is a seasonal business. Most of our gas sales revenue is generated in the first and fourth quarters of our year (January 1 to March 31 and October 1 to December 31) as we typically experience losses in the non-heating season, which occurs in the second and third quarters of our year (April 1 to September 30). In addition, the average annual natural gas consumption of customers has been decreasing because, among other things, new homes and appliances are typically more energy efficient than older homes and appliances, and customers appear to be continuing a pattern of conserving energy by utilizing energy efficient heating systems, insulation, alternative energy sources, and other energy savings devices and techniques. A mild winter, as well as continued or increased conservation, in any of our service areas can have a significant adverse impact on demand for natural gas and, consequently, earnings and cash flow. The increased cost of purchasing natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly could adversely impact our earnings and cash flow. The rates we are permitted to charge allow us to recover our cost of purchasing natural gas. In general, the various regulatory agencies allow us to recover the costs of natural gas purchased for customers on a dollar-for-dollar basis (in the absence of disallowances), without a profit component. We periodically adjust customer rates for increases and decreases in the cost of gas purchased by us for sale to our customers. Under the regulatory body-approved gas cost recovery pricing mechanisms, the gas commodity charge portion of gas rates we charge to our customers may be adjusted upward on a periodic basis. If the cost of purchasing natural gas increases and we are unable to recover these costs from our customers, we may incur increased costs associated with lost and unaccounted for gas and higher working capital requirements. In addition, any increases in the cost of purchasing natural gas may result in higher customer bad debt expense for uncollectible accounts and reduced sales volume and related margins due to lower customer consumption. The loss of a major commercial or industrial gas customer to which we provide natural gas may negatively impact our profitability. In 2009, we earned 6.65% of our operating margin by providing gas marketing services to unregulated commercial and industrial gas customers. External factors over which we have no control, such as the weather and economic conditions, can significantly impact the amount of gas consumed by our major commercial and industrial customers. The loss of a major customer could have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flow. Volatility in the price of natural gas could result in customers switching to alternative energy sources which could reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flow. The market price of alternative energy sources such as coal, electricity, oil and steam is a competitive factor affecting the demand for our gas distribution services. Our customers may have or may acquire the capacity to use 17 Table of Contents one or more of the alternative energy sources if the price of natural gas and our distribution services increase significantly. Natural gas has typically been less expensive than these alternative energy sources. However, if natural gas prices increase significantly, some of these alternative energy sources may become more economical or more attractive than natural gas which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. The gas industry is intensely competitive and competition has increased in recent years as a result of changes in the price negotiation process within the supply and distribution chain of the gas industry, both of which could negatively impact earnings. We compete with companies from various regions of the United States and may compete with foreign companies for domestic sales, many of whom are larger and have greater financial, technological, human and other resources. Additionally, legislative and regulatory initiatives, at both the federal and state levels, are designed to promote competition. These challenges have been compounded by changes in the gas industry that have allowed certain customers to negotiate gas purchases directly with producers or brokers. We could lose market share or our profit margins may decline in the future if we are unable to remain competitive. Earnings and cash flow may be adversely affected by downturns in the economy. Our operations are affected by the conditions and overall strength of the national, regional and local economies, which impact the amount of residential and industrial growth and actual gas consumption in our service territories. Our commercial customers use natural gas in the production of their products. During economic downturns, these customers may see a decrease in demand for their products, which in turn may lead to a decrease in the amount of natural gas they require for production. In addition, during periods of slow or little economic growth, energy conservation efforts often increase and the amount of uncollectible customer accounts increases. These factors may reduce earnings and cash flow. Changes in the regulatory environment and events in the energy markets that are beyond our control may reduce our earnings and limit our access to capital markets. As a result of the energy crisis in California during 2000 and 2001, the bankruptcy of some energy companies, investigations by governmental authorities into energy trading activities, the collapse in market values of energy companies, the downgrading by rating agencies of a large number of companies in the energy sector and the recent volatility of natural gas prices in North America, companies in regulated and unregulated energy businesses have generally been under increased scrutiny by regulators, participants in the capital markets and debt rating agencies. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the Securities and Exchange Commission could enact new accounting standards that could impact the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. We cannot predict or control what effect these types of events, or future actions of regulatory agencies or others in response to such events, may have on our earnings or access to the capital markets. We acquired interests in our natural gas wells by quitclaim deed and cannot guarantee that we hold clear title to our interests or that our interests will not be challenged in the future. We own an average 48% working interest (average 41% net revenue interest) in 160 natural gas producing wells, which provide our marketing and production operations a partial natural hedge when market prices of natural gas are greater than the cost of production. The gas production from these wells provided approximately 18.2% of the volume requirements for EWR’s Montana market for the year ended December 31, 2009. We acquired our interests in the wells by quitclaim deed conveying interests in certain oil and gas leases for the wells. Because the sellers conveyed their interests by quitclaim, we received no warranty or representation from them that they owned their interests free and clear from adverse claims by third parties or other title defects. We have no title insurance, guaranty or warranty for our interests in the wells. Further, the wells may be subject to prior, unregistered agreements, or transfers which have not been recorded. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we hold clear title to our interests or that our interests will not be challenged in the future. If our interests were challenged, expenses for curative title work, litigation or other dispute resolution mechanisms may be incurred. Loss of our interests would reduce or eliminate our production operations 18 Table of Contents and reduce or eliminate the partial natural hedge that our marketing and production subsidiary currently enjoys as a result of our production capabilities. For all of these reasons, a challenge to our ownership could negatively impact our earnings, profits and results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404) contains provisions requiring an annual assessment by management, as of the end of the fiscal year, of the effectiveness of internal control for financial reporting, as well as attestation and reporting by independent auditors on management’s assessment as well as other control-related matters. Beginning with the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, we began complying with Section 404 and finished a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Our auditors are not yet required to opine on our internal controls. Compliance with Section 404 is both costly and challenging. Going forward, there is a risk that neither we nor our independent auditors will be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. Further, during the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadlines imposed under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could be adversely affected. Our actual results of operations could differ from estimates used to prepare our financial statements. In preparing our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our management often must make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider the regulatory accounting policy to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments, and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved. Regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators to be reflected in the financial statements. Their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets will be written off as a charge in current period earnings. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase our cost of operations, impact our business plans and expose us to environmental liabilities. Environmental regulations that may affect our present and future operations include regulation of air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital expenditures and operating costs. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. We cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. We may be a responsible party for environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body in the future. If that occurs, we cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all potentially responsible parties. We cannot be sure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations intended to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We have a net deferred tax asset of 14.0 million and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient future taxable income to realize a significant portion of this net deferred tax asset, which could lead to a writedown (or even a loss) of the net deferred tax asset and adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We have a net deferred tax asset of $14.0 million at December 31, 2009. The net deferred tax asset is the result of our recent acquisitions of Frontier Natural Gas and Bangor Gas Company. We may continue to depreciate approximately $82.0 million of their capital assets using the useful lives and rates employed by those companies, resulting in a potential future federal and state income tax benefit of approximately $19.1 million over a 20 year period using applicable federal and state income tax rates. Under Internal Revenue Code Section 382, our ability to recognize tax deductions as a result of this tax benefit will be limited during the first 5 years following the acquisitions. Following ASC 740, our balance sheet at December 31, 2008 reflects a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $19.0 million, offset by a valuation allowance of approximately $7.5 million, resulting in a net deferred tax asset associated with the acquisition of approximately $11.5 million. The excess of the net deferred tax assets received in the transactions over their respective purchase prices has been reflected as an extraordinary gain of approximately $6.8 million on our income statement for the year ended June 30, 2008 in accordance with the provisions of ASC 805. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we conducted a study of the deferred tax asset and valuation allowance, and based on our updated earnings projections and more complete data from the seller’s tax returns, we determined that $2.8 million of the valuation allowance related to federal taxes is no longer needed but that the state portion should be increased by $400,000. Accordingly, we reduced the valuation allowance to approximately $5.1 million. In addition, we increased the gross deferred tax asset to $19.1 million. As a result, the net deferred tax asset increased to approximately $14.0 million at December 31, 2009. Included in the results of our Corporate and Other segment for the year ended December 31, 2009 is the income tax benefit of approximately $2.8 million related to the elimination of the federal portion of the valuation allowance. An income tax expense of $300,000 resulting from the increase in the state portion of the valuation allowance partially offset by the increase in the gross deferred tax asset is included in the results of the Natural Gas Operations segment. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the $14.0 million net deferred tax asset over the next 20 years. Management will reevaluate the valuation allowance each year on completion of updated estimates of taxable income for future periods, and will further reduce the deferred tax asset by the new valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that we will not realize some portion or all of the recognized deferred tax assets. If the estimates indicate that we are unable to use all or a portion of the net deferred tax asset balance, we will record and charge a greater valuation allowance to income tax expense. Failure to achieve projected levels of profitability could lead to a write down in the deferred tax asset if the recovery period becomes uncertain or longer than expected and could also lead to the expiration of the deferred tax asset between now and 2029, either of which would adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Changes in the market price and transportation costs of natural gas could result in financial losses that would negatively impact our results of operations. We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of natural gas. We purchase and store gas for distribution later in the year. We also enter agreements to buy or sell gas at a fixed price. We may use such arrangements to protect profit margins on future obligations to deliver gas at a fixed price, or to attempt to protect against adverse effects of potential market price declines on future obligations to purchase gas at fixed prices. Further, we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by the counterparties to our supply agreements, which could have a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Acquisition Strategy We face a variety of risks associated with acquiring and integrating new business operations. The growth and success of our business will depend to a great extent on our ability to acquire new assets or business operations and to integrate the operations of businesses that we have recently acquired, including Orwell and NEO as well as those that we may acquire in the future. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to: • identify suitable acquisition candidates or opportunities, • acquire assets or business operations on commercially acceptable terms, • effectively integrate the operations of any acquired assets or businesses with our existing operations, • manage effectively the combined operations of the acquired businesses, • achieve our operating and growth strategies with respect to the acquired assets or businesses, • reduce our overall selling, general, and administrative expenses associated with the acquired assets or businesses, or • comply with the internal control requirements of Section 404 as a result of an acquisition. The integration of the management, personnel, operations, products, services, technologies, and facilities of Orwell, NEO or any businesses that we acquire in the future could involve unforeseen difficulties. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing businesses, distract our management and employees, and increase our expenses, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. To the extent we are successful in making an acquisition, we may be exposed to a number of risks. Any acquisition may involve a number of risks, including the assumption of material liabilities, the terms and conditions of any state or federal regulatory approvals required for an acquisition, the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of acquired operations, difficulties in the integration and retention of employees and difficulties in the integration of different cultures and practices, as well as in the integration of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations. The failure to make and integrate acquisitions successfully, including Orwell and NEO, could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Subsequent to the consummation of an acquisition, we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment charges or other charges that could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price. We recently acquired Orwell and NEO and are in the process of completing other potential acquisitions. There could be material issues present inside a particular target business that are not uncovered in the course of due diligence performed prior to the acquisition, and there could be factors outside of the target business and outside of our control that later arise. As a result of these factors, after an acquisition is complete we may be forced to write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations or incur impairment or other charges relating to an evaluation of goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets that could result in our reporting losses. In addition, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is limited. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay dividends at our current monthly dividend rate or at all. In particular, our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend upon, among other things, our future earnings, cash requirements and covenants under our existing credit facility and any future credit agreements to which we may be a party. In addition, acquisitions funded by the issuance of our common stock, such as our acquisitions of Orwell and 21 Table of Contents NEO, increase the number of our shares outstanding and may make it more difficult to continue dividends at our current rate. The possible issuance of future series of preferred stock could adversely affect the holders of our common stock. Pursuant to our articles of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued preferred stock and to issue those shares without any further action or vote by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. These adverse effects could include subordination to preferred shareholders in the payment of dividends and upon our liquidation and dissolution, and the use of preferred stock as an anti-takeover measure, which could impede a change in control that is otherwise in the interests of holders of our common stock. Organization, Structure and Management Risks Our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that may reduce our flexibility, and adversely affect our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. The terms of our credit facilities impose significant restrictions on our ability and, in some cases, the ability of our subsidiaries, to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, including: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities, • requiring us to meet certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate, • limiting our ability to sell assets, make investments or acquire assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies, • limiting our ability to repurchase or redeem our stock or enter into transactions with our shareholders or affiliates, and • limiting our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness or contingent obligations or obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities. These covenants place constraints on our business and may adversely affect our growth, business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. Our failure to comply with any of the financial covenants in the credit facilities may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the debt under the credit facilities or other agreements we may enter into from time to time that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If this occurs, there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance or otherwise repay such indebtedness, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. Our primary assets are our operating subsidiaries, and our subsidiaries’ credit facilities include financial covenants that limit our ability to obtain revenue from those subsidiaries, which may limit our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. We are a holding company with no direct operations and our principal assets are the equity securities of our subsidiary utilities. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for our cash flows, thus our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and finance acquisitions would be dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to pay upstream dividends to us. Further, our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us, and although they are wholly-owned and controlled by us, our ability to obtain distributions from them by way of dividends, interest or other payments (including intercompany loans) is subject to restrictions imposed by their term loans and credit facilities (under which they are borrowers and we are a guarantor). For example, 22 Table of Contents • We may cause our Montana, Wyoming, North Carolina and Maine operating subsidiaries to pay a dividend only if the dividend, when combined with dividends over the previous five years, would not exceed 75% of their net income over those years, • We may cause Orwell and Lightning Pipeline to distribute no more than 60% of Orwell’s net income to us during any fiscal year, and • We may cause NEO, Great Plains and GPL to distribute dividends to us only if their consolidated net worth, after payment of the dividend, is no less than $1,815,000 as positively increased by 100% of net income as of the end of each fiscal quarter and year. Additionally, as a condition to approving our holding company reorganization, the MPSC required that we stipulate to ring-fencing restrictions that require our Montana, Wyoming, North Carolina and Maine operating subsidiaries to meet certain notice and financial requirements prior to paying dividends that are above certain financial thresholds or irregularly timed. These dividend restrictions, in addition to other financial covenants contained in the credit facilities and ring-fencing restrictions, place constraints on our business and may adversely affect our cash flow, liquidity and financial condition as well as our ability to finance acquisitions or pay dividends . Further, we may be required to comply with additional covenants. Failure to comply with financial covenants may result in the acceleration of the debt and foreclosure of our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. For further details on the financial covenants contained in the credit facilities, see “Restrictions on Payment of Dividends” on page 28 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In acquiring the Ohio Companies, we incurred $20.9 million in additional debt, $8.2 million of which will mature in the last quarter of 2010. Our short term debt and high degree of leverage limit our flexibility in managing our business, and our inability to satisfy debts and comply with other financial covenants in the short or long term could materially and adversely affect our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. When we acquired the Ohio Companies, we guaranteed approximately $20.9 million of the Ohio companies’ debt. Richard Osborne guarantees substantially all of the third party debt of the Ohio Companies. Our debt service requirements have increased dramatically as a result of the acquisition. In addition, approximately $8.2 million of this debt will mature during the last quarter of 2010. This additional debt has made us more leveraged on a consolidated basis. Our high degree of leverage may adversely affect our ability to respond to adverse changes in economic, business or market conditions. For example: • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities, and • covenants relating to our debt may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities. The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations under our credit facilities in the short and long term. Further, our failure to comply with the financial covenants, pay our debt service requirements and pay or refinance our short term debt may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the debt under our credit facilities or other agreements that we may enter into from time to time that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If this occurs, there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance or otherwise repay such debt, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Our performance depends substantially on the performance of our executive officers and other key personnel and the ability of our new management team to fully implement our business strategy. The success of our business depends on our ability to attract, train, retain, and motivate high quality personnel, especially highly qualified managerial personnel. Poor execution in the transition of our management team or the loss of services of key executive officers or personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During fiscal 2008, new chief executive, operating and financial officers joined our management team. Because of these recent changes, our management team has not worked together as a group for an extended period of time and may not work together effectively to successfully implement our business strategy. If our new management team is unable to accomplish our business objectives, our ability to successfully operate the Company and acquire and integrate new business operations may be severely impaired. We have entered a limited liability operating agreement with third parties to develop and operate oil, gas and mineral leasehold estates, which exposes us to the risk associated with oil, gas and mineral exploration as well as the risks inherent in relying upon third parties in business ventures and we may enter into similar agreements in the future. Through our subsidiary Energy West Resources, Inc. (EWR), we have entered an operating agreement with various third parties regarding Kykuit Resources, LLC (Kykuit), a developer and operator of oil, gas and mineral leasehold estates located in Montana. Through EWR, we own 21.98% of the membership interests of Kykuit, and because Kykuit’s primary purpose is oil, gas and mineral exploration, our investment in Kykuit is subject to the risks associated with that business, including the risk that little or no oil, gas or minerals will be found. We have a net investment after undistributed losses of approximately $800,000 in Kykuit, and we may be required to invest additional amounts of up to approximately $1.5 million. Whether or not we may be required to invest additional funds will depend on the success, or lack thereof, of Kykuit in its initial drilling. We are entitled under the Kykuit operating agreement, as amended and restated, to exercise reasonable discretion to cease further investments in the event certain initial exploratory drilling efforts are unsuccessful. We depend upon the performance of third party participants in endeavors such as Kykuit, and their performance of their obligations to us are outside our control. If these parties do not meet or satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, the performance and success of endeavors such as Kykuit may be adversely affected. If third parties to operating agreements and similar agreements are unable to meet their obligations we may be forced to undertake the obligations ourselves or incur additional expenses in order to have some other party perform such obligations. We may also be required to enforce our rights that may cause disputes among third parties and us. If any of these events occur, they may adversely impact us, our financial performance and results of operations. We have entered into certain transactions with persons who are our directors and may enter into additional transactions in the future. Richard M. Osborne, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, owns an interest in Kykuit, a party to the joint venture arrangement involving EWR. John D. Oil and Gas Company, a publicly-held oil and gas exploration company of which Mr. Osborne is the chairman of the board and chief executive officer, our director and chief financial officer Thomas J. Smith is a director and our director Gregory J. Osborne is president, is an owner and the managing member of Kykuit. Additionally, we lease office space in Mentor, Ohio from OsAir, Inc., of which Richard M. Osborne is the president and chief executive officer. Mr. Osborne also owned all or nearly all of the outstanding equity interests of each of Orwell, Lightning Pipeline, NEO, Great Plains and GPL, which we acquired on January 5, 2010 and was the largest acquisition in our history, and Lightning Pipeline is currently indebted to Mr. Osborne in the amount of approximately $2.0 million under a 6% promissory note that matures in 2014. Finally, NEO and Orwell are party to various gas sales, transportation and metering agreements with entities owned and controlled by Mr. Osborne. In the future, we may enter into additional transactions with our directors or entities controlled by our directors. We cannot assure you that our shareholders will view the benefits of these transactions in the same manner that we or our board of directors do. 24 Table of Contents 