Item 1A. RISK FACTORS – continued The loss of grantor trust status would have adverse tax consequences. Compliance with Section 646 of the Internal Revenue Code is integral to the level of distributions paid to the certificate holders. Should it be determined that we have violated the requirements of Section 646, the Trust would be taxed as a corporation versus a grantor trust. This would mean our income would be taxable upon our receipt and again upon receipt by the certificate holders. It is the Trustees’ opinion that the Trust has remained in compliance with the provisions of Section 646 since its election in 1988. The Trust terminates April 6, 2015. As previously reported, the termination date of the Trust is April 6, 2015. Accordingly, we remind certificate holders that there is remaining only one more regular quarterly distribution, which will be declared in the first quarter of 2015. While there will be some income allocated to the second quarter of 2015 (representing six days of business through April 6, 2015), it is expected that this amount will be nominal and will likely be included with the final distribution to certificate holders of record as of the termination date of the Trust, which will be made subsequent to the Trust’s termination date and upon completion of the wind-down process and final accounting. The final distribution will generally consist of the sum of the Trust’s net monies (essentially, total assets less liabilities and less properties) remaining in the hands of the Trustees (after paying and providing for all expenses and obligations incurred through the Trust’s termination and wind-down process), and the balance in the Principal Charges account, all of which are subject to the final accounting and approval of the Ramsey County District Court. Upon Trust termination, the shares will be cancelled and thereafter represent only the right to receive the final distribution. All other Trust properties will be conveyed to the reversioner upon the completion of the wind-down process without further payment or remuneration to the certificate holders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 