risk factors. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 2 Table of Contents Index to Form 10-K Annual Report for the Year ended October 31, 2010 Form 10-K Item Description Page Part I 1. Business 5 (a) General Development of Business 5 (b) Financial Information about Segments 5 (c) Narrative Description of Business 5 (d) Financial Information about Geographic Areas 7 (e) Available Information 7 (f) Other Matters 8 1A. Risk Factors 8 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 13 2. Properties 13 3. Legal Proceedings 15 4. (Reserved) 15 Part II 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 6. Selected Financial Data 17 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 40 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Consolidated Statements of Income 44 Consolidated Balance Sheets 45 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 47 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity 48 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 49 Note 2 - Acquisitions and Other Significant Transactions 59 Note 3 - Sale of Non-United States Accounts Receivable 60 Note 4 - Inventories 61 Note 5 - Net Assets Held for Sale 62 Note 6 - Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 62 Note 7 - Restructuring Charges 63 Note 8 - Significant Nonstrategic Timberland Transactions and Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities 65 Note 9 - Long-Term Debt 66 Note 10 - Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements 68 Note 11 - Stock-Based Compensation 70 Note 12 - Income Taxes 71 Note 13 - Retirement Plans and Postretirement Health Care and Life Insurance Benefits 73 Note 14 - Contingent Liabilities 80 Note 15 - Earnings Per Share 80 Note 16 - Equity Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Affiliates, Net of Tax and Net Income Attributable to Non-controlling Interests 82 Note 17 - Business Segment Information 83 Note 18 - Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 86 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 88 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 89 3 Table of Contents Form 10-K Item Description Page 9A. Controls and Procedures 89 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 91 9B. Other Information 92 Part III 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92 11. Executive Compensation 92 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 92 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 93 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 93 Part IV 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 93 Signatures 94 Schedules Schedule II 95 Exhibits Exhibits and Certifications 96 EX-10.CC EX-10.EE EX-10.FF EX-10.GG EX-21 EX-23 EX-31.1 EX-31.2 EX-32.1 EX-32.2 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS (a) General Development of Business We are a leading global producer of industrial packaging products and services with manufacturing facilities located in over 50 countries. We offer a comprehensive line of rigid industrial packaging products, such as steel, fibre and plastic drums, rigid intermediate bulk containers, closure systems for industrial packaging products, transit protection products, water bottles and reconditioned containers, and services such as container lifecycle management, blending, filling and other packaging services, logistics and warehousing. We are also a leading global producer of flexible intermediate bulk containers and North American provider of industrial and consumer multiwall bag products. We also produce containerboard and corrugated products for niche markets in North America. We sell timber to third parties from our timberland in the southeastern United States that we manage to maximize long-term value. We also own timberland in Canada that we do not actively manage. In addition, we sell, from time to time, timberland and special use land, which consists of surplus land, higher and better use (“HBU”) land, and development land. Our customers range from Fortune 500 companies to medium and small-sized companies in a cross section of industries. We were founded in 1877 in Cleveland, Ohio, as “Vanderwyst and Greif,” a cooperage shop co-founded by one of four Greif brothers. One year after our founding, the other three Greif brothers were invited to join the business, renamed Greif Bros. Company, making wooden barrels, casks and kegs to transport post-Civil War goods nationally and internationally. We later purchased nearly 300,000 acres of timberland to provide raw materials for our cooperage plants. We still own significant timber properties located in the southeastern United States and in Canada. In 1926, we incorporated as a Delaware corporation and made a public offering as The Greif Bros. Cooperage Corporation. In 1951, we moved our headquarters from Cleveland, Ohio to Delaware, Ohio, which is in the Columbus metro-area, where our corporate headquarters are currently located. Since the latter half of the 1900s, we have transitioned from our keg and barrel heading mills, stave mills and cooperage facilities to a global producer of industrial packaging products. Following our acquisition of Van Leer in 2001, a global steel and plastic drum manufacturer, we changed our name to Greif, Inc. Our fiscal year begins on November 1 and ends on October 31 of the following year. Any references in this Form 10-K to the years 2010, 2009 or 2008, or to any quarter of those years, relate to the fiscal year ending in that year. As used in this Form 10-K, the terms “Greif,” “Company”, “our company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Greif, Inc. and its subsidiaries. (b) Financial Information about Segments We operate in four business segments: Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services; Flexible Products & Services; Paper Packaging; and Land Management. Information related to each of these segments is included in Note 17 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. (c) Narrative Description of Business Products and Services In the Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services segment, we are a leading global provider of rigid industrial packaging products, including steel, fibre and plastic drums, rigid intermediate bulk containers, closure systems for industrial packaging products, transit protection products, water bottles and reconditioned containers, and services, such as container lifecycle management, blending, filling and other packaging services, logistics and warehousing. We sell our industrial packaging products to customers in industries such as chemicals, paints and pigments, food and beverage, petroleum, industrial coatings, agricultural, pharmaceutical and mineral, among others. In the Flexible Products & Services segment, we are a leading global producer of flexible intermediate bulk containers and a North American provider of industrial and consumer multiwall bag products. Our flexible intermediate bulk containers consist of a polypropylene-based woven fabric that is partly produced at our production sites, as well as sourced from strategic regional suppliers. Our flexible products are sold globally and service customers and market segments similar to those served by 5 Table of Contents our Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services segment. Additionally, our flexible products significantly expand our presence in the agricultural and food industries, among others. Our industrial and consumer multiwall bag products are used to ship a wide range of industrial and consumer products, such as seed, fertilizers, chemicals, concrete, flour, sugar, feed, pet foods, popcorn, charcoal and salt, primarily for the agricultural, chemical, building products and food industries. In the Paper Packaging segment, we sell containerboard, corrugated sheets and other corrugated products to customers in North America in industries such as packaging, automotive, food and building products. Our corrugated container products are used to ship such diverse products as home appliances, small machinery, grocery products, building products, automotive components, books and furniture, as well as numerous other applications. Operations related to our industrial and consumer multiwall bag products have been reclassified to our Flexible Products & Services segment. In the Land Management segment, we are focused on the active harvesting and regeneration of our United States timber properties to achieve sustainable long-term yields. While timber sales are subject to fluctuations, we seek to maintain a consistent cutting schedule, within the limits of market and weather conditions. We also sell, from time to time, timberland and special use land, which consists of surplus land, HBU land and development land. As of October 31, 2010, we owned approximately 267,150 acres of timber property in the southeastern United States and approximately 24,700 acres of timber property in Canada. Customers Due to the variety of our products, we have many customers buying different types of our products and due to the scope of our sales, no one customer is considered principal in our total operations. Backlog We supply a cross-section of industries, such as chemicals, food products, petroleum products, pharmaceuticals and metal products, and must make spot deliveries on a day-to-day basis as our products are required by our customers. We do not operate on a backlog to any significant extent and maintain only limited levels of finished goods. Many customers place their orders weekly for delivery during the week. Competition The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive with many participants. Although no single company dominates, we face significant competitors in each of our businesses. Our competitors include large vertically integrated companies as well as numerous smaller companies. The industries in which we compete are particularly sensitive to price fluctuations caused by shifts in industry capacity and other cyclical industry conditions. Other competitive factors include design, quality and service, with varying emphasis depending on product line. In both the rigid industrial packaging industry and flexible industrial packaging industry, we compete by offering a comprehensive line of products on a global basis. In the paper packaging industry, we compete by concentrating on providing value-added, higher-margin corrugated products to niche markets. In addition, over the past several years we have closed higher cost facilities and otherwise restructured our operations, which we believe have significantly improved our cost competitiveness. Compliance with Governmental Regulations Concerning Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, the protection of the environment, the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials and numerous other environmental laws and regulations. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to periodic environmental inspections and monitoring by governmental enforcement authorities. In addition, certain of our production facilities require environmental permits that are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Based on current information, we believe that the probable costs of the remediation of company-owned property will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe that we have adequately reserved for our liability for these matters as of October 31, 2010. 6 Table of Contents We do not believe that compliance with federal, state, local and international provisions, which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, has had or will have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures related to environmental control in 2011. Refer also to Item 7 of this Form 10-K and Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information concerning environmental expenses and cash expenditures for 2010, 2009 and 2008, and our reserves for environmental liabilities at October 31, 2010. Raw Materials Steel, resin and containerboard are the principal raw materials for the Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services segment, resin is the primary raw material for the Flexible Products & Services segment, and pulpwood, old corrugated containers for recycling and containerboard are the principal raw materials for the Paper Packaging segment. We satisfy most of our needs for these raw materials through purchases on the open market or under short-term and long-term supply agreements. All of these raw materials are purchased in highly competitive, price-sensitive markets, which have historically exhibited price, demand and supply cyclicality. From time to time, some of these raw materials have been in short supply at certain of our manufacturing facilities. In those situations, we ship the raw materials in short supply from one or more of our other facilities with sufficient supply to the facility or facilities experiencing the shortage. To date, raw material shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Research and Development While research and development projects are important to our continued growth, the amount expended in any year is not material in relation to our results of operations. Other Our businesses are not materially dependent upon patents, trademarks, licenses or franchises. No material portion of our businesses is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of a governmental agency or authority. The businesses of our segments are not seasonal to any material extent. Employees As of October 31, 2010, we had approximately 12,250 full time employees, which has increased significantly from the prior year as a result of twelve acquisitions completed during 2010, particularly in the Flexible Products & Services segment. A significant number of our full time employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our employee relations are generally good. (d) Financial Information about Geographic Areas Our operations are located in North and South America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the Asia Pacific region. Information related to each of these areas is included in Note 17 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Refer to Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, included in Item 7A of this Form 10-K. (e) Available Information We maintain a website at www.greif.com. We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and make available, free of charge, on or through our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or Form 10-Q/A, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC. 7 Table of Contents Any of the materials we file with the SEC may also be read and/or copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the SEC’s Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. (f) Other Matters Our common equity securities are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbols GEF and GEF.B. Michael J. Gasser, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has timely certified to the NYSE that, at the date of the certification, he was unaware of any violation by our Company of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards. In addition, Mr. Gasser and Donald S. Huml, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, have provided certain certifications in this Form 10-K regarding the quality of our public disclosures. Refer to Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements contained in this Form 10-K may be “forward-looking” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our operating results to differ materially from those projected. The following factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual financial and/or operational performance. The Current and Future Challenging Global Economy may Adversely Affect Our Business. The current global economic downturn and any further economic decline in future reporting periods could negatively affect our business and results of operations. The volatility of the current economic climate makes it difficult for us to predict the complete impact of this slowdown on our business and results of operations. Due to these current economic conditions, our customers may face financial difficulties, the unavailability of or reduction in commercial credit, or both, that may result in decreased sales by and revenues to our company. Certain of our customers may cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection, which would reduce our cash flows and adversely impact our results of operations. Our customers that are financially viable and not experiencing economic distress may elect to reduce the volume of orders for our products in an effort to remain financially stable or as a result of the unavailability of commercial credit which would negatively affect our results of operations. We may also have difficulty accessing the global credit markets due to the tightening of commercial credit availability and the financial difficulties of our customers, which would result in decreased ability to fund capital-intensive strategic projects and our ongoing acquisition strategy. Further, we may experience challenges in forecasting revenues and operating results due to these global economic conditions. The difficulty in forecasting revenues and operating results may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the lenders under our Credit Agreement and other borrowing facilities described in Item 7 of this Form 10-K under “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Borrowing Arrangements” and the counterparties with whom we maintain interest rate swap agreements, cross-currency interest rate swaps, currency forward contracts and derivatives and other hedge agreements may be unable to perform their lending or payment obligations in whole or in part, or may cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection, which would negatively affect our cash flows and our results of operations. Historically, Our Business has been Sensitive to Changes in General Economic or Business Conditions. Our customers generally consist of other manufacturers and suppliers who purchase industrial packaging products and containerboard and related corrugated products for their own containment and shipping purposes. Because we supply a cross section of industries, such as chemicals, food products, petroleum products, pharmaceuticals, metal products, agricultural and agrichemical products, and have operations in many countries, demand for our products and services has historically corresponded to changes in general economic and business conditions of the industries and countries in which we operate. Accordingly, our financial performance is substantially dependent upon the general economic conditions existing in these industries and countries, and any prolonged or substantial economic downturn in the markets in which we operate, including the current economic downturn, could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Our Operations are Subject to Currency Exchange and Political Risks that could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We have operations in over 50 countries. As a result of our international operations, we are subject to certain risks that could disrupt our operations or force us to incur unanticipated costs. Our operating performance is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates by: • translations into United States dollars for financial reporting purposes of the assets and liabilities of our international operations conducted in local currencies; and • gains or losses from transactions conducted in currencies other than the operation’s functional currency. We are subject to various other risks associated with operating in international countries, such as the following: • political, social and economic instability; • war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism; • taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation; • changes in government policies and regulations; • imposition of limitations on conversions of currencies into United States dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by international subsidiaries; • imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by international subsidiaries; • hyperinflation in certain countries and the current threat of global deflation; and • impositions or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by non-United States governments. The Continuing Consolidation of Our Customer Base for Industrial Packaging, Containerboard and Corrugated Products, as well as the Continuing Consolidation of Our Suppliers of Raw Materials, may Intensify Pricing Pressures and may Negatively Impact Our Financial Performance. Over the last few years, many of our large industrial packaging, containerboard and corrugated products customers have acquired, or been acquired by, companies with similar or complementary product lines. In addition, many of our suppliers of raw materials such as steel, resin and paper, have undergone a similar process of consolidation. This consolidation has increased the concentration of our largest customers, resulting in increased pricing pressures from our customers. The consolidation of our largest suppliers has resulted in increased cost pressures from our suppliers. Any future consolidation of our customer base or our suppliers could negatively impact our financial performance. We Operate in Highly Competitive Industries. Each of our business segments operates in highly competitive industries. The most important competitive factors we face are price, quality, design and service. To the extent that one or more of our competitors become more successful with respect to any of these key competitive factors, we could lose customers and our sales could decline. In addition, due to the tendency of certain customers to diversify their suppliers, we could be unable to increase or maintain sales volumes with particular customers. Certain of our competitors are substantially larger and have significantly greater financial resources. Our Business is Sensitive to Changes in Industry Demands. Industry demand for containerboard in the United States and certain of our industrial packaging products in our United States and international markets has varied in recent years causing competitive pricing pressures for those products. We compete in industries that are capital intensive, which generally leads to continued production as long as prices are sufficient to cover marginal costs. As a result, changes in industry demands like the current economic slowdown, including any resulting industry over-capacity, may cause substantial price competition and, in turn, negatively impact our financial performance. Raw Material and Energy Price Fluctuations and Shortages Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Obtain the Materials Needed to Manufacture Our Products and Could Adversely Affect Our Manufacturing Costs. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are steel, resin, pulpwood, old corrugated containers for recycling, and containerboard, which we purchase in highly competitive, price sensitive markets. These raw materials have 9 Table of Contents historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Some of these materials have been, and in the future may be, in short supply. However, we have not recently experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining our principal raw materials. We have long-term supply contracts in place for obtaining a portion of our principal raw materials. The cost of producing our products is also sensitive to the price of energy (including its impact on transportation costs). We have, from time to time, entered into short-term contracts to hedge certain of our energy costs. Energy prices, in particular oil and natural gas, have fluctuated in recent years, with a corresponding effect on our production costs. Potential legislation, regulatory action and international treaties related to climate change, especially those related to the regulation of greenhouse gases, may result in significant increases in raw material and energy costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recoup any past or future increases in the cost of energy and raw materials. We may Encounter Difficulties Arising from Acquisitions. We have invested a substantial amount of capital in acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments, and we expect that we will continue to do so in the foreseeable future. We are continually evaluating acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments that are significant to our business both in the United States and internationally. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the failure to retain key customers, employees and contracts, the inability to integrate businesses without material disruption, unanticipated costs incurred in connection with integrating businesses, the incurrence of liabilities greater than anticipated or operating results that are less than anticipated, the inability to realize the projected value, and the projected synergies are not realized. In addition, acquisitions and integration activities require time and attention of management and other key personnel, and other companies in our industries have similar acquisition strategies. There can be no assurance that any acquisitions will be successfully integrated into our operations, that competition for acquisitions will not intensify or that we will be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms and conditions. The costs of unsuccessful acquisition efforts may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We may Incur Additional Restructuring Costs and there is no Guarantee that Our Efforts to Reduce Costs will be Successful. We have restructured portions of our operations from time to time in recent years, particularly following acquisitions of businesses and periods of economic downturn, and it is possible that we may engage in additional restructuring opportunities. Because we are not able to predict with certainty acquisition opportunities that may become available to us, market conditions, the loss of large customers, or the selling prices for our products, we also may not be able to predict with certainty when it will be appropriate to undertake restructurings. It is also possible, in connection with these restructuring efforts, that our costs could be higher than we anticipate and that we may not realize the expected benefits. As discussed elsewhere, we are also pursuing a transformation to become a leaner, more market-focused, performance-driven company — what we call the “Greif Business System.” We believe that the Greif Business System has and will continue to generate productivity improvements and achieve permanent cost reductions. While we expect our cost saving initiatives to result in significant savings throughout our organization, our estimated savings are based on several assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, and as a result, we cannot assure you that we will realize these cost savings or that, if realized, these cost savings will be sustained. If we cannot successfully implement and sustain the strategic cost reductions or other cost savings plans, our financial conditions and results of operations would be negatively affected. Tax Legislation Initiatives or Challenges to Our Tax Positions Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and international jurisdictions. As such, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments and of many international jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, U.S. federal, state and local, as well as international, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. 10 Table of Contents Several Operations are Conducted by Joint Ventures that we cannot Operate Solely for Our Benefit. Several operations, particularly in emerging markets, are conducted through joint ventures, such as a significant joint venture in our Flexible Products & Services segment. In joint ventures, we share ownership and, in some instances, management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. In general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. In certain cases, our joint venture partners must agree in order for the applicable joint venture to take certain actions, including acquisitions, the sale of assets, budget approvals, borrowing money and granting liens on joint venture property. Our inability to take unilateral action that we believe is in our best interests may have an adverse effect on the financial performance of the joint venture and the return on our investment. In joint ventures, we believe our relationship with our co-owners is an important factor to the success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. In addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. Finally, we may be required on a legal or practical basis or both, to accept liability for obligations of a joint venture beyond our economic interest, including in cases where our co-owner becomes bankrupt or is otherwise unable to meet its commitments. For additional information with respect to the joint venture relating to our Flexible Products & Services segment, refer to Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Business Acquisitions. Our Ability to Attract, Develop and Retain Talented Employees, Managers and Executives is Critical to Our Success. Our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, including executives and other key managers, is important to our business. The loss of certain key officers and employees, or the failure to attract and develop talented new executives and managers, could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our Business may be Adversely Impacted by Work Stoppages and Other Labor Relations Matters. We are subject to risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a significant number of our employees are represented by unions. We have experienced work stoppages and strikes in the past, and there may be work stoppages and strikes in the future. Any prolonged work stoppage or strike at any one of our principal manufacturing facilities could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be Subject to Losses that Might not be Covered in Whole or in Part by Existing Insurance Reserves or Insurance Coverage. These Uninsured Losses Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Performance. We are self-insured for certain of the claims made under our employee medical and dental insurance programs and for certain of our workers’ compensation claims. We establish reserves for estimated costs related to pending claims, administrative fees and claims incurred but not reported. Because establishing reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established reserves may not be adequate to cover the actual liability for claims made under our employee medical and dental insurance programs and for certain of our workers’ compensation claims. If we conclude that our estimates are incorrect and our reserves are inadequate for these claims, we will need to increase our reserves, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We carry comprehensive liability, fire and extended coverage insurance on most of our facilities, with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. However, there are certain types of losses, such as losses resulting from wars, acts of terrorism, or hurricanes, tornados, or other natural disasters, that generally are not insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose capital invested in that property, as well as the anticipated future revenues derived from the manufacturing activities conducted at that property, while remaining obligated for any indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any such loss would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase insurance policies covering general liability and product liability with substantial policy limits. However, there can be no assurance that any liability claim would be adequately covered by our applicable insurance policies or it would not be excluded from coverage based on the terms and conditions of the policy. This could also apply to any applicable contractual indemnity. 11 Table of Contents Our Business Depends on the Uninterrupted Operations of Our Facilities, Systems and Business Functions, including Our Information Technology and Other Business Systems. Our business is dependent upon our ability to execute, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as accessing key business data, order processing, invoicing and the operation of information technology dependent manufacturing equipment. A shut-down of or inability to access one or more of our facilities, a power outage, a pandemic, or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. Our information technology systems exist on platforms in more than 50 countries, many of which have been acquired in connection with business acquisitions, resulting in a complex technical infrastructure. Such complexity creates difficulties and inefficiencies in monitoring business results and consolidating financial data and could result in a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. A security breach of our computer systems could also interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation. In addition, we could be subject to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from our computer system. Despite the implementation of security measures, these systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors or similar disruptive problems. We have established a business continuity plan in an effort to ensure the continuation of core business operations in the event that normal operations could not be performed due to a catastrophic event. While we continue to test and assess our business continuity plan to ensure it meets the needs of our core business operations and addresses multiple business interruption events, there is no assurance that core business operations could be performed upon the occurrence of such an event. Legislation/Regulation Related to Climate Change and Environmental and Health and Safety Matters and Product Liability Claims Could Negatively Impact Our Operations and Financial Performance. We must comply with extensive U.S. and non-U.S. laws, rules and regulations regarding environmental matters, such as air, soil and water quality, waste disposal and climate change. We must also comply with extensive laws, rules and regulations regarding safety and health matters. There can be no assurance that compliance with existing and new laws, rules and regulations will not require significant expenditures. For example, the passage of the Health Care Reform Act in 2010 could significantly increase the cost of the health care benefits provided to our U.S. employees. In addition, the failure to comply materially with such existing and new laws, rules and regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We believe it is also likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations and financial performance. As an update to legislation and regulatory activity that impacts or could impact our business: • The U.S. EPA issued a finding in 2009 that greenhouse gases contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. The endangerment finding and EPA’s determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act, will lead to widespread regulation of stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions. • Congress may continue to consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions, which may include a cap and trade system for stationary sources and a carbon fee on transportation fuels. • The Canadian government has added bisphenol A (BPA), a chemical monomer used primarily in the production of plastic and epoxy resins, to the list of toxic substances in Schedule 1 of the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999. Such designation may lead to additional regulation of the use of BPA in food contact applications. Although there may be adverse financial impact (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and increased cost of energy, raw materials and transportation) associated with any such legislation, regulation or other action, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the fact that some requirements have only recently been adopted and the present uncertainty regarding other additional measures and how they will be implemented. Furthermore, litigation or claims against us with respect to such matters could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We may also become subject to product liability claims that could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. 12 Table of Contents Changing Climate Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Performance. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures and sea levels and changes in weather patterns, could impact the frequency or severity of weather events, wildfires and flooding. These types of events may adversely impact our suppliers, our customers and their ability to purchase our products and our ability to manufacture and transport our products on a timely basis and could result in a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. The Frequency and Volume of Our Timber and Timberland Sales will Impact Our Financial Performance. We have a significant inventory of standing timber and timberland and approximately 59,150 acres of special use properties in the United States and Canada as of October 31, 2010. The frequency, demand for and volume of sales of timber, timberland and special use properties will have an effect on our financial performance. In addition, volatility in the real estate market for special use properties could negatively affect our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 