ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements contained in this Form 10-K may be “forward-looking” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company’s operating results to differ materially from those projected. The following factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company’s actual financial performance. The terms “Greif,” “our company,” “we,” “us” and “our” as used in this discussion refer to Greif, Inc. and subsidiaries. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic or business conditions. Our customers generally consist of other manufacturers and suppliers who purchase industrial packaging products and 3 containerboard and related corrugated products for their own containment and shipping purposes. Because we supply a cross section of industries, such as chemicals, food products, petroleum products, pharmaceuticals and metal products, and have operations in many countries, demand for our industrial packaging products and containerboard and related corrugated products has historically corresponded to changes in general economic and business conditions of the industries and countries in which we operate. Accordingly, our financial performance is substantially dependent upon the general economic conditions existing in these industries and countries, and any prolonged or substantial economic downturn could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our operations are subject to currency exchange and political risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. We have operations in over 45 countries. As a result of our international operations, we are subject to certain risks that could disrupt our operations or force us to incur unanticipated costs. Our operating performance is affected by devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates by: • translations into United States dollars for financial reporting purposes of the assets and liabilities of our international operations conducted in local currencies; and • gains or losses from transactions conducted in currencies other than the operation’s functional currency. We are subject to various other risks associated with operating in international countries, such as the following: • political, social and economic instability; • war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism; • taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation; • changes in government policies and regulations; • imposition of limitations on conversions of currencies into United States dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by international subsidiaries; • imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by international subsidiaries; • hyperinflation in certain countries; and • impositions or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by non-United States governments. We operate in highly competitive industries. Each of our business segments operates in highly competitive industries. The most important competitive factors we face are price, quality and service. To the extent that one or more of our competitors become more successful with respect to any of these key competitive factors, we could lose customers and our sales could decline. In addition, due to the tendency of certain customers to diversify their suppliers, we could be unable to increase or maintain sales volumes with particular customers. Certain of our competitors are substantially larger and have significantly greater financial resources. Our business is sensitive to changes in industry demands. Industry demand for containerboard in the United States and certain of our industrial packaging products in our United States and international markets has varied in recent years causing competitive pricing pressures for those products. We compete in industries that are capital intensive, which generally leads to continued production as long as prices are sufficient to cover marginal costs. As a result, changes in industry demands, including any resulting industry over-capacity, may cause substantial price competition and, in turn, negatively impact our financial performance. The continuing consolidation of our customer base for industrial packaging, containerboard and corrugated products may intensify pricing pressures and may negatively impact our financial performance. Over the last few years, many of our large industrial packaging, containerboard and corrugated products customers have acquired, or been acquired by, companies with similar or complementary product lines. This consolidation has increased the concentration of our largest customers, and resulted in increased pricing pressures from our customers. The continuing consolidation of our customer base may negatively impact our financial performance. 4 Raw material and energy price fluctuations and shortages could adversely affect our ability to obtain the materials needed to manufacture our products and could adversely affect our manufacturing costs. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are steel, resin, pulpwood, old corrugated containers for recycling, and containerboard, which we purchase in highly competitive, price sensitive markets. These raw materials have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Some of these materials have been, and in the future may be, in short supply. The Company does not have any hedging contracts for raw materials and has long-term supply contracts for only a portion of its total purchases. The cost of producing our products is also sensitive to the price of energy. We have, from time to time, entered into short-term contracts to hedge certain of our energy costs. Energy prices, in particular oil and natural gas, have fluctuated in recent years, with a corresponding effect on our production costs. Environmental and health and safety matters and product liability claims could negatively impact our operations and financial performance. We must comply with extensive rules and regulations regarding federal, state, local and international environmental matters, such as air and water quality and waste disposal. We must also comply with extensive rules and regulations regarding safety and health matters. The failure to materially comply with such rules and regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Furthermore, litigation or claims against us with respect to such matters could adversely affect our financial performance. We may also become subject to product liability claims, which could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor relations matters. We are subject to risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a significant number of our employees are represented by unions. We have experienced work stoppages and strikes in the past, and there may be work stoppages and strikes in the future. Any prolonged work stoppage or strike at any one of our principal manufacturing facilities could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may encounter difficulties arising from acquisitions. During recent years, we have invested a substantial amount of capital in acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the failure to retain key customers, employees and contracts, the inability to integrate businesses without material disruption, unanticipated costs incurred in connection with integrating businesses and the incurrence of liabilities greater than anticipated or operating results that are less than anticipated. In addition, acquisitions and integration activities require time and attention of management and other key personnel, and other companies in our industries have similar acquisition strategies. There can be no assurance that any future acquisitions will be successfully integrated into our operations, that competition for acquisitions will not intensify or that we will be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms and conditions. The costs of unsuccessful acquisition efforts may adversely affect our financial performance. We may be subject to losses that might not be covered in whole or in part by existing insurance reserves or insurance coverage. These uninsured losses could adversely affect our financial performance. We are self-insured for certain of the claims made under our employee medical and dental insurance programs and for certain of our workers’ compensation claims. We establish reserves for estimated costs related to pending claims, administrative fees and claims incurred but not reported. Because establishing reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established reserves may not be adequate to cover the actual liability for claims made under our employee medical and dental insurance programs and for certain of our workers’ compensation claims. If we conclude that our estimates are incorrect and our reserves are inadequate for these claims, we will need to increase our reserves, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We carry comprehensive liability, fire and extended coverage insurance on most of our facilities, with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. However, there are certain types of losses, such as losses resulting from wars, acts of terrorism, or hurricanes, tornados, 5 or other natural disasters, that generally are not insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose capital invested in that property, as well as the anticipated future revenues derived from the manufacturing activities conducted at that property, while remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any such loss would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase insurance policies covering general liability and product liability with substantial policy limits. However, there can be no assurance that any liability claim would be adequately covered by our applicable insurance policies or it would not be excluded from coverage based on the terms and conditions of the policy. This could also apply to any applicable contractual indemnity. The frequency and volume of our timber and timberland sales will impact our financial performance. We have a significant inventory of standing timber and timberland and approximately 76,000 acres of special use properties in the United States and Canada. The frequency and volume of sales of timber, timberland and special use properties will have an effect on our financial performance. In addition, volatility in the real estate market and a reduction in demand for special use properties could negatively affect our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 