ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements contained in this Form 10-K may be “forward-looking” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our operating results to differ materially from those projected. The following factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual financial and/or operational performance. 6 Table of Contents The Current and Future Challenging Global Economy may Adversely Affect Our Business. The current economic downturn and any further economic decline in future reporting periods could negatively affect our business and results of operations. The volatility of the current economic climate makes it difficult for us to predict the complete impact of this downturn on our business and results of operations. Due to these current economic conditions, our customers may face financial difficulties, the unavailability of or reduction in commercial credit, or both, that may result in decreased sales by and revenues to our company. Certain of our customers may cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection, which would reduce our cash flows and adversely impact our results of operations. Our customers that are financially viable and not experiencing economic distress may nevertheless elect to reduce the volume of orders for our products or close facilities in an effort to remain financially stable or as a result of the unavailability of commercial credit which would negatively affect our results of operations. We may also have difficulty accessing the global credit markets due to the tightening of commercial credit availability and the financial difficulties of our customers, which would result in decreased ability to fund capital-intensive strategic projects. Further, we may experience challenges in forecasting revenues and operating results due to these global economic conditions. The difficulty in forecasting revenues and operating results may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the lenders under our senior secured credit agreement and other borrowing facilities described in Item 7 of this Form 10-K under “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Borrowing Arrangements “ and the counterparties with whom we maintain interest rate swap agreements, currency forward contracts and derivatives and other hedge agreements may be unable to perform their lending or payment obligations in whole or in part, or may cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection, which would negatively affect our cash flows and our results of operations. Historically, Our Business has been Sensitive to Changes in General Economic or Business Conditions. Our customers generally consist of other manufacturers and suppliers who purchase industrial packaging products and containerboard and related corrugated products for their own containment and shipping purposes. Because we supply a cross section of industries, such as chemicals, paints and pigments, food and beverage, petroleum, industrial coatings, agricultural, pharmaceutical and mineral products, and have operations in many countries, demand for our products and services has historically corresponded to changes in general economic and business conditions of the industries and countries in which we operate. Accordingly, our financial performance is substantially dependent upon the general economic conditions existing in these industries and countries, and any prolonged or substantial economic downturn in the markets in which we operate, including the current economic downturn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our Operations are Subject to Currency Exchange and Political Risks that Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We have operations in over 50 countries. As a result of our international operations, we are subject to certain risks that could disrupt our operations or force us to incur unanticipated costs. Our operating performance is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates by: • translations into United States dollars for financial reporting purposes of the assets and liabilities of our international operations conducted in local currencies; and • gains or losses from transactions conducted in currencies other than the operation’s functional currency. The company also has indebtedness, agreements to purchase raw materials and agreements to sell finished products that are denominated in Euros. Recent events in Europe have called into question the viability of a common European currency. The failure of the Euro could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to various other risks associated with operating in international countries, such as the following: • political, social and economic instability which has commonly been associated with developing countries but presently is also impacting several industrialized countries; • war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism; • taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation; • changes in government policies and regulations; • imposition of limitations on conversions of currencies into United States dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by international subsidiaries; • imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on income remittances and other payments by international subsidiaries; • hyperinflation in certain countries and the current threat of global deflation; and • impositions or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by non-United States governments. 7 Table of Contents The Continuing Consolidation of Our Customer Base and Suppliers may Intensify Pricing Pressure. Over the last few years, many of our large industrial packaging, containerboard and corrugated products customers have acquired, or been acquired by, companies with similar or complementary product lines. In addition, many of our suppliers of raw materials such as steel, resin and paper, have undergone a similar process of consolidation. This consolidation has increased the concentration of our largest customers, resulting in increased pricing pressures from our customers. The consolidation of our largest suppliers has resulted in increased cost pressures from our suppliers. Any future consolidation of our customer base or our suppliers could negatively impact our financial performance. We Operate in Highly Competitive Industries. Each of our business segments operates in highly competitive industries. The most important competitive factors we face are price, quality and service. To the extent that one or more of our competitors become more successful with respect to any of these key competitive factors, we could lose customers and our sales could decline. In addition, due to the tendency of certain customers to diversify their suppliers, we could be unable to increase or maintain sales volumes with particular customers. Certain of our competitors are substantially larger and have significantly greater financial resources. Our Business is Sensitive to Changes in Industry Demands. Industry demand for containerboard in the United States and certain of our industrial packaging products in our United States, European and other international markets has varied in recent years causing competitive pricing pressures for those products. We compete in industries that are capital intensive, which generally leads to continued production as long as prices are sufficient to cover marginal costs. As a result, changes in industry demands like the current economic downturn, including any resulting industry over-capacity, may cause substantial price competition and, in turn, negatively impact our financial performance. Raw Material and Energy Price Fluctuations and Shortages may Adversely Impact Our Manufacturing Operations and Costs. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are steel, resin, pulpwood, old corrugated containers for recycling, used industrial packaging for reconditioning, and containerboard, which we purchase or otherwise acquire in highly competitive, price sensitive markets. These raw materials have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Some of these materials have been, and in the future may be, in short supply. However, we have not recently experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining our principal raw materials. We have long-term supply contracts in place for obtaining a portion of our principal raw materials. The cost of producing our products is also sensitive to the price of energy (including its impact on transport costs). We have, from time to time, entered into short-term contracts to hedge certain of our energy costs. Energy prices, in particular oil and natural gas, have fluctuated in recent years, with a corresponding effect on our production costs. Potential legislation, regulatory action and international treaties related to climate change, especially those related to the regulation of greenhouse gases, may result in significant increases in raw material and energy costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recoup any past or future increases in the cost of energy and raw materials. We may Encounter Difficulties Arising from Acquisitions. We have in recent years invested a substantial amount of capital in acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments and we expect that we will continue to do so in the foreseeable future. We are continually evaluating acquisitions and strategic investments that are significant to our business both in the United States and internationally. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including the failure to retain key customers, employees and contracts, the inability to integrate businesses without material disruption, unanticipated costs incurred in connection with integrating businesses, the incurrence of liabilities greater than anticipated or operating results that are less than anticipated, the inability to realize the projected value, and the projected synergies are not realized. In addition, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments and associated integration activities require time and attention of management and other key personnel, and other companies in our industries have similar acquisition and investment strategies. There can be no assurance that any acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments will be successfully integrated into our operations, that competition for acquisitions will not intensify or that we will be able to complete such acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments on acceptable terms and conditions. The costs of unsuccessful acquisition, joint venture and strategic investment efforts may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We may Incur Additional Restructuring Costs and there is no Guarantee that Our Efforts to Reduce Costs will be Successful. We have restructured portions of our operations from time to time in recent years, particularly following acquisitions of businesses and periods of economic downturn, and it is possible that we may engage in additional restructuring opportunities. Because we are not able to predict with certainty acquisition opportunities that may become available to us, market conditions, the loss of large customers, or the selling prices for our products, we also may not be able to predict with certainty when it will be appropriate to undertake restructurings. It is also possible, in connection with these restructuring efforts, that our costs could be higher than we anticipate and that we may not realize the expected benefits. As discussed elsewhere, in 2003 we implemented the “Greif Business System,” a quantitative, systematic and disciplined process to improve productivity, increase profitability, reduce costs and drive shareholder value. While we expect these initiatives to result in significant profit opportunities and savings throughout our organization, our estimated profits and savings are based on several assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, and as a result, there can be no assurance that we will realize these profits and cost savings or that, if realized, these profits and cost savings will be sustained. If we cannot successfully continue to implement and sustain Greif Business System initiatives, our financial conditions and results of operations would be negatively affected. 8 Table of Contents Tax Legislation Initiatives or Challenges to Our Tax Positions May Adversely Impact Our Results or Condition. We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and international jurisdictions. As such, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments and of many international jurisdictions. Due to widely varying tax rates in the taxing jurisdictions applicable to our business, a change in income generation to higher taxing jurisdictions or away from lower taxing jurisdictions may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, U.S. federal, state and local, as well as international, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. Several Operations are Conducted by Joint Ventures that we cannot Operate Solely for Our Benefit. Several operations, particularly in emerging markets, are conducted through joint ventures, such as a significant joint venture in our Flexible Products & Services segment. In joint ventures, we share ownership and, in some instances, management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. In general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information, accounting and making decisions. In certain cases, our joint venture partners must agree in order for the applicable joint venture to take certain actions, including acquisitions, the sale of assets, budget approvals, borrowing money and granting liens on joint venture property. Our inability to take unilateral action that we believe is in our best interests may have an adverse effect on the financial performance of the joint venture and the return on our investment. In joint ventures, we believe our relationship with our co-owners is an important factor to the success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. In addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. Finally, we may be required on a legal or practical basis or both, to accept liability for obligations of a joint venture beyond our economic interest, including in cases where our co-owner becomes bankrupt or is otherwise unable to meet its commitments. For additional information with respect to the joint venture relating to our Flexible Products & Services segment, refer to Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Business Acquisitions. Our Ability to Attract, Develop and Retain Talented Employees, Managers and Executives is Critical to Our Success. Our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, including executives and other key managers, is important to our business. The loss of certain key officers and employees, or the failure to attract and develop talented new executives and managers, could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Our Business may be Adversely Impacted by Work Stoppages and Other Labor Relations Matters. We are subject to risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a significant number of our employees are represented by unions. We have experienced work stoppages and strikes in the past, and there may be work stoppages and strikes in the future. Any prolonged work stoppage or strike at any one of our principal manufacturing facilities could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be Subject to Losses that Might not be Covered in Whole or in Part by Existing Insurance Reserves or Insurance Coverage. We are self-insured for certain of the claims made under our employee medical and dental insurance programs and for certain of our workers’ compensation claims. We establish reserves for estimated costs related to pending claims, administrative fees and claims incurred but not reported. Because establishing reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established reserves may not be adequate to cover the actual liability for claims made under our employee medical and dental insurance programs and for certain of our workers’ compensation claims. If we conclude that our estimates are incorrect and our reserves are inadequate for these claims, we will need to increase our reserves, which could adversely affect our financial performance. 9 Table of Contents We carry comprehensive liability, fire and extended coverage insurance on most of our facilities, with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. However, there are certain types of losses, such as losses resulting from wars, acts of terrorism, wind storm, flood, earthquake or other natural disasters, that may be uninsurable or subject to restrictive policy conditions. In these instances, should a loss occur in excess of insured limits, we could lose capital invested in that property, as well as the anticipated future revenues derived from the manufacturing activities conducted at that property, while remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any such loss would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase insurance policies covering general liability and product liability with substantial policy limits. However, there can be no assurance that any liability claim would be adequately covered by our applicable insurance policies or it would not be excluded from coverage based on the terms and conditions of the policy. This could also apply to any applicable contractual indemnity. We also purchase environmental liability policies where legally required and may elect to purchase coverage in other circumstances in order to transfer all or a portion of environmental liability risk through insurance. However, there can be no assurance that any environmental liability claim would be adequately covered by our applicable insurance policies or that it would not be excluded from coverage based on the terms and conditions of the policy. Our Business Depends on the Uninterrupted Operations of Our Facilities, Systems and Business Functions, including Our Information Technology and Other Business Systems. Our business is dependent upon our ability to execute, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as accessing key business data, order processing, invoicing and the operation of information technology dependent manufacturing equipment. A shut-down of or inability to access one or more of our facilities, a power outage, a pandemic, or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. Our information technology systems exist on platforms in more than 50 countries, many of which have been acquired in connection with business acquisitions, resulting in a complex technical infrastructure. Such complexity creates difficulties and inefficiencies in monitoring business results and consolidating financial data and could result in a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. In order to reduce this complexity, we have initiated a standard information technology platform project to transition from many of the former systems to a single system. Given its scope, this project will take several years to complete and will require significant human and financial resources. There can be no assurance that this project will be successful, and even if successful, there can be no assurance that there will not exist other difficulties and inefficiencies in our systems. A security breach of our computer systems could also interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation. In addition, we could be subject to liability if confidential information relating to customers, suppliers, employees or other parties is misappropriated from our computer system. Despite the implementation of security measures, these systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors or similar disruptive problems. We have established a business continuity plan in an effort to ensure the continuation of core business operations in the event that normal operations could not be performed due to a catastrophic event. While we continue to test and assess our business continuity plan to ensure it meets the needs of our core business operations and addresses multiple business interruption events, there is no assurance that core business operations could be performed upon the occurrence of such an event. Legislation/Regulation Related to Climate Change and Environmental and Health and Safety Matters and Corporate Social Responsibility Could Negatively Impact our Operations and Financial Performance. We must comply with extensive laws, rules and regulations in the United States and in each of the countries we engage in business regarding environmental matters, such as air, soil and water quality, waste disposal and climate change. We must also comply with extensive laws, rules and regulations regarding safety, health and corporate responsibility matters. There can be no assurance that compliance with existing and new laws, rules and regulations will not require significant expenditures. For example, the passage of the Health Care Reform Act in 2010 could significantly increase the cost of the health care benefits provided to our U.S. employees. In addition, the failure to comply materially with such existing and new laws, rules and regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We believe it is also likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations and financial performance. As an update to legislation and regulatory activity that impacts or could impact our business: • The U.S. EPA issued a finding in 2009 that greenhouse gases contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. The endangerment finding and EPA’s determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act, will lead to widespread regulation of stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions. 10 Table of Contents • Congress may continue to consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions, which may include a cap and trade system for stationary sources and a carbon fee on transportation fuels. • In 2010, the Canadian government added bisphenol A (BPA), a chemical monomer used primarily in the production of plastic and epoxy resins, to the list of toxic substances in Schedule 1 of the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999. Such designation may lead to additional regulation of the use of BPA in food contact applications. • In 2012, the SEC, as directed by Section 1502 of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, enacted new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for companies regarding the use of “conflict minerals” from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. These new requirements could affect the sourcing, availability and cost of minerals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. It is also likely that we will incur costs associated with complying with the new supply chain due diligence procedures required by the SEC. In addition, because our supply chain is complex, we may face reputation challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. Although there may be adverse financial impact (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and increased cost of energy, raw materials and transportation) associated with any such legislation, regulation or other action, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the fact that some requirements have only recently been adopted and the present uncertainty regarding other additional measures and how they will be implemented. Product Liability Claims and Other Legal Proceedings Could Adversely Affect our Operations and Financial Performance. We produce products and provide services related to other parties’ products. While we have built extensive operational processes to ensure that the design and manufacture of our products meet rigorous quality standards, there can be no assurance that we or our customers will not experience operational process failures that could result in potential product, safety, regulatory or environmental claims and associated litigation. We are also subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks in our areas of operation around the globe. We and the industries in which we operate are at times being reviewed or investigated by regulators and other governmental authorities, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time that could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We may Incur Fines or Penalties, Damage to Our Reputation or Other Adverse Consequences if Our Employees, Agents or Business Partners Violate, or are Alleged to Have Violated, Anti-bribery, Competition or Other Laws. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including anti-bribery, competition, trade sanctions and regulation, and other laws. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal monetary and non-monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries, and could damage our reputation. Even the allegation or appearance of our employees, agents or business partners acting improperly or illegally could damage our reputation and result in significant expenditures in investigating and responding to such actions. Changing Climate Conditions may Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Performance. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures and sea levels and changes in weather patterns, could impact the frequency or severity of weather events, wildfires and flooding. These types of events may adversely impact our suppliers, our customers and their ability to purchase our products and our ability to manufacture and transport our products on a timely basis and could result in a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. The Frequency and Volume of Our Timber and Timberland Sales will Impact Our Financial Performance. We have a significant inventory of standing timber and timberland and approximately 47,750 acres of special use properties in the United States and Canada as of October 31, 2012. The frequency, demand for and volume of sales of timber, timberland and special use properties will have an effect on our financial performance. In addition, volatility in the real estate market for special use properties could negatively affect our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 11 Table of Contents 