ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements contained in this Form 10-K may be “forward-looking” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our operating results to differ materially from those projected. The following factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual financial performance. The Current and Future Challenging Global Economy may Adversely Affect our Business. The current economic slowdown and any further economic decline in future reporting periods could negatively affect our business and results of operations. The volatility of the current economic climate makes it difficult for us to predict the complete impact of this slowdown on our business and results of operations. Due to these current economic conditions, our customers may face financial difficulties, the unavailability of or reduction in commercial credit, or both, that may result in decreased sales by and revenues to our company. Certain of our customers may cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection, which would reduce our cash flows and adversely impact our results of operations. Our customers that are financially viable and not experiencing economic distress may elect to reduce the volume of orders for our products in an effort to remain financially stable or as a result of the unavailability of commercial credit which would negatively affect our results of operations. We may also have difficulty accessing the global credit markets due to the tightening of commercial credit availability and the financial difficulties of our customers, which would result in decreased ability to fund capital-intensive strategic projects and our ongoing acquisition strategy. Further, we may experience challenges in forecasting revenues and operating results due to these global economic conditions. The difficulty in forecasting revenues and operating results may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the lenders under our Credit Agreement and other borrowing facilities described in Item 7 of this Form 10-K under “Liquidity and Capital Resources - Borrowing Arrangements “ and the counterparties with whom we maintain interest rate swap agreements, cross-currency interest rate swaps, currency forward contracts and derivatives and other hedge agreements may be unable to perform their lending or payment obligations in whole or in part, or may cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection, which would negatively affect our cash flows and our results of operations. Historically, our Business has been Sensitive to Changes in General Economic or Business Conditions. Our customers generally consist of other manufacturers and suppliers who purchase industrial packaging products and containerboard and related corrugated products for their own containment and shipping purposes. Because we supply a cross section of industries, such as chemicals, food products, petroleum products, pharmaceuticals, metal products, agricultural and agrichemical products, and have operations in many countries, demand for our industrial packaging products and containerboard and related corrugated products has historically corresponded to changes in general economic and business conditions of the industries and countries in which we operate. Accordingly, our financial performance is substantially dependent upon the general economic conditions existing in these industries and countries, and any prolonged or substantial economic downturn in the markets in which we operate, including the current economic downturn, could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our Operations are Subject to Currency Exchange and Political Risks that could Adversely Affect our Results of Operations. We have operations in over 45 countries. As a result of our international operations, we are subject to certain risks that could disrupt our operations or force us to incur unanticipated costs. 8 Table of Contents Our operating performance is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates by: • translations into United States dollars for financial reporting purposes of the assets and liabilities of our international operations conducted in local currencies; and • gains or losses from transactions conducted in currencies other than the operation’s functional currency. We are subject to various other risks associated with operating in international countries, such as the following: • political, social and economic instability; • war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism; • taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation; • changes in government policies and regulations; • imposition of limitations on conversions of currencies into United States dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by international subsidiaries; • imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by international subsidiaries; • hyperinflation in certain countries and the current threat of global deflation; and • impositions or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by non-United States governments. We Operate in Highly Competitive Industries. Each of our business segments operates in highly competitive industries. The most important competitive factors we face are price, quality and service. To the extent that one or more of our competitors become more successful with respect to any of these key competitive factors, we could lose customers and our sales could decline. In addition, due to the tendency of certain customers to diversify their suppliers, we could be unable to increase or maintain sales volumes with particular customers. Certain of our competitors are substantially larger and have significantly greater financial resources. Our Business is Sensitive to Changes in Industry Demands. Industry demand for containerboard in the United States and certain of our industrial packaging products in our United States and international markets has varied in recent years causing competitive pricing pressures for those products. We compete in industries that are capital intensive, which generally leads to continued production as long as prices are sufficient to cover marginal costs. As a result, changes in industry demands like the current economic slowdown, including any resulting industry over-capacity, may cause substantial price competition and, in turn, negatively impact our financial performance. The Continuing Consolidation of our Customer Base for Industrial Packaging, Containerboard and Corrugated Products may Intensify Pricing Pressures and may Negatively Impact our Financial Performance. Over the last few years, many of our large industrial packaging, containerboard and corrugated products customers have acquired, or been acquired by, companies with similar or complementary product lines. This consolidation has increased the concentration of our largest customers, and resulted in increased pricing pressures from our customers. Any future consolidation of our customer base could negatively impact our financial performance. Raw Material and Energy Price Fluctuations and Shortages Could Adversely Affect our Ability to Obtain the Materials Needed to Manufacture our Products and Could Adversely Affect our Manufacturing Costs. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are steel, resin, pulpwood, old corrugated containers for recycling, and containerboard, which we purchase in highly competitive, price sensitive markets. These raw materials have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Some of these materials have been, and in the future may be, in short supply. However, we have not recently experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining our principal raw materials. We have long-term supply contracts in place for obtaining a portion of our principal raw materials. The cost of producing our products is also sensitive to the price of energy (including its impact on transport costs). We have, from time to time, entered into short-term contracts to hedge certain of our energy costs. Energy prices, in particular oil and natural gas, have fluctuated in recent years, with a corresponding effect on our production costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recoup any past or future increases in the cost of energy and raw materials. 9 Table of Contents Tax Legislation Initiatives or Challenges to our Tax Positions Could Adversely affect our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and international jurisdictions. As such, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments and of many international jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, U.S. federal, state and local, as well as international, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. We may Encounter Difficulties Arising from Acquisitions. We have invested a substantial amount of capital in acquisitions or strategic investments and we expect that we will continue to do so in the foreseeable future. We are continually evaluating acquisitions or strategic investments that are significant to our business both in the United States and internationally. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the failure to retain key customers, employees and contracts, the inability to integrate businesses without material disruption, unanticipated costs incurred in connection with integrating businesses, the incurrence of liabilities greater than anticipated or operating results that are less than anticipated, the inability to realize the projected value, and the synergies projected to be realized. In addition, acquisitions and integration activities require time and attention of management and other key personnel, and other companies in our industries have similar acquisition strategies. There can be no assurance that any acquisitions will be successfully integrated into our operations, that competition for acquisitions will not intensify or that we will be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms and conditions. The costs of unsuccessful acquisition efforts may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Environmental and Health and Safety Matters and Product Liability Claims Could Negatively Impact our Operations and Financial Performance. We must comply with extensive rules and regulations regarding federal, state, local and international environmental matters, such as air, soil and water quality and waste disposal. We must also comply with extensive rules and regulations regarding safety and health matters. The failure to materially comply with such rules and regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Furthermore, litigation or claims against us with respect to such matters could adversely affect our financial performance. We may also become subject to product liability claims, which could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Our Business may be Adversely Impacted by Work Stoppages and other Labor Relations Matters. We are subject to risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a significant number of our employees are represented by unions. We have experienced work stoppages and strikes in the past, and there may be work stoppages and strikes in the future. Any prolonged work stoppage or strike at any one of our principal manufacturing facilities could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be Subject to Losses that Might not be Covered in Whole or in Part by Existing Insurance Reserves or Insurance Coverage. These Uninsured Losses could Adversely Affect our Financial Performance. We are self-insured for certain of the claims made under our employee medical and dental insurance programs and for certain of our workers’ compensation claims. We establish reserves for estimated costs related to pending claims, administrative fees and claims incurred but not reported. Because establishing reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established reserves may not be adequate to cover the actual liability for claims made under our employee medical and dental insurance programs and for certain of our workers’ compensation claims. If we conclude that our estimates are incorrect and our reserves are inadequate for these claims, we will need to increase our reserves, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We carry comprehensive liability, fire and extended coverage insurance on most of our facilities, with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. However, there are certain types of losses, such as losses resulting from 10 Table of Contents wars, acts of terrorism, or hurricanes, tornados, or other natural disasters, that generally are not insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose capital invested in that property, as well as the anticipated future revenues derived from the manufacturing activities conducted at that property, while remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any such loss would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase insurance policies covering general liability and product liability with substantial policy limits. However, there can be no assurance that any liability claim would be adequately covered by our applicable insurance policies or it would not be excluded from coverage based on the terms and conditions of the policy. This could also apply to any applicable contractual indemnity. The Frequency and Volume of our Timber and Timberland Sales will Impact our Financial Performance. We have a significant inventory of standing timber and timberland and approximately 58,900 acres of special use properties in the United States and Canada as of October 31, 2009. The frequency, demand for and volume of sales of timber, timberland and special use properties will have an effect on our financial performance. In addition, volatility in the real estate market for special use properties could negatively affect our results of operations. We may Incur Additional Restructuring Costs and there is no Guarantee that our Efforts to Reduce Costs will be Successful. We have restructured portions of our operations from time to time in recent years, and in particular, following acquisitions of businesses and periods of economic downturn, and it is possible that we may engage in additional restructuring opportunities. Because we are not able to predict with certainty acquisition opportunities that may become available to us, market conditions, the loss of large customers, or the selling prices for our products, we also may not be able to predict with certainty when it will be appropriate to undertake restructurings. It is also possible, in connection with these restructuring efforts, that our costs could be higher than we anticipate and that we may not realize the expected benefits. As discussed elsewhere, we are also pursuing a transformation to become a leaner, more market-focused, performance-driven company—what we call the “Greif Business System.” We believe that the Greif Business System has and will continue to generate productivity improvements and achieve permanent cost reductions. While we expect our cost saving initiatives to result in significant savings throughout our organization, our estimated savings are based on several assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, and as a result, we cannot assure you that we will realize these cost savings or that, if realized, these cost savings will be sustained. If we cannot successfully implement and sustain the strategic cost reductions or other cost savings plans, our financial conditions and results of operations would be negatively affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 11 Table of Contents 