Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), the consolidated financial statements and related notes. These risk factors may be important in understanding this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The truck rental industry is highly competitive and includes a number of significant national, regional and local competitors. Competition is generally based on convenience of rental locations, availability of quality rental moving equipment, breadth of essential services and price. In our truck rental business, our primary competitors are Budget Car and Truck Rental Company and Penske Truck Leasing. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than we have. We can not assure you that we will be able to maintain existing rental prices or implement price increases. The self-storage industry is large and highly fragmented. We believe the principle competitive factors in this industry are convenience of storage rental locations, cleanliness, security and price. Some of our primary competitors in the self-storage market are Public Storage, Inc., Extra Space Storage, Inc., and Sovran Self-Storage Inc. Competition in the market areas in which we operate is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental sales and operating expenses of our facilities. Competition might cause us to experience a decrease in occupancy levels, limit our ability to raise rental sales and require us to offer discounted rates that would have a material affect on operating results. Entry into the self-storage business through acquisition of existing facilities is possible for persons or institutions with the required initial capital. Development of new self-storage facilities is more difficult however, due to zoning, environmental and other regulatory requirements. The self-storage industry has in the past experienced overbuilding in response to perceived increases in demand. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete in existing markets or expand into new markets. 10 Control of AMERCO remains in the hands of a small contingent. As of March 31, 2006, Edward J. Shoen, Chairman of the Board of Directors and President of AMERCO, James P. Shoen, a director of AMERCO, and Mark V. Shoen, an executive officer of AMERCO, collectively are beneficial owners of 8,967,632 shares (approximately 42.1%) of the outstanding common shares of AMERCO. Accordingly, Edward J. Shoen, Mark V. Shoen and James P. Shoen will be in a position to continue to influence the election of the members of the Board of Directors and approval of significant transactions. In addition, 2,031,070 shares (approximately 9.5%) of the outstanding common shares of AMERCO are held by our Employee Savings and Employee Stock Ownership Trust. Our operations subject us to numerous environmental regulations and the possibility that environmental liability in the future could adversely affect our operations. Compliance with environmental requirements of federal, state and local governments significantly affects our business. Among other things, these requirements regulate the discharge of materials into the water, air and land and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances. Under environmental laws or common law principles, we can be held strictly liable for hazardous substances that are found on real property we have owned or operated. We are aware of issues regarding hazardous substances on some of our real estate and we have put in place a remedial plan at each site where we believe such a plan is necessary (see Note 17 of our Consolidated Financial Statements). We regularly make capital and operating expenditures to stay in compliance with environmental laws. In particular, we have managed a testing and removal program since 1988 for our underground storage tanks. Despite these compliance efforts, risk of environmental liability is part of the nature of our business. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. We cannot assure you that future compliance with these regulations, future environmental liabilities, the cost of defending environmental claims, conducting any environmental remediation or generally resolving liabilities caused by us or related third parties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with our industry. Our business is seasonal and our results of operations and cash flows fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Historically, revenues have been stronger in the first and second fiscal quarters due to the overall increase in moving activity during the spring and summer months. The fourth fiscal quarter is generally weakest, due to a greater potential for adverse weather conditions and other factors that are not necessarily seasonal. As a result, our operating results for a quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year. We obtain our rental trucks from a limited number of manufacturers. In the last ten years, we purchased most of our rental trucks from Ford Motor Company and General Motors Corporation. Although we believe that we could obtain alternative sources of supply for our rental trucks, termination of one or both of our relationships with these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations for an indefinite period of time or we may not be able to obtain rental trucks under similar terms, if at all. Our property and casualty insurance business has suffered extensive losses. Between January 1, 2000 and December 31, 2004, RepWest, reported pretax losses totaling approximately $164.0 million. These losses are primarily attributable to business lines that were unprofitable as underwritten. To restore profitability in RepWest, we have exited all non U-Haul related lines of business. RepWest’s pretax earnings for fiscal 2006 were $1.1 million primarily due to its exit from all non U-Haul lines of business. Although we believe the terminated lines are adequately reserved, we cannot assure that there will not be future adverse loss development. 11 Our life insurance business was downgraded by A.M. Best due to events surrounding the restructuring. A.M. Best downgraded Oxford and its subsidiaries during AMERCO's restructuring to C+. Upon AMERCO's emergence from bankruptcy in March 2004, Oxford and its subsidiaries were upgraded to B-. The ratings were again upgraded in October 2004 to B. In October 2005, A.M. Best upgraded Oxford and its subsidiaries to B+ with a stable outlook. Prior to AMERCO’s restructuring, Oxford was rated B++. Financial strength ratings are important external factors that can affect the success of Oxford’s business plans. Accordingly, if Oxford’s ratings, relative to its competitors, do not continue to improve, Oxford may not be able to retain and attract business as currently planned. Our notes receivable from SAC Holdings. At March 31, 2006, we held approximately $203.7 million of notes receivable from SAC Holdings, of which $75.1 million are related to SAC Holding II and have been eliminated in the consolidating financial statements. SAC Holdings is highly leveraged with significant indebtedness to others. We hold various junior unsecured notes of SAC Holdings. If SAC Holdings is unable to meet its obligations to its senior lenders, it could trigger a default of its obligations to us. In such an event of default, we could suffer a loss to the extent the value of the underlying collateral of SAC Holdings is inadequate to repay SAC Holding’s senior lenders and our junior unsecured notes. We cannot assure you that SAC Holdings will not default on its loans to its senior lenders or that the value of SAC Holdings assets upon liquidation would be sufficient to repay us in full. We face risks related to an SEC investigation and securities litigation. The SEC has issued a formal order of investigation to determine whether we have violated Federal Securities laws. Although we have cooperated with the SEC in this matter and intend to continue to cooperate, the SEC may determine that we have violated Federal Securities laws. We cannot predict when this investigation will be completed or its outcome. If the SEC makes a determination that we have violated Federal Securities laws, we may face sanctions, including, but not limited to, significant monetary penalties and injunctive relief. In addition, the Company has been named a defendant in a number of class action and related lawsuits. The findings and outcome of the SEC investigation may affect the class-action lawsuits that are pending. We are generally obligated, to the extent permitted by law, to indemnify our directors and officers who are named defendants in some of these lawsuits. We are unable to estimate what our liability in these matters may be, and we may be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses in aggregate amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Please refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved staff comments at March 31, 2006. Item 