Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”), the consolidated financial statements and related notes. These risk factors may be important in understanding this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. 7 We operate in a highly competitive industry. The truck rental industry is highly competitive and includes a number of significant national, regional and local competitors. Competition is generally based on convenience of rental locations, availability of quality rental moving equipment, breadth of essential services and price. Financial results for the Company can be adversely impacted by aggressive pricing from our competitors. In our truck rental business, our primary competitors are AvisBudget Group and Penske Truck Leasing. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than we have. We can not assure you that we will be able to maintain existing rental prices or implement price increases. Moreover, if our competitors reduce prices and we are not able or willing to do so as well, we may lose rental volume, which would likely have a materially adverse affect on our results of operations. The self-storage industry is large and highly fragmented. We believe the principle competitive factors in this industry are convenience of storage rental locations, cleanliness, security and price. Some of our primary competitors in the self-storage market are Public Storage, Inc., Extra Space Storage, Inc., and Sovran Self-Storage Inc. Competition in the market areas in which we operate is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental sales and operating expenses of our facilities. Competition might cause us to experience a decrease in occupancy levels, limit our ability to raise rental sales and require us to offer discounted rates that would have a material affect on operating results. Entry into the self-storage business through acquisition of existing facilities is possible for persons or institutions with the required initial capital. Development of new self-storage facilities is more difficult however, due to land use, environmental and other regulatory requirements. The self-storage industry has in the past experienced overbuilding in response to perceived increases in demand. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete in existing markets or expand into new markets. We are controlled by asmall contingent of stockholders. As of March 31, 2007, Edward J. Shoen, Chairman of the Board of Directors and President of AMERCO, James P. Shoen, a director of AMERCO, and Mark V. Shoen, an executive officer of AMERCO, collectively are the owners of 8,967,863 shares (approximately 43.6%) of the outstanding common shares of AMERCO. In addition, on June 30, 2006, Edward J. Shoen, James P. Shoen, Mark V. Shoen, Rosmarie T. Donovan (Trustee of the Shoen Irrevocable Trusts) and Southwest Fiduciary, Inc. (Trustee of the Irrevocable “C” Trusts) (collectively, the “Reporting Persons”) entered into a Stockholder Agreement in which the Reporting Persons agreed to vote as one block in a manner consistent with the Stockholder Agreement and in furtherance of their interests. As of March 1, 2007, Adagio Trust Company replaced Southwest Fiduciary, Inc. as the trustee of the Irrevocable “C” Trusts, and became a signatory to the Stockholder Agreement that was entered into by the other Reporting Persons on June 30, 2006. Pursuant to the Stockholder Agreement, the Reporting Persons appointed James P. Shoen as proxy to vote their collective 10,642,588 shares (approximately 51.8%) of the Company’s common stock as provided for in the agreement. For additional information, see the Schedule 13D’s filed on July 13, 2006 and on March 9, 2007 with the SEC. In addition, 1,897,670 shares (approximately 9.2%) of the outstanding common shares of AMERCO are held by our Employee Savings and Employee Stock Ownership Trust. As a result of their stock ownership and the Stockholder Agreement, Edward J. Shoen, Mark V. Shoen and James P. Shoen will be in a position to significantly influence the business affairs and policies of the Company, including the approval of significant transactions, the election of the members of the Board of Directors and other matters submitted to our stockholders. There can be no assurance that the interests of the Reporting Persons will not conflict with the interest of our other stockholders. Furthermore, as a result of the Reporting Persons’ voting power, the Company is a “controlled company” as defined in the Nasdaq listing rules and, therefore, may avail itself of certain exemptions under Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, including rules that require the Company to have (i) a majority of independent directors on the Board; (ii) a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iv) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (v) director nominees selected, or recommended for the Board’s selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. The Company currently exercises its right to an exemption from the Nasdaq rule requiring compensation of other executive officers, aside from the President, be determined by a majority of the independent directors or the compensation committee. 8 Our operations subject us to numerous environmental regulations and the possibility that environmental liability in the future could adversely affect our operations. Compliance with environmental requirements of federal, state and local governments significantly affects our business. Among other things, these requirements regulate the discharge of materials into the water, air and land and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances. Under environmental laws or common law principles, we can be held strictly liable for hazardous substances that are found on real property we have owned or operated. We are aware of issues regarding hazardous substances on some of our real estate and we have put in place a remedial plan at each site where we believe such a plan is necessary (see Note 17 “Contingencies” of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”). We regularly make capital and operating expenditures to stay in compliance with environmental laws. In particular, we have managed a testing and removal program since 1988 for our underground storage tanks. Despite these compliance efforts, risk of environmental liability is part of the nature of our business. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. We cannot assure you that future compliance with these regulations, future environmental liabilities, the cost of defending environmental claims, conducting any environmental remediation or generally resolving liabilities caused by us or related third parties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with our industry. Our business is seasonal and our results of operations and cash flows fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Historically, revenues have been stronger in the first and second fiscal quarters due to the overall increase in moving activity during the spring and summer months. The fourth fiscal quarter is generally weakest, due to a greater potential for adverse weather conditions and other factors that are not necessarily seasonal. As a result, our operating results for a quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year. We obtain our rental trucks from a limited number of manufacturers. In the last ten years, we purchased most of our rental trucks from Ford Motor Company and General Motors Corporation. Although we believe that we could obtain alternative sources of supply for our rental trucks, termination of one or both of our relationships with these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations for an indefinite period of time or we may not be able to obtain rental trucks under similar terms, if at all. A.M Best financial strength ratings are crucial to our life insurance business. A.M. Best downgraded Oxford and its subsidiaries during AMERCO’s restructuring to C+. Upon AMERCO’s emergence from bankruptcy in March 2004, Oxford and its subsidiaries were upgraded to B-. The ratings were again upgraded in October 2004 to B, in October 2005 to B+, and in November 2006 Oxford and Christian Fidelity were upgraded to B++ with a stable outlook. Prior to AMERCO’s restructuring, Oxford was rated B++. Financial strength ratings are important external factors that can affect the success of Oxford’s business plans. Accordingly, if Oxford’s ratings, relative to its competitors, do not continue to improve, Oxford may not be able to retain and attract business as currently planned. We bear certain risks related to our notes receivable from SAC Holdings. At March 31, 2007, we held approximately $203.7 million of notes receivable from SAC Holdings, of which $75.1 million is with SAC Holding II and has been eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. SAC Holdings is highly leveraged with significant indebtedness to others. We hold various junior unsecured notes of SAC Holdings. If SAC Holdings is unable to meet its obligations to its senior lenders, it could trigger a default of its obligations to us. In such an event of default, we could suffer a loss to the extent the value of the underlying collateral of SAC Holdings is inadequate to repay SAC Holding’s senior lenders and our junior unsecured notes. We cannot assure you that SAC Holdings will not default on its loans to its senior lenders or that the value of SAC Holdings assets upon liquidation would be sufficient to repay us in full. 9 We are highly leveraged. As of March 31, 2007 we had total debt outstanding of $1,181.2 million. Although we believe that additional leverage can be supported by the Company’s operations, our existing debt could impact us in the following ways: · require us to allocate a considerable portion of cash flows from operations to debt service payments · limit our ability to obtain additional financing · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have less debt Our ability to make payments on our debt depends upon our ability to maintain and improve our operating performance and generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt and meet our other cash needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. If we must sell our assets, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenue. In addition, we may incur additional debt that would exacerbate the risks associated with our indebtedness. We operate in a highly regulated industry and changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Our truck and trailer rental business is subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign governmental entities. Specifically, the U.S. Department of Transportation and various state and federal agencies exercise broad powers over our motor carrier operations, safety, and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste materials. In addition, our storage business is also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. The failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent such property or to use the property as collateral for future borrowings. Compliance with changing regulations could substantially impair real property and equipment productivity and increase our costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved staff comments at March 31, 2007. Item 