Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. These risk factors may be important in understanding this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The truck rental industry is highly competitive and includes a number of significant national, regional and local competitors. We believe the principal competitive factors in this industry are convenience of rental locations, availability of quality rental moving equipment, breadth of essential services and products and total cost. Financial results for the Company can be adversely impacted by aggressive pricing from our competitors. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than we have. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain existing rental prices or implement price increases. Moreover, if our competitors reduce prices and we are not able or willing to do so as well, we may lose rental volume, which would likely have a materially adverse affect on our results of operations. The self-storage industry is large and highly fragmented. We believe the principal competitive factors in this industry are convenience of storage rental locations, cleanliness, security and price. Competition in 7 the market areas in which we operate is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses of our facilities. Competition might cause us to experience a decrease in occupancy levels, limit our ability to raise rental rates or require us to offer discounted rates that would have a material affect on results of operations and financial condition. Entry into the self-storage business may be accomplished through the acquisition of existing facilities by persons or institutions with the required initial capital. Development of new self-storage facilities is more difficult however, due to land use, zoning, environmental and other regulatory requirements. The self-storage industry has in the past experienced overbuilding in response to perceived increases in demand. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete in existing markets or expand into new markets. We are highly leveraged. As of March 31, 2011, we had total debt outstanding of $1,397.8 million and total undiscounted lease commitments of $398.8 million. Although we believe that additional leverage can be supported by the Company’s operations, our existing debt could impact us in the following ways among other considerations: · require us to allocate a considerable portion of cash flows from operations to debt service payments; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing; and · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have less debt. Our ability to make payments on our debt depends upon our ability to maintain and improve our operating performance and generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt and meet our other cash needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. If we must sell our assets, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenue. In addition, we may incur additional debt that would exacerbate the risks associated with our indebtedness. Economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States economy has undergone a period of slowdown and unprecedented volatility, which resulted in a recession. It is difficult to gauge the pace of the economic recovery or if such recovery may weaken in the future. Consumer and commercial spending is generally affected by the health of the economy. Our industries, although not as traditionally cyclical as some, could experience significant downturns in connection with or in anticipation of, declines, or sustained lack of recovery, in general economic conditions. In times of declining consumer spending we may be driven, along with our competitors, to reduce pricing which would have a negative impact on gross profit. We cannot predict if another downturn, or sustained lack of recovery, in the economy may occur which could result in reduced revenues and working capital. Should credit markets in the United States tighten or if interest rates increase significantly we may not be able to refinance existing debt or find additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. If one or more of the financial institutions that support our existing credit facilities fails, we may not be able to find a replacement, which would negatively impact our ability to borrow under credit facilities. While we believe that we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirement for working capital, debt servicing and capital expenditures through fiscal 2012, if our operating results were to worsen significantly and our cash flows or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 8 Our fleet rotation program can be adversely affected by financial market conditions. To meet the needs of our customers, U-Haul maintains a large fleet of rental equipment. Our rental truck fleet rotation program is funded internally through operations and externally from debt and lease financing. Our ability to fund our routine fleet program could be adversely affected if financial market conditions limit the general availability of external financing. This could lead to the Company operating trucks longer than initially planned and/or reducing the size of the fleet, either of which could materially and negatively affect our results of operations. Another important aspect of our fleet rotation program is the sale of used rental equipment. The sale of used equipment provides the organization with funds that can be used to purchase new equipment. Conditions may arise that could lead to the decrease in resale values for our used equipment. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, which would result in losses on the sale of equipment and decreases in cash flows from the sales of equipment. We obtain our rental trucks from a limited number of manufacturers. Over the last ten years, we purchased the majority of our rental trucks from Ford Motor Company and General Motors Corporation. Our fleet can be negatively affected by issues our manufacturers may face within their own supply chain. Also, it is possible that our suppliers may face financial difficulties or organizational changes which could negatively impact their ability to accept future orders or fulfill existing orders. Although we believe that we could contract with alternative manufacturers for our rental trucks, we cannot guarantee or predict how long that would take. In addition, termination of our existing relationship with these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations for an indefinite period of time. We seek to effectively hedge against interest rate changes in our variable debt. In certain instances, the Company seeks to manage its exposure to interest rate risk through the use of hedging instruments including interest rate swap agreements and forward swaps. The Company enters into these arrangements with counterparties that are significant financial institutions with whom we generally have other financial arrangements. We are exposed to credit risk should these counterparties not be able to perform on their obligations. Additionally, a failure on our part to effectively hedge against interest rate changes may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to record these financial instruments at their fair value. Changes in interest rates can significantly impact the valuation of the instruments resulting in non-cash changes to our financial position. We are controlled by a small contingent of stockholders. As of March 31, 2011, Edward J. Shoen, President and Chairman of the Board of AMERCO, James P. Shoen, a director of AMERCO, and Mark V. Shoen, an executive officer of U-Haul, collectively are the owners of 9,222,191 shares (approximately 47.0%) of the outstanding common shares of AMERCO. In addition, Edward J. Shoen, James P. Shoen, Mark V. Shoen, Rosmarie T. Donovan (Trustee of the Shoen Irrevocable Trusts) and Dunham Trust Company (Successor Trustee of the Irrevocable “C” Trusts) (collectively, the “Reporting Persons”) are parties to a stockholder agreement dated June 30, 2006 in which the Reporting Persons agreed to vote as one as provided in this agreement (the “Stockholder Agreement”). Pursuant to the Stockholder Agreement, a collective 10,896,914 shares (approximately 55.6%) of the Company’s common stock are voted at the direction of a majority in interest of the Reporting Persons. For additional information, refer to the Schedule 13Ds filed on July 13, 2006, March 9, 2007 and on June 26, 2009 with the SEC. In addition, 1,568,010 shares (approximately 8.0%) of the outstanding common shares of AMERCO are held by our Employee Savings and Employee Stock Ownership Trust. As a result of their stock ownership and the Stockholder Agreement, Edward J. Shoen, Mark V. Shoen and James P. Shoen are in a position to significantly influence the business affairs and policies of the Company, including the approval of significant transactions, the election of the members of the Board and other matters submitted to our stockholders. There can be no assurance that the interests of the Reporting Persons will not conflict with the interest of our other stockholders. Furthermore, as a result of the Reporting Persons’ voting power, the Company is a “controlled company” as defined in the Nasdaq Listing Rules and, therefore, may avail itself of certain exemptions under Nasdaq rules, including 9 exemptions from the rules that require the Company to have (i) a majority of independent directors on the Board; (ii) independent director oversight of executive officer compensation; and (iii) independent director oversight of director nominations. Of the above available exemptions, the Company currently avails itself to the exemption from independent director oversight of executive officer compensation, other than with respect to the compensation of the President of AMERCO. We bear certain risks related to our notes receivable from SAC Holdings. At March 31, 2011, we held approximately $196.2 million of notes receivable from SAC Holding Corporation and its subsidiaries (“SAC Holding Corporation”) and SAC Holding II Corporation and its subsidiaries (“SAC Holding II”) (collectively “SAC Holdings”), which consist of junior unsecured notes. SAC Holdings is highly leveraged with significant indebtedness to others. If SAC Holdings is unable to meet its obligations to its senior lenders, it could trigger a default of its obligations to us. In such an event of default, we could suffer a loss to the extent the value of the underlying collateral of SAC Holdings is inadequate to repay SAC Holding’s senior lenders and our junior unsecured notes. We cannot assure you that SAC Holdings will not default on its loans to its senior lenders or that the value of SAC Holdings assets upon liquidation would be sufficient to repay us in full. Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with our industry. Our business is seasonal and our results of operations and cash flows fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Historically, revenues have been stronger in the first and second fiscal quarters due to the overall increase in moving activity during the spring and summer months. The fourth fiscal quarter is generally weakest, due to a greater potential for adverse weather conditions and other factors that are not necessarily seasonal. As a result, our operating results for a given quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year. Our operations subject us to numerous environmental regulations and the possibility that environmental liability in the future could adversely affect our operations. Compliance with environmental requirements of federal, state and local governments significantly affects our business. Among other things, these requirements regulate the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances. Under environmental laws or common law principles, we can be held liable for hazardous substances that are found on real property we have owned or operated. We are aware of issues regarding hazardous substances on some of our real estate and we have put in place a remediation plan at each site where we believe such a plan is necessary. See Note 19, Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We regularly make capital and operating expenditures to stay in compliance with environmental laws. In particular, we have managed a testing and removal program since 1988 for our underground storage tanks. Despite these compliance efforts, we believe that risk of environmental liability is part of the nature of our business. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. We cannot assure you that future compliance with these regulations, future environmental liabilities, the cost of defending environmental claims, conducting any environmental remediation or generally resolving liabilities caused by us or related third parties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry and changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Our truck and trailer rental business is subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign governmental entities. Specifically, the U.S. Department of Transportation and various state and federal agencies exercise broad powers over our motor carrier operations, safety, and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste materials. In addition, our storage business is also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. The failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent such property or to use the property as collateral for future borrowings. Compliance with changing regulations could substantially impair real property and equipment productivity and increase our costs. 10 In addition, the Federal government may institute some regulation that limits carbon emissions by setting a maximum amount of carbon entities can emit without penalty. This would likely affect everyone who uses fossil fuels and would disproportionately affect users in the highway transportation industries. While there are too many variables at this time to assess the impact of the various proposed federal and state regulations that could affect carbon emissions, many experts believe these proposed rules could significantly affect the way companies operate in their industries. Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and changes in laws or other labor issues could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. The success of our business is predicated upon our workforce providing excellent customer service. Our ability to attract and retain this employee base may be inhibited due to prevailing wage rates, benefit costs and the adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. Should this occur we may be unable to provide service in certain areas or we may experience significantly increased costs of labor that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are highly dependent upon our automated systems and the Internet for managing our business. Our information systems are largely Internet-based, including our point-of-sale reservation system and telephone systems. While our reliance on this technology lowers our cost of providing service and expands our abilities to serve, it exposes the Company to various risks including natural and man-made disasters. We have put into place backup systems and alternative procedures to mitigate this risk. However, disruptions or breaches in any portion of these systems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A.M. Best financial strength ratings are crucial to our life insurance business. In April 2011, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating for Oxford, Christian Fidelity Life Insurance Company, North American Insurance Company and Dallas General Life Insurance Company (“DGLIC”) of B++ with a stable outlook. Financial strength ratings are important external factors that can affect the success of Oxford’s business plans. Accordingly, if Oxford’s ratings, relative to its competitors, are not maintained or do not continue to improve, Oxford may not be able to retain and attract business as currently planned, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may incur losses due to our reinsurers’ or counterparties’ failure to perform under existing contracts or we may be unable to secure sufficient reinsurance or hedging protection in the future. We use reinsurance and derivative contracts to mitigate our risk of loss in various circumstances; primarily at Repwest and for our Moving and Storage operating segment. These agreements do not release us from our primary obligations and therefore we remain ultimately responsible for these potential costs. We cannot provide assurance that these reinsurers or counterparties will fulfill their obligations. Their inability or unwillingness to make payments to us under the terms of the contracts may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. At December 31, 2010, Repwest reported $1.0 million of reinsurance recoverables, net of allowances and $167.3 million of reserves and liabilities ceded to reinsurers. Of this, our largest exposure to a single reinsurer was $53.7 million. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved staff comments at March 31, 2011. 