ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations. The risk factors set forth below are applicable to our company. You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating our company and our operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially adversely affect, among other things, our business, results of operations and financial condition. -7- The pending merger pursuant to which MFW would acquire the Company may be delayed or may not close. We have announced that the merger with MFW is expected to close in the second half of 2007. The closing is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act ("HSR Act") and the approval of the merger by our shareholders. The timing of such events and the closing of the merger are subject to factors beyond our control. The Department of Justice will review filings required under the HSR Act, may request additional information and may not approve the merger. While our board of directors has recommended that shareholders approve the merger agreement, we can not predict the outcome of the shareholders' vote. The merger will not close if approval is not received from both the Department of Justice and our shareholders. The pending merger pursuant to which MFW would acquire the Company could negatively affect our operations. The efforts of management in connection with the pending merger and the uncertainty of our future while the merger is pending could result in the loss of existing customers and key employees. Such conditions could also affect our ability to add new customers and key employees. Possible violation of information security requirements and privacy laws could damage our business and negatively affect our reputation. We are subject to federal regulations implementing the information security requirements of the GLB Act and other federal regulations and state laws regarding the privacy and confidentiality of consumer information. These laws and regulations require us to develop, implement and maintain a comprehensive information security program designed to protect the security and confidentiality of consumer nonpublic personal information and to define requirements for notification in the event of improper disclosure. Violation of these laws and regulations could damage our business and negatively affect our reputation. We rely on licensed network and Internet security systems to ensure the secure transmission of data. Computer networks generally, as well as the Internet, are vulnerable to unauthorized access and other illegal use thereof. It is possible that the increased sophistication of these improper activities could compromise our security measures, interrupt our services or those of our customers and possibly result in liability to us. Any related disclosure of these problems could adversely affect our reputation, potentially impacting our business. Future legislation relating to the Internet, e-commerce or marketing practices generally relating to consumer privacy could impede the growth of the Internet or the use of other sale channels. Revenue decline and increased expenses could occur in Printed Products. Many variables will impact our ability to achieve sales levels, improve service quality, achieve production efficiencies and reduce expenses in Printed Products. These include, but are not limited to, the successful implementation of new accounts and the continuing upgrade of our customer care infrastructure and systems used in our manufacturing, sales, marketing, customer service and call center operations. Check volumes have declined on an industry-wide basis in recent years, and alternative payment systems will continue to impact Printed Products results. Several factors beyond our control could negatively impact check revenues. The check printing business is a mature industry, and it is anticipated that the total number of checks written by individuals and businesses in the United States will continue to decline due in part to the -8- continuing expansion of alternative payment systems such as credit cards, debit cards and other forms of electronic commerce or on-line payment systems. We believe the annual rate of decline in the checks market is in the 4% to 5% range. Consolidation of financial institutions increases competitive pressures and may result in the loss of customers. There has been significant consolidation in the financial institution industry in recent years. Profit margin pressures arise from such consolidations as merged entities seek additional discounts due to the increased volume resulting from the consolidation. The increase in bargaining power from such consolidated financial institutions also presents a risk that new contracts may be subject to increased pricing pressures. Check revenues may continue to be adversely affected by continued consolidation of financial institutions, resulting in competitive check pricing including significant up-front contract incentive payments or customer rebates. Additionally, existing customers could be acquired by financial institutions that are not one of our customers which could result in the loss of existing customers. We may lose significant customers and any such losses may not be offset by the addition of new customers. Competition may result in price reductions and/or decreased demand for our products and services. Printed Products faces strong competition from other check printers, one of whom is substantially larger than us. Printed Products also competes in the check area with direct mailers, sellers of business checks and forms, check printer software vendors and internet-based vendors. This competition creates pricing pressures which could impact profit margins and, at times, could result in the loss of customers. Competition in the market served by Software & Services is also strong and certain of its competitors have greater resources and a larger customer base. Software & Services may not achieve satisfactory levels of organic growth. While we believe growth opportunities exist in Software & Services, there can be no assurances that we will achieve our revenue or earnings growth targets. We believe there are many risk factors inherent in our Software & Services business, including but not limited to the retention of employee talent and customers. Revenues may continue to be adversely affected by continued consolidation of financial institutions. Also, variables exist in the development of new Software & Services products, including the timing and costs of the development effort, product performance, functionality, product acceptance, competition and our ability to integrate acquired companies. Software & Services provides services to its customers which are subject to government regulations that could constrain its operations. The financial services sector is subject to various federal and state regulations and oversight. As a supplier of services to financial institutions, certain Software & Services operations are examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the National Credit Union Administration, among other agencies. These agencies regulate services we provide and the manner in which we operate, and we are required to comply with a broad range of applicable laws and regulations. Current laws and regulations may be amended in the future or interpreted by regulators in a manner which could negatively impact our current Software & Services operations or limit its future growth. -9- Scantron needs to successfully develop new products and solutions. Several factors outside of our control could affect results in Scantron. These include the rate of adoption of new electronic data collection solutions and testing and assessment methods, which could negatively impact forms, scanner sales, software and related service revenue. We continue to develop products and services that we believe offer state-of-the-art electronic data collection and testing and assessment solutions. However, variables exist in the development of new testing methods and technologies, including the timing and costs of the development effort, product performance, functionality, market acceptance, adoption rates and competition, all of which could have a negative impact on our business. Budget deficits may reduce funding available for purchasing Scantron products and services. Scantron derives a significant portion of its revenues from public schools and colleges, which are heavily dependent on local, state and federal governments for financial support. Government budget deficits may negatively impact the availability of funding for Scantron products. Budget deficits experienced by schools or colleges may also cause those institutions to react negatively to future price increases for Scantron products. Tax examinations and audits could unfavorably affect our tax expense. As a matter of due course, we are subject to various federal and state tax examinations. We believe that we are in compliance with applicable federal and state tax regulations and that the returns and reports filed with respect to such tax regulations are materially correct. The results of these various federal and state tax examinations could produce both favorable and unfavorable adjustments to our total tax expense either currently or on a deferred basis. At such time when a favorable or unfavorable adjustment is known, the effect on our consolidated financial statements is recorded. We may be subject to environmental risks relating to our printing plants. Our check printing facilities are subject to various federal and state environmental regulations. We have sold many printing facilities to third parties and also leased several such facilities in the past. Despite the fact that we no longer occupy such former facilities, we remain potentially liable for environmental remediation costs associated with those sites. It is possible that we may be named as a potentially responsible party in connection with any environmental proceedings relating to such sites. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 