ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this report. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results, would likely suffer. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not yet identified or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Risks Relating to Our Business - ------------------------------ The industry in which Amexdrug operates is highly competitive and could affect our results of operations. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and is marked by changes and new products. Our competitors and potential competitors include many large national and international companies as well as medium and small sized companies. Most existing and potential competitors have greater financial resources, larger market share, and larger production and research capability, which may enable them to establish and/or maintain a stronger competitive position than we have. If we fail to address competitive developments quickly and effectively, we will not be able to grow our business or remain a viable entity. Our business could be adversely affected by any adverse economic developments in wholesale pharmaceutical distribution and health and beauty products. We depend on the demand for our products in the U.S. Therefore, our business is susceptible to downturns in the wholesale pharmaceutical distribution and health and beauty products industry and the economy in general. Any significant downturn or worsening in the market or in general economic conditions would likely hurt our business. If we fail to keep up with changes affecting our products, we will become less competitive and thus adversely affect future financial performance. In order to remain competitive, we must respond on a timely and cost-efficient basis to changes in our industry in general, industry standards and procedures and customer preferences. Management believes that to remain competitive, we will need to continuously obtain and/or develop new products and applications for existing products. In some cases these changes may be significant and the cost to comply with these changes may be substantial. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to any changes in the future or that we will have the financial resources to keep up with changes in the marketplace. Also, the cost of adapting to any changes in our products may have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. 15 Our business could be adversely affected by local, state, national, international laws or regulations. Our future success depends in part on laws and regulations that exist, or are expected to be enacted in the geographical areas where we do business. These laws and regulations could negatively affect our business and anticipated revenues. We cannot guarantee a positive outcome in direction, timing, or scope of laws and regulations that may be enacted which will affect our business. Our future success depends on retaining our existing key employees and hiring and assimilating new key employees. The loss of key employees or the inability to attract new key employees could limit our ability to execute our growth strategy, resulting in lost sales and a slower rate of growth. Our future success depends in part on our ability to retain our key employees including our president. We do not presently have employment agreements with our executives, each executive may be able to terminate his or her agreement at any time. It would be difficult for us to replace our president. In addition, as we grow we may need to hire additional key personnel. We may not be able to identify and attract high quality employees or successfully assimilate new employees into our existing management structure. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately or cost effectively, which may cause us to lose market share or reduce prices. Our future success depends in part on our ability to protect and preserve proprietary rights related to our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property rights and technology without our authorization. We have not obtained any patents on our products. We rely on trade secrets, common law trademark rights and trademark registrations. We may also employ confidentiality and work for hire, development, assignment and license agreements with employees, consultants, third party developers, licensees and customers. However, these measures afford only limited protection and may be flawed or inadequate. Also, enforcing intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming and could distract management's attention from operating business matters. Our intellectual property may infringe on the rights of others, resulting in costly litigation. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, there has been an increase in the filing of suits alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, which pressure defendants into entering settlement arrangements quickly to dispose of such suits, regardless of their merits. Other companies or individuals may allege that we infringe on their intellectual property rights. Litigation, particularly in the area of intellectual property rights, is costly and the outcome is inherently uncertain. In the event of an adverse result against future rights we may acquire, we could be liable for substantial damages and we may be forced to discontinue our use of the subject matter in question or obtain a license to use those rights or develop non-infringing alternatives. Any of these results would increase our cash expenditures, adversely affecting our financial condition. 16 Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock We cannot assure you that there will be an active trading market for our common stock and it could be difficult for holders of our common stock to liquidate their shares. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The price of our shares has been volatile, our shares are thinly traded, and liquidation of a person's holdings may be difficult. Thus, holders of our common stock may be required to retain their shares for a long period of time. We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future, which could make our stock less attractive to potential investors. We anticipate that we will retain any future earnings and other cash resources for future operations and development of our business and do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account many factors, including our operating results, financial condition and capital requirements. Corporations that pay dividends may be viewed as a better investment than corporations that do not. Future sales or the potential for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause our market value to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, and this could depress our stock price. Under Nevada corporate law, we are permitted to include or exclude certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and/or by-laws that could discourage information contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. For example: o Under Nevada law, we are not required to provide for, and our by-laws do not provide for, cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and o Stockholders cannot call a special meeting of stockholders unless they, in the aggregate, hold at least 10% of our common stock. Trading in our shares is subject to certain "penny stock" regulation which could have a negative effect on the price of our shares in the public trading market. Public trading of our common stock on the OTCBB is subject to certain provisions, commonly referred to as the penny stock rule, promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A penny stock is generally defined to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our stock is deemed to be a penny stock, trading in our stock will be subject to additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers. These may require a broker dealer to: 17 o make a special suitability determination for purchasers of penny stocks; o receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase; and o deliver to a prospective purchaser of a penny stock, prior to the first transaction, a risk disclosure document relating to the penny stock market. Consequently, penny stock rules restrict the ability of broker-dealers to trade and/or maintain a market in our common stock. Also, many prospective investors may not want to get involved with the additional administrative requirements, which may have a material adverse effect on the trading of our shares. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Not applicable. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 