Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to materially differ from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and in other documents the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Market risk. In the normal course of business, the Company is routinely subjected to a variety of risks. In addition to the market risk associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-U.S. dollar-denominated assets and liabilities, other examples of risk include customer concentration in the Harsco Metals & Minerals and Harsco Rail Segments; collectability of receivables; volatility of the financial markets and their effect on customer liquidity and pension plans; and global economic and political conditions. The global financial markets experienced extreme disruption in the last half of 2008 through 2010, including, among other things, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability for many business entities; declines in consumer confidence; negative economic growth; declines in real estate values; increases in unemployment rates; significant volatility in equities; rating agency downgrades and uncertainty about economic stability. Governments across the globe have taken aggressive actions, including economic stimulus programs and austerity measures, intended to address these difficult market conditions. These economic uncertainties affect the Company's businesses in a number of ways, making it more difficult to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. From time to time, disruption in the credit markets has severely restricted access to capital for many companies. When credit markets deteriorate, the Company's ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund operations or refinance maturing obligations as they become due may be constrained. The Company is unable to predict any duration or severity of disruptions in the credit and financial markets and adverse global economic conditions. While these conditions have not impaired the Company's ability to access credit markets and finance operations, a deterioration of economic conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. Negative economic conditions may adversely impact the demand for the Company's services, and the ability of the Company's customers to meet their obligations to the Company on a timely basis. Any disputes with customers could also have an adverse impact on the Company's income and cash flows. Tightening of credit in financial markets may lead businesses to postpone spending, which may impact the Company's customers, causing them to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with the Company. Declines in economic conditions may further impact the ability of the Company's customers to meet their obligations to the Company on a timely basis and could result in bankruptcy filings by them. If customers are unable to meet their obligations on a timely basis, it could adversely impact the realizability of receivables, the valuation of inventories and the valuation of long-lived assets across the Company's businesses. The risk remains that certain significant Harsco Metals & Minerals customers may file for bankruptcy protection, be acquired or consolidate in the future. Additionally, the Company may be negatively affected by contractual disputes with customers, including attempts by customers to unilaterally change the terms and pricing of certain contracts to their sole advantage without adequate consideration to the Company, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's income and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents If the Company cannot generate future cash flows at a level sufficient to recover the net book value of any of its reporting units, the Company may be required to record an impairment charge to its earnings. As a result of the Company's goodwill impairment testing, the Company may be required to record future impairment charges to the extent the Company cannot generate future cash flows at a level sufficient to recover the net book value of any of the Company's reporting units. At October 1, 2010, the fair value of all reporting units exceeded their carrying value. For the Harsco Infrastructure Segment reporting unit, the fair value exceeded the carrying value by approximately 4%. The Company's estimates of fair value are based on assumptions about the future operating cash flows and growth rates of each reporting unit, discount rates applied to these cash flows and current market estimates of value. Based on the uncertainty of future growth rates and other assumptions used to estimate goodwill recoverability, future reductions in the Company's expected cash flows for the Harsco Infrastructure Segment could cause a material non-cash impairment charge of goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 5, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," for additional disclosure related to these items. The Company's global presence subjects it to a variety of risks arising from doing business internationally. The Company operates in over 50 countries, including the United States. The Company's global footprint exposes it to a variety of risks that may adversely affect results of operations, cash flows or financial position. These include, but may not be limited to, the following: •periodic economic downturns in the countries in which the Company does business; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls and hard currency shortages; •customs matters and changes in trade policy or tariff regulations; •changes in regulatory requirements in the countries in which the Company does business; •changes in tax regulations, higher tax rates in certain jurisdictions and potentially adverse tax consequences including restrictions on repatriating earnings, adverse tax withholding requirements and "double taxation"; •longer payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; •complexities in complying with a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations; •political, economic and social instability, civil and political unrest, terrorist actions and armed hostilities in the regions or countries in which the Company does business; •inflation rates in the countries in which the Company does business; •laws in various international jurisdictions that limit the right and ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met; •sovereign risk related to foreign governments and the potential risks that include, but may not be limited to, that those governments stop paying interest or repudiate their debt, that they nationalize their private businesses or that they alter their foreign-exchange regulations; and, •uncertainties arising from local business practices, cultural considerations and international political and trade tensions. The Company operates in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. Accordingly, in certain circumstances, 11 Table of Contents strict compliance with local laws and anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. If the Company is unable to successfully manage the risks associated with its global business, the Company's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations may be negatively impacted. The Company has operations in several countries in the Middle East, including Bahrain, Egypt, Israel, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, as well as India, some of which are currently experiencing armed hostilities and civil unrest. Additionally, these countries are geographically close to other countries that may have a continued high risk of armed hostilities or civil unrest. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company's Middle East operations contributed approximately $18.6 million, $71.8 million and $66.7 million, respectively, to the Company's operating income. Additionally, the Company has operations in and sales to countries that have encountered outbreaks of communicable diseases. In countries in which such outbreaks occur, worsen or spread to other countries, the Company may be negatively impacted through reduced sales to and within those countries and other countries impacted by such diseases. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact the Company's business. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the over 46 other currencies in which the Company conducts business may adversely impact the Company's operating income and income from continuing operations in any given fiscal period. Approximately 67% and 66% of the Company's sales and approximately 23% and 52% of the Company's operating income from continuing operations for 2010 and 2009, respectively, were derived from operations outside the United States. More specifically, approximately 25% and 27% of the Company's revenues were derived from operations with the euro as their functional currency during 2010 and 2009, respectively. Additionally, approximately 14% and 15% of the Company's revenues were derived from operations in the United Kingdom during 2010 and 2009, respectively. Given the structure of the Company's revenues and expenses, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which the Company earns its revenues generally has a negative impact on operating income, whereas a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar tends to have the opposite effect. The Company's principal foreign currency exposures are to the euro and the British pound sterling. Compared with the corresponding period in 2009, the average values of major currencies changed as follows in relation to the U.S. dollar during 2010, impacting the Company's sales and income: • British pound sterling weakened by 1% • euro weakened by 5% • South African rand strengthened by 12% • Brazilian real strengthened by 11% • Canadian dollar strengthened by 9% • Australian dollar strengthened by 15% • Polish zloty strengthened by 3% Compared with exchange rates at December 31, 2009, the values of major currencies at December 31, 2010 changed as follows: • British pound sterling weakened by 4% • euro weakened by 7% • South African rand strengthened by 11% • Brazilian real strengthened by 5% • Canadian dollar strengthened by 5% • Australian dollar strengthened by 12% • Polish zloty weakened by 3% 12 Table of Contents The Company's foreign currency exposures increase the risk of income statement, balance sheet and cash flow volatility. If the above currencies change materially in relation to the U.S. dollar, the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows may be materially affected. To illustrate the effect of foreign currency exchange rate changes in certain key markets of the Company, in 2010, revenues would have been approximately 0.3%, or $8.8 million, higher and operating income would have been approximately 4.9%, or $3.9 million, lower if the average exchange rates for 2009 were utilized. A similar comparison for 2009 would have increased revenues approximately 8.5% or $254.7 million, while operating income would have been approximately 14.0%, or $30.6 million, higher if the average exchange rates for 2009 would have remained the same as 2008. If the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to the euro and British pound sterling, the Company would generally expect to see a positive effect on future sales and income from continuing operations as a result of foreign currency translation. Currency changes also result in assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into U.S. dollars at different amounts than at the prior period end. If the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to currencies in countries in which the Company does business, the translated amounts of the related assets and liabilities, and therefore stockholders' equity, would increase. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to currencies in countries in which the Company does business, the translated amounts of the related assets, liabilities, and therefore stockholders' equity, would decrease. Although the Company engages in foreign currency forward exchange contracts and other hedging strategies to mitigate foreign exchange risk, hedging strategies may not be successful or may fail to completely offset the risk. The Company has a Foreign Currency Risk Management Committee that develops and implements strategies to mitigate these risks. In addition, competitive conditions in the Company's manufacturing businesses may limit the Company's ability to increase product prices in the face of adverse currency movements. Sales of products manufactured in the United States for the domestic and export markets may be affected by the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. Any long-term strengthening of the U.S. dollar could depress demand for these products and reduce sales and may cause translation gains or losses due to the revaluation of accounts payable, accounts receivable and other asset and liability accounts. Conversely, any long-term weakening of the U.S. dollar could improve demand for these products and increase sales and may cause translation gains or losses due to the revaluation of accounts payable, accounts receivable and other asset and liability accounts. Cyclical industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the Company's businesses. The Company's businesses are subject to general economic slowdowns and cyclical conditions in the industries served. In particular: •The Company's Harsco Infrastructure Segment may be adversely impacted by slowdowns in non-residential, multi-dwelling residential or infrastructure construction and annual industrial and building maintenance cycles; •The Company's Harsco Metals & Minerals Segment may be adversely impacted by slowdowns in steel mill production, excess capacity, consolidation or bankruptcy of steel producers or a reversal or slowing of current outsourcing trends in the steel industry; •The Company's Harsco Rail Segment may be adversely impacted by developments in the railroad industry that lead to lower capital spending or reduced maintenance spending; •The reclamation recycling services business of the Harsco Metals & Minerals Segment may be adversely impacted by slowdowns in customer production or a reduction in the selling price of its materials, which is market-based and varies based upon the current fair value of the 13 Table of Contents components being sold. Therefore, the revenue amounts generated from the sale of such recycled materials vary based upon the fair value of the commodity components being sold; •The roofing granules and abrasives business of the Harsco Metals & Minerals Segment may be adversely impacted by reduced home resales or economic conditions that slow the rate of residential roof replacement, or by slowdowns in the industrial and infrastructure refurbishment industries; •The industrial grating products business of the Harsco Industrial Segment may be adversely impacted by slowdowns in non-residential construction and industrial production; •The air-cooled heat exchangers business of the Harsco Industrial Segment is affected by cyclical conditions present in the natural gas industry. Therefore, a slowdown in natural gas drilling or production could adversely affect this business; •The Company's access to capital and the associated costs of borrowing may be adversely impacted by the tightening of credit markets. Capital constraints and increased borrowing costs may also adversely impact the financial position and operations of the Company's customers across all business segments. Such customer capital constraints may result in cancelled or postponed construction projects negatively affecting the Harsco Infrastructure Segment. The seasonality of the Company's business may cause its quarterly results to fluctuate. The Company has historically generated the majority of its cash flows provided by operations in the second half of the year. This is a result of normally higher income during the second half of the year, as the Company's business tends to follow seasonal patterns. If the Company is unable to successfully manage the cash flow and other effects of seasonality on the business, its results of operations may suffer. The Company's historical revenue patterns and net cash provided by operating activities are included in Part I, Item 1, "Business." The Company may lose customers or be required to reduce prices as a result of competition. The industries in which the Company operates are highly competitive. •The Harsco Infrastructure Segment rents and sells equipment and provides erection and dismantling services to principally the non-residential and infrastructure construction and industrial plant maintenance markets. Contracts are awarded based upon the Company's engineering capabilities, product availability and efficiency, safety record, and the ability to competitively price its rentals and services. If the Company is unable to consistently provide high-quality products and services at competitive prices, it may lose customers or operating margins may decline due to reduced selling prices. •The Harsco Metals & Minerals Segment is sustained mainly through contract renewals. Historically, the Company has a high contract renewal rate. If the Company is unable to renew its contracts at the historical rates or renewals are at reduced prices, revenue and operating profits may decline. Additionally, the Company has exited certain underperforming contracts in an effort to improve overall profitability. The Company will continue to exit underperforming contracts as considered necessary to achieving its strategic initiatives. •The Harsco Rail Segment and the Harsco Industrial Segment compete with companies that manufacture similar products both internationally and domestically. Certain international competitors export their products into the United States and sell them at lower prices due to lower labor costs and government subsidies for exports. Such practices may limit the prices the Company can charge for its products and services. Additionally, unfavorable foreign exchange rates can adversely impact the Company's ability to match the prices charged by international 14 Table of Contents competitors. If the Company is unable to match the prices charged by international competitors, it may lose customers. The Company's strategy to overcome this competition includes enterprise business continuous improvement programs; provision of new technologies, services and solutions to customers; global sourcing programs, international customer expansion, particularity in emerging economies; and the diversification, streamlining and consolidation of operations. Increased customer concentration and related credit, commercial and legal risk may adversely impact the Company's future earnings and cash flows. •The Harsco Metals & Minerals Segment and, to a lesser extent, the Harsco Rail Segment have several large customers throughout the world with significant accounts receivable balances. Consolidation in the global steel industry has occurred in recent years and additional consolidation is possible. Should additional transactions occur involving some of the steel industry's larger companies which are customers of the Company, it would result in an increase in concentration of credit risk for the Company. If a large customer were to experience financial difficulty, or file for bankruptcy protection, it could adversely impact the Company's income, cash flows and asset valuations. As part of its credit risk management practices, the Company has developed strategies to mitigate, although not eliminate, this increased concentration of credit risk. •In the Harsco Infrastructure Segment, concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are generally limited due to the Company's large number of customers and their dispersion across different geographies. However, continued economic declines in particular regions of the world could result in higher customer defaults and could adversely impact the Company's income, cash flows and asset valuations. The Company has developed strategies to mitigate, but not eliminate, this risk. •The Company is currently party to multiple contracts in numerous countries with its largest customer, ArcelorMittal. These contracts cover a variety of services. From time to time, the Company may be negotiating the terms of current and potential future services to be rendered due to the scope and complexity of this relationship. Disagreements between the parties can arise as a result of the scope and nature of the relationship and these ongoing negotiations. Currently, the Company does not have any disputes with ArcelorMittal that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, but the Company cannot predict that such disputes will not arise in the future. •The Company's businesses may be negatively affected by disputes with customers, including attempts by major customers to unilaterally change the terms and pricing of certain contracts to their sole advantage without adequate consideration to the Company. The Company is subject to changes in legislative, regulatory and legal developments involving income taxes. The Company is subject to U.S. federal, state and international income, payroll, property, sales and use, value-added, fuel, and other types of taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company's worldwide provisions for income taxes. Changes in tax rates, enactments of new tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities could result in substantially higher taxes, and therefore, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Currently, a majority of the Company's revenue is generated from customers located outside the United States, and a substantial portion of the Company's assets and employees are located outside the United States. U.S. income tax and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain non-U.S. subsidiaries as such earnings are indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. 15 Table of Contents In 2011, the Executive Branch of the U.S. Government (the "Administration") expressed a desire to engineer U.S. tax law reform to provide incentives for U.S. companies that expand the U.S. economy through hiring additional workers, investing in renewable energy sources and, more generally, investing in research and development. The Administration has indicated that this reform could be paid for by U.S. corporations doing business outside of the United States. Since 2008, the Administration has expressed an aversion to long-established and widely accepted tax provisions that allow U.S. multi-national corporations to defer U.S. taxes in profits permanently reinvested outside the United States. Although the Administration has indicated that 2011 tax reform may be structured with more of the business community's concerns in mind, the Administration has provided no indication that intended reform will be any more favorable to U.S. multi-national corporations with earnings indefinitely reinvested abroad. Any tax reform that reduces the Company's ability to defer U.S. taxes on profit indefinitely reinvested outside the United States could have a negative impact on the Company's ability to compete in the global marketplace. Consequently, the Company is communicating with legislators with the goal of achieving a balanced and fair approach to tax reform that would benefit the Company and other U.S. job creators. This may include legislative trade-offs between existing tax benefits and a lower overall effective tax rate for U.S. companies. The Company continues to monitor legislation to be in position to fully understand the potential impact on our operations and plan accordingly. The Company's defined benefit net periodic pension cost is directly affected by the equity and bond markets, and a downward trend in those markets could adversely impact the Company's future earnings. In addition to the economic issues that directly affect the Company's businesses, changes in the performance of equity and bond markets, particularly in the United Kingdom and the United States, impact actuarial assumptions used in determining annual net periodic pension cost, pension liabilities and the valuation of the assets in the Company's defined benefit pension plans. Financial market deterioration would most likely have a negative impact on the Company's net periodic pension cost and the accounting for pension assets and liabilities. This could result in a decrease to Stockholders' Equity and an increase in the Company's statutory funding requirements. The Company's earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense the Company records for defined benefit pension plans. The Company calculates income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations that reflect assumptions relating to financial market and other economic conditions. The most significant assumptions used to estimate defined benefit pension income or expense for the upcoming year are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. If there are significant changes in key economic indicators, these assumptions may materially affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. These key economic indicators would also likely affect the amount of cash the Company would contribute to the defined benefit pension plans. For a discussion regarding how the Company's financial statements can be affected by defined benefit pension plan accounting policies, see the Pension Benefits section of the Application of Critical Accounting Policies in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." In response to adverse market conditions during 2002 and 2003, the Company conducted a comprehensive global review of its defined benefit pension plans in order to formulate a strategy to make its long-term pension costs more predictable and affordable. In 2008 and 2009, as a response to worsening economic conditions, the Company implemented design changes for additional defined benefit plans, of which the principal change involved converting future pension benefits for many of the Company's non-union employees in the United Kingdom from a defined benefit plan to a defined contribution plan. The Company's Pension Committee continues to evaluate alternative strategies to further reduce overall net periodic pension cost including: conversion of certain remaining defined benefit plans to defined contribution plans; the ongoing evaluation of investment fund managers' performance; the 16 Table of Contents balancing of plan assets and liabilities; the risk assessment of all multi-employer pension plans; the possible merger of certain plans; the consideration of incremental voluntary cash contributions to certain plans; and other changes that are likely to reduce future net periodic pension cost volatility and minimize risk. In addition to the Company's defined benefit pension plans, the Company also participates in numerous multi-employer pension plans throughout the world. Within the United States, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 may require additional funding for multi-employer plans that could cause the Company to be subject to higher cash contributions in the future. Additionally, market conditions and the number of participating employers remaining in each plan may affect the funded status of multi-employer plans and consequently any Company withdrawal liability, if applicable. The Company continues to monitor and assess any full and partial withdrawal liability implications associated with these plans. Further tightening of credit, as well as downgrades in Harsco's credit ratings, could increase Harsco's cost of borrowing and could adversely affect Harsco's future earnings and ability to access the capital markets. Continued tightening of the credit markets may adversely impact the Company's access to capital and the associated costs of borrowing; however, this is somewhat mitigated by the Company's strong financial position. The Company's cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions but also by the short- and long-term debt ratings assigned to Harsco's debt by the major credit rating agencies. These ratings are based, in part, on the Company's financial position and liquidity as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. See Liquidity and Capital Resources under Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for further discussion on credit ratings and outlook. An inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Restrictions imposed by the Company's credit facilities and outstanding notes may limit the Company's ability to obtain additional financing or to pursue business opportunities. The Company's credit facilities contain a covenant stipulating a maximum debt to capital ratio of 60%. One credit facility also contains a covenant requiring a minimum net worth of $475 million, and another limits the proportion of subsidiary consolidated indebtedness to a maximum of 10% of consolidated tangible assets. These covenants limit the amount of debt the Company may incur, which could limit its ability to obtain additional financing or pursue business opportunities. In addition, the Company's ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond its control. A breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under these credit facilities. In the event of any default under these credit facilities, the lenders under those facilities could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable, which would cause an event of default under the notes. This could, in turn, trigger an event of default under the cross-default provisions of the Company's other outstanding indebtedness. At December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with these covenants with a debt to capital ratio of 37.6% and total net worth of $1.5 billion. Failure of financial institutions to fulfill their commitments under committed credit facilities and derivative financial instruments may adversely affect the Company's future earnings and cash flows. The Company has committed revolving credit facilities with financial institutions available for its use, for which the Company pays commitment fees. One facility is provided by a syndicate of several financial institutions, with each institution agreeing severally (and not jointly) to make revolving credit loans to the Company in accordance with the terms of the related credit agreement. If one or more of the financial institutions providing these committed credit facilities were to default on its obligation to 17 Table of Contents fund its commitment, the portion of the committed facility provided by such defaulting financial institution would not be available to the Company. The Company periodically evaluates the creditworthiness of financial institution counterparties and does not expect default by them. However, given the current global financial environment, such default remains possible. The company uses cross-currency interest rate swaps in conjunction with certain debt issuances in order to secure a fixed local currency interest rate. The Company has foreign currency forward exchange contracts outstanding as part of a worldwide program to minimize foreign currency operating income and balance sheet exposure. Foreign currency forward exchange contracts are used to hedge commitments, such as foreign currency debt, firm purchase commitments and foreign currency cash flows for certain export sales transactions. The Company may also enter into derivative contracts to hedge commodity exposures. The unsecured contracts outstanding at December 31, 2010 mature at various times through 2020 and are with major financial institutions. The Company may be exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by the other parties to the contracts. The Company evaluates the creditworthiness of the counterparties and does not expect default by them. However, given the current global financial environment, such default remains possible. The inability of a counterparty to fulfill its obligation under committed credit facilities or derivative financial instruments may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Liquidity and Capital Resources under Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this report for more information. The Company's cash flows and earnings are subject to changes in interest rates. The Company's total debt at December 31, 2010 was $885.0 million. Of this amount, approximately 4.0% had variable rates of interest and 96.0% had fixed rates of interest. The weighted average interest rate of total debt was approximately 4.70%. At current debt levels, a one percentage point increase/decrease in variable interest rates would increase/decrease interest expense by approximately $0.4 million per year. If the Company is unable to successfully manage its exposure to variable interest rates, its results of operations may be negatively impacted. A negative outcome on personal injury claims against the Company may adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. The Company has been named as one of many defendants (approximately 90 or more in most cases) in legal actions alleging personal injury from exposure to airborne asbestos over the past several decades. In their suits, the plaintiffs have named as defendants, among others, many manufacturers, distributors and installers of numerous types of equipment or products that allegedly contained asbestos. The majority of the asbestos complaints pending against the Company have been filed in New York. Almost all of the New York complaints contain a standard claim for damages of $20 million or $25 million against the approximately 90 defendants, regardless of the individual plaintiff's alleged medical condition, and without specifically identifying any Company product as the source of plaintiff's asbestos exposure. If the Company is found to be liable in any of these actions and the liability exceeds the Company's insurance coverage, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. For more information concerning this litigation, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." 18 Table of Contents Higher than expected claims under insurance policies, under which the Company retains a portion of the risk, could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. The Company retains a significant portion of the risk for property, workers' compensation, U.K. employers' liability, automobile, general and product liability losses. Reserves have been recorded that reflect the undiscounted estimated liabilities for ultimate losses including claims incurred but not reported. Inherent in these estimates are assumptions that are based on the Company's history of claims and losses, a detailed analysis of existing claims with respect to potential value, and current legal and legislative trends. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had recorded liabilities of $88.0 million and $87.2 million, respectively, related to both asserted and unasserted insurance claims. Included in the balance at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $4.3 million and $6.9 million, respectively, of recognized liabilities covered by insurance carriers. If actual claims are higher than those projected by management, an increase to the Company's insurance reserves may be required and would be recorded as a charge to income in the period the need for the change was determined. Conversely, if actual claims are lower than those projected by management, a decrease to the Company's insurance reserves may be required and would be recorded as a reduction to expense in the period the need for the change was determined. The Company periodically evaluates the creditworthiness of the insurance providers and does not expect default by them. However, given the current global financial environment, such default remains possible. The Company is subject to various environmental laws, and the success of existing or future environmental claims against it could adversely impact the Company's results of operations and cash flows. The Company's operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the protection of health, safety and the environment, including those governing discharges to air and water, handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes, the remediation of contaminated sites and the maintenance of a safe workplace. These laws impose penalties, fines and other sanctions for non-compliance and liability for response costs, property damages and personal injury resulting from past and current spills, disposals or other releases of, or exposure to, hazardous materials. The Company could incur substantial costs as a result of non-compliance with or liability for remediation or other costs or damages under these laws. The Company may be subject to more stringent environmental laws in the future, and compliance with more stringent environmental requirements may require the Company to make material expenditures or subject it to liabilities that the Company currently does not anticipate. The Company is currently involved in a number of environmental remediation investigations and cleanups and, along with other companies, has been identified as a "potentially responsible party" for certain waste disposal sites under the federal "Superfund" law. At several sites, the Company is currently conducting environmental remediation, and it is probable that the Company will agree to make payments toward funding certain other of these remediation activities. It also is possible that some of these matters will be decided unfavorably to the Company and that other sites requiring remediation will be identified. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties, and financial exposure is dependent upon such factors as the continuing evolution of environmental laws and regulatory requirements; the availability and application of technology; the allocation of cost among potentially responsible parties; the years of remedial activity required; and the remediation methods selected. The Company has evaluated its potential liability and the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 include an accrual of $4.2 million and $3.1 million, respectively, for future expenditures related to environmental matters. The amounts charged against pre-tax earnings related to environmental matters totaled $2.6 million, $1.5 million and $1.5 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The liability for future remediation costs is evaluated on a quarterly basis. Actual costs to be incurred at identified sites in future periods may be greater than the estimates, given inherent uncertainties in evaluating environmental exposures. 19 Table of Contents Increases in energy prices could increase the Company's operating costs and reduce its profitability. Worldwide political and economic conditions, an imbalance in the supply and demand for oil, extreme weather conditions and armed hostilities in oil-producing regions, among other factors, may result in an increase in the volatility of energy costs, both on a macro basis and for the Company specifically. To the extent that increased energy costs cannot be passed on to customers in the future, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company may be adversely affected. To the extent that reduced energy costs are not passed on to customers in the future, this may have a favorable impact on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company. The Company has established a Risk Management Committee to manage the risk of increased energy prices that affect the Company's operations. Increases or decreases in purchase prices (or selling prices) or availability of steel or other materials and commodities may affect the Company's profitability. The profitability of the Company's manufactured products is affected by changing purchase prices of steel and other materials and commodities. If raw material costs associated with the Company's manufactured products increase and the costs cannot be transferred to the Company's customers, operating income would be adversely affected. Additionally, decreased availability of steel or other materials could affect the Company's ability to produce manufactured products in a timely manner. If the Company cannot obtain the necessary raw materials for its manufactured products, then revenues, operating income and cash flows will be adversely affected. Certain services performed by the Harsco Minerals businesses result in the recovery, processing and sale of specialty steel and other high-value metal by-products to its customers. The selling price of the by-products material is market-based and varies based upon the current fair value of its components. Therefore, the revenue amounts generated from the sale of such by-products material vary based upon the fair value of the commodity components being sold. The Company may not be able to manage and integrate acquisitions successfully. In the past, the Company has acquired businesses and on an ongoing basis, continues to evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities that have the potential to support and strengthen the business. The Company can give no assurances, however, that any acquisition opportunities will arise or, if they do, that they will be consummated, or that additional financing or capital, if needed, will be available on satisfactory terms. In addition, acquisitions involve inherent risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with the Company's expectations. The Company may not be able to achieve the synergies and other benefits that are expected from the integration of acquisitions as successfully or rapidly as projected, if at all. The Company's failure to effectively integrate newly acquired operations could prevent the Company from recognizing expected rates of return on an acquired business and could have a material and adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The company could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The Company's policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. The Company operates in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances; strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. The Company trains its employees concerning anti-bribery laws and issues, and also informs its partners, subcontractors, agents and others 20 Table of Contents who work with the Company or on its behalf that they must comply with anti-bribery law requirements. The Company also has procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance. The Company cannot provide assurance that its internal controls and procedures will always protect the Company from the reckless or criminal acts committed by its employees or agents. If the Company is found to be liable for anti-bribery law violations (either due to its own acts or out of inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), the Company could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions which could have a material and adverse effect on results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare the Company's financial statements. In preparing the financial statements, the Company is required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States to make estimates and assumptions at the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and certain disclosures. Areas requiring significant estimates by management include: •Defined benefit pension benefits •Notes and accounts receivable •Goodwill impairment •Long-lived asset impairment •Inventory valuation and obsolescence •Insurance reserves •Legal and other contingencies •Income taxes Actual business and financial results could differ from estimates of such results, which could have a material and adverse effect on results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The Company maintains a workforce based upon current and anticipated workload. If the Company does not receive future contract awards or if these awards are delayed, significant cost may result. The Company's estimates of future performance depend on, among other matters, whether and when the Company will receive certain new contract awards, including the extent to which the Company utilizes its workforce. The rate at which the Company utilizes its workforce is impacted by a variety of factors including the ability to manage attrition; to forecast the need for services which allows it to maintain an appropriately sized workforce; the ability to transition employees from completed projects to new projects or between segments; and the need to devote resources to non-revenue generating activities such as training or business development. While the Company's estimates are based upon its good faith judgment, these estimates can be unreliable and may frequently change based on newly available information. In the case of large-scale domestic and international projects where timing is often uncertain, it is particularly difficult to predict whether and when the Company will receive a contract award. The uncertainty of contact award timing can present difficulties in matching the Company's workforce size with contract needs. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, the Company could incur cost resulting from reductions in staff or redundancy of facilities or equipment that could have a material and adverse effect on results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents The success of the Company's joint ventures depends on the satisfactory performance by joint venture partners of their joint venture obligations. The Company enters into various joint ventures as part of its strategic growth initiatives as well as to comply with local laws. Differences in opinions or views between joint venture partners can result in delayed decision-making or failure to agree on material issues which could adversely affect the business and operations of the venture. From time to time in order to establish or preserve a relationship, or to better ensure venture success, the Company may accept risks or responsibilities for the joint venture which are not necessarily proportionate with the reward it expects to receive. The success of these and other joint ventures also depends, in large part, on the satisfactory performance by the Company's joint venture partners of their joint venture obligations, including their obligation to commit working capital, equity or credit support as required by the joint venture and to support their indemnification and other contractual obligations. If the Company's joint venture partners fail to satisfactorily perform their joint venture obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, the joint venture may be unable to adequately perform or deliver its contracted services. Under these circumstances, the Company may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. These additional obligations could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, increased liabilities or significant losses for the Company with respect to the joint venture. In addition, a failure by a joint venture partner to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations could negatively impact its business and, in the case of government contracts, could result in fines, penalties, suspension or even debarment. Unexpected joint venture developments could have a material and adverse effect on results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 22 Table of Contents 