ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report, including the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All such statements are qualified by this cautionary note, which is provided pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (1933 Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (1934 Act). Forward-looking statements may also be included in our other public filings, press releases, our website and oral and written presentations by management. Statements other than historical facts are forward-looking and may be identified by words such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “could,” “intends,” or words of similar meaning. Examples include statements regarding (1) our strategies and initiatives, (2) adjustments to our cost structure and other actions designed to respond to market conditions and improve our performance, and the anticipated effectiveness and expenses associated with these actions, (3) our financial outlook for revenues, earnings per share, operating income, expense related to equity-based compensation, capital resources and other financial items, (4) expectations for our businesses and for the industries in which we operate, including with regard to the negative performance trends in our Shoppers business and the adverse impact of the ongoing economic downturn in the United States and other economies on the marketing expenditures and activities of our Direct Marketing clients and prospects, (5) competitive factors, (6) acquisition and development plans, (7) our stock repurchase program, (8) expectations regarding legal proceedings and other contingent liabilities, and (9) other statements regarding future events, conditions or outcomes. These forward-looking statements are based on current information, expectations and estimates and involve risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that are difficult to predict and that could cause actual results to vary materially from what is expressed in or indicated by the forward-looking statements. In that event, our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially adversely affected, and investors in our securities could lose part or all of their investments. Some of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors can be found in our filings with the SEC, including the factors discussed below in this Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, and any updates thereto in our Forms 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this report and those included in our other public filings, press releases, our website and oral and 12 Table of Contents written presentations by management are made only as of the respective dates thereof, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement in this report or in other documents, our website or oral statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. In addition to the information set forth elsewhere in this report, including in the MD&A section, the factors described below should be considered carefully in making any investment decisions with respect to our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones we face or may face in the future. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently anticipated or that we may currently believe are immaterial could also impair our business operations and financial performance. We face significant competition for individual projects, entire client relationships and advertising dollars in general. Our Direct Marketing business faces significant competition in all of its offerings and within each of its vertical markets. Direct marketing is a dynamic business, subject to technological advancements, high turnover of client personnel who make buying decisions, client consolidations, changing client needs and preferences, continual development of competing products and services and an evolving competitive landscape. This competition comes from numerous local, national and international direct marketing and advertising companies against whom we compete for individual projects, entire client relationships and marketing expenditures by clients and prospective clients. We also compete against print and electronic media and other forms of advertising for marketing and advertising dollars in general. In addition, our ability to attract new clients and to retain existing clients may, in some cases, be limited by clients’ policies on or perceptions of conflicts of interest. These policies can prevent us from performing similar services for competing products or companies. Our Shoppers business competes for advertising, as well as for readers, with other print and electronic media. Competition comes from local and regional newspapers, magazines, radio, broadcast, satellite and cable television, other shoppers, the internet, other communications media and other advertising printers that operate in our markets. The extent and nature of such competition are, in large part, determined by the location and demographics of the markets targeted by a particular advertiser and the number of media alternatives in those markets. Our failure to improve our current processes or to develop new products and services could result in the loss of our clients to current or future competitors. In addition, failure to gain market acceptance of new products and services could adversely affect our growth. Current and future competitors may have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do, and they may sell competing products and services at lower prices or at lower profit margins, resulting in pressures on our prices and margins. The sizes of our competitors vary across market segments. Therefore, some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources than we do in one or more of our market segments, or overall. As a result, our competitors may be in a position to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of products and services. Moreover, new competitors or alliances among our competitors may emerge and potentially reduce our market share, revenue or margins. Some of our competitors also may choose to sell products or services competitive to ours at lower prices by accepting lower margins and profitability, or may be able to sell products or services competitive to ours at lower prices given proprietary ownership of data, technical superiority or economies of scale. Price reductions or pricing pressure by our competitors could negatively impact our margins and results of operations, and could also harm our ability to obtain new customers on favorable terms. Competitive pricing pressures tend to increase in difficult economic environments, such as the current environments in the United States and other economies, due to reduced marketing expenditures of many of our clients and prospects and the resulting impact on the competitive business environment for marketing service providers such as our company. We must maintain technological competitiveness, continually improve our processes and develop and introduce new products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner. 13 Table of Contents We believe that our success depends on, among other things, maintaining technological competitiveness in our Direct Marketing and Shoppers products, processing functionality and software systems and services. Technology changes rapidly and there are continuous improvements in computer hardware, network operating systems, programming tools, programming languages, operating systems, database technology and the use of the Internet. Advances in information technology may result in changing client preferences for products and product delivery formats in our industry. We must continually improve our current processes and develop and introduce new products and services in order to match our competitors’ technological developments and other improvements in competing product and service offerings and the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients. We may be unable to successfully identify, develop and bring new and enhanced services and products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, such services and products may not be commercially successful, and services, products and technologies developed by others may render our services and products noncompetitive or obsolete. Our success depends on our ability to consistently and effectively deliver our products and services to our clients. Our success depends on our ability to effectively and consistently staff and execute client engagements within the agreed upon timeframe and budget. Depending on the needs of our clients, our Direct Marketing engagements may require customization, integration and coordination of a number of complex product and service offerings and execution across many of our facilities worldwide. Moreover, in some of our engagements, we rely on subcontractors and other third parties to provide a portion of our overall services, and we cannot guarantee that these third parties will effectively deliver their services or that we will have adequate recourse against these third parties in the event they fail to effectively deliver their services. Other contingencies and events outside of our control may also impact our ability to provide our products and services. Our failure to effectively and timely staff, coordinate and execute our client engagements may adversely impact existing client relationships, the amount or timing of payments from our clients, our reputation in the marketplace and ability to secure additional business and our resulting financial performance. In addition, our contractual arrangements with our Direct Marketing clients and other customers may not provide us with sufficient protections against claims for lost profits or other claims for damages. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our prospects depend in large part upon our ability to attract, train and retain experienced technical, client services, sales, consulting, research and development, marketing, administrative and management personnel. While the demand for personnel is dependent on employment levels, competitive factors and general economic conditions, qualified personnel historically have been in great demand. The loss or prolonged absence of the services of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or operating results. We have recently experienced, and may experience in the future, reduced demand for our products and services and increased bad debt expense because of general economic conditions, the financial conditions and marketing budgets of our clients and other factors that may impact the industry verticals that we serve. Economic downturns and turmoil severely affect the marketing services industry. Throughout this recent recession, and in other previous economic downturns, our customers have responded, and may respond in the future, to weak economic conditions by reducing their marketing budgets, which are generally discretionary in nature and easier to reduce in the short-term than other expenses. In addition, revenues from our Shoppers business are largely dependent on local advertising expenditures in the markets in which they operate. Such expenditures are substantially affected by the strength of the local economies in those markets. Direct Marketing revenues are dependent on national, regional and international economies and business conditions. A lasting economic recession or anemic recovery in the United States economy and the other markets in which we operate, such as the recent recession and recovery, could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position or operating results. Similarly, there may be industry or company-specific factors that negatively impact our clients and prospective clients or their industries and result in reduced demand for our products and services, client bankruptcies or other collection 14 Table of Contents difficulties and bankruptcy preference actions to recover certain amounts previously paid to us by our clients. We may also experience reduced demand as a result of consolidation of clients and prospective clients in the industry verticals that we serve. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Form 10-K for additional information about the adverse impact on our financial performance of the ongoing difficult economic environment in the United States and other economies. Our Shoppers business is geographically concentrated and is subject to the California and Florida economies. Our Shoppers business is concentrated geographically in California and Florida. An economic downturn in these states, such as the current downturn, or a large disaster, such as a flood, hurricane, earthquake or other disaster or condition that disables our facilities, immobilizes the USPS or causes a significant negative change in the economies of these regions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or operating results. Our business plan requires us to effectively manage our costs. If we do not achieve our cost management objectives, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our business plan and expectations for the future require that we effectively manage our cost structure, including our operating expenses and capital expenditures across our operations. To the extent that we do not effectively manage our costs, our financial results may be adversely affected in any economic climate and even more so during a prolonged recession, such as the ongoing economic downturn in the United States and other economies. Privacy, security and other direct marketing regulatory requirements may prevent or impair our ability to offer our products and services. We are subject to, or affected by, numerous laws, regulations and industry standards that regulate direct marketing activities, including those that address privacy, data security and unsolicited marketing communications. Please refer to the section above entitled “U.S. and Foreign Government Regulations” for additional information regarding some of these regulations. As a result of increasing public awareness and interest in individual privacy rights, data security and environmental and other concerns regarding unsolicited marketing communications, federal, state and foreign governmental and industry organizations continue to consider new legislative and regulatory proposals that would impose additional restrictions on direct marketing services and products. Examples include data encryption standards, data breach notification requirements, registration requirements, consumer choice and consent restrictions and increased penalties against offending parties, among others. We anticipate that additional proposals will continue to be introduced in the future, some of which may be adopted. In addition, our business may be affected by the impact of these restrictions on our clients and their marketing activities. These additional regulations could increase compliance requirements and restrict or prevent the collection, management, aggregation, transfer, use or dissemination of information or data that is currently legally available. Additional regulations may also restrict or prevent current practices regarding unsolicited marketing communications. For example, many states have considered implementing do not contact legislation that could impact our Direct Marketing and Shoppers businesses and the businesses of our clients and customers. In addition, continued public interest in individual privacy rights and data security may result in the adoption of further voluntary industry guidelines that could impact our direct marketing activities and business practices. We cannot predict the scope of any new legislation, regulations or industry guidelines or how courts may interpret existing and new laws. Additionally, enforcement priorities by governmental authorities may change and also impact our business. Compliance with regulations is costly and time-consuming, and we may encounter difficulties, delays or significant expenses in connection with our compliance, and we may be exposed to significant penalties, liabilities, reputational harm and loss of business in the event that we fail to comply. There could be a material adverse impact on our business due to the enactment or enforcement of legislation or industry regulations, the issuance of judicial or governmental interpretations, enforcement 15 Table of Contents priorities of governmental agencies or a change in customs arising from public concern over consumer privacy and data security issues. We could fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and may face claims for intellectual property infringement. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on the protection of our technology, products, services and brands through intellectual property right protections, including patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, trademarks and domain name registrations and enforcement procedures. The extent to which such rights can be protected and enforced varies in different jurisdictions. There is also a risk of litigation relating to our use or future use of intellectual property rights of third parties. Third-party infringement claims and any related litigation against us could subject us to liability for damages, restrict us from using and providing our technologies, products or services or operating our business generally, or require changes to be made to our technologies, products and services. Please refer to the section above entitled “Intellectual Property Rights” for additional information regarding our intellectual property and associated risks. Consumer perceptions regarding the privacy and security of their data may prevent or impair our ability to offer our products and services. Pursuant to various federal, state, foreign and industry regulations, consumers have control as to how certain data regarding them is collected, used and shared for marketing purposes. If, due to privacy or security concerns, consumers exercise their ability to prevent such data collection, use or sharing, this may impair our ability to provide direct marketing to those consumers and limit our clients’ requirements for our services. Additionally, privacy and security concerns may limit consumers’ willingness to voluntarily provide data to our customers or marketing companies. Some of our services depend on voluntarily provided data and may be impaired without such data. Our reputation and business results may be adversely impacted if we, or subcontractors upon whom we rely, do not effectively protect sensitive personal information of our clients and our clients’ customers. Current privacy and data security laws and industry standards impact the manner in which we capture, handle, analyze and disseminate customer and prospect data as part of our client engagements. In many instances, client contracts also mandate privacy and security practices. If we fail to effectively protect and control sensitive personal information (such as personal health information, social security numbers or credit card numbers) of our clients and their customers or prospects in accordance with these requirements, we may incur significant expenses, suffer reputational harm and loss of business, and, in certain cases, be subjected to regulatory or governmental sanctions or litigation. These risks may be increased due to our reliance on subcontractors and other third parties in providing a portion of our overall services in certain engagements. We cannot guarantee that these third parties will effectively protect and handle sensitive personal information or other confidential information, or that we will have adequate recourse against these third parties in that event. We may not be able to adequately protect our information systems. Our ability to protect our information systems against damage from a data loss, security breach, computer virus, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other disaster is critical to our future success. Some of these systems may be outsourced to third-party providers from time to time. Any damage to our information systems that causes interruptions in our operations or a loss of data could affect our ability to meet our clients’ requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or operating results. While we take precautions to protect our information systems, such measures may not be effective, and existing measures may become inadequate because of changes in future conditions. Breaches of security, or the perception that e-commerce is not secure, could harm our business and reputation. Business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce, including that which is Internet-based, requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Some of our products and services are accessed through the Internet. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products 16 Table of Contents and services, or well-publicized security breaches that may affect us or our industry, such as database intrusion, could be detrimental to our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the information systems that access our products, services and proprietary database information. Data suppliers could withdraw data that we rely on for our products and services. We purchase or license much of the data we use. There could be a material adverse impact on our Direct Marketing business if owners of the data we use were to withdraw or cease to allow access to the data or materially restrict the authorized uses of their data. Data providers could withdraw their data if there is a competitive reason to do so, if there is pressure from the consumer community or if additional legislation is passed restricting the use of the data. We also rely upon data from other external sources to maintain our proprietary and non-proprietary databases, including data received from customers and various government and public record sources. If a substantial number of data providers or other key data sources were to withdraw or restrict their data, if we were to lose access to data due to government regulation, or if the collection of data becomes uneconomical, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially adversely affected, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. We must successfully evaluate acquisition targets and integrate acquisitions. We frequently evaluate acquisition opportunities to expand our product and service offerings and geographic locations, including potential international acquisitions. Acquisition activities, even if not consummated, require substantial amounts of management time and can distract from normal operations. In addition, we may be unable to achieve the profitability goals, synergies and other objectives initially sought in acquisitions, and any acquired assets, data or businesses may not be successfully integrated into our operations. Acquisitions may result in the impairment of relationships with employees and customers. Moreover, although we review and analyze assets or companies we acquire, such reviews are subject to uncertainties and may not reveal all potential risks, and we may incur unanticipated liabilities and expenses as a result of our acquisition activities. The failure to identify appropriate candidates, to negotiate favorable terms, or to successfully integrate future acquisitions into existing operations could result in not achieving planned revenue growth and could negatively impact our net income and earnings per share. We are vulnerable to increases in paper prices. Newsprint prices have fluctuated in recent years. We maintain, on average, less than 45 days of paper inventory and do not purchase our paper pursuant to long-term paper contracts. Because we have a limited ability to protect ourselves from fluctuations in the price of paper or to pass increased costs along to our clients, these fluctuations could materially affect the results of our operations. We are vulnerable to increases in postal rates and disruptions in postal services. Our Shoppers and Direct Marketing services depend on the USPS to deliver products. Our shoppers are delivered by Standard Mail, and postage is the second largest expense, behind labor, in our Shoppers business. Standard postage rates have increased in recent years, most recently in May 2009, and rates remain subject to further increases. For example, in July 2010, the U.S. Postal Service proposed an exigent price increase to go into effect in January 2011 by an average of 5.6%. (The Postal Regulatory Commission denied the proposal in its entirety.) Under the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act of 2006, the USPS can file for a rate increase in February of each year, and any increase will take effect the following April. Any such rate increase is capped at the average of the consumer price index from the previous December. At this point we believe the next postal rate increase will likely occur in April 2011 and will be less than 1%. Overall Shoppers postage costs will be affected by any future increases in postage rates. Postage rates also influence the demand for our Direct Marketing services even though the cost of mailings is typically borne by our clients and is not directly reflected in our revenues or expenses. Accordingly, future postal increases or disruptions in the operations of the USPS may have an adverse impact on us. 17 Table of Contents Our financial results could be negatively impacted by impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. As of December 31, 2010, the net book value of our goodwill and other intangibles, represented approximately $581.4 million out of our total assets of $926.9 million. We test goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment as of November 30 of each year and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A downward revision in the fair value of either of our reporting units or any of the other intangible assets could result in impairments and non-cash charges. Any such impairment charges could have a significant negative effect on our reported net income. Scheduled debt maturities and liquidity All of our $193.0 million outstanding debt is scheduled to mature over the next fifteen months. As of December 31, 2010 we had $86.0 million in cash and had $58.2 million of unused borrowing capacity under our 2010 Revolving Credit Facility. Depending on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, our overall liquidity and ability to make payments on our indebtedness may be adversely impacted, and we may be required to seek one or more alternatives, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling material assets or operations, or seeking to raise debt or equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these actions could be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, our existing debt agreements contain restrictive covenants that may prohibit us from adopting one or more of these alternatives. Our indebtedness may adversely impact our ability to react to changes in our business or changes in general economic conditions. The amount of our indebtedness and the terms under which we have borrowed money under our credit facilities or other agreements could have important consequences for our business. Our debt covenants require that we maintain certain financial measures and ratios. As a result of these covenants and ratios, we may be limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. A failure to comply with these restrictions or to maintain the financial measures and ratios contained in the debt agreements could lead to an event of default that could result in an acceleration of outstanding indebtedness. In addition, the amount and terms of our indebtedness could: • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate, including limiting our ability to invest in our strategic initiatives, and, consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage; • reduce the availability of our cash flows that would otherwise be available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; and • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates, as discussed below under “Interest rate increases could affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.” We may incur additional indebtedness in the future and, if new debt is added to our current debt levels, the above risks could be increased. Interest rate increases could affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Interest rate movements in Europe and the United States can affect the amount of interest we pay related to our debt and the amount we earn on cash equivalents. Our primary interest rate exposure is to interest rate fluctuations in Europe, specifically Eurodollar rates, due to their impact on interest related to our credit facilities. As of December 31, 2010, we had $193.0 million of debt outstanding, all of which was at variable interest rates. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. We also have exposure to interest rate fluctuations in the United States, specifically money market, commercial paper and overnight time deposit rates, as these affect our earnings on excess cash. Even with the offsetting increase in earnings on excess cash in the event of an 18 Table of Contents interest rate increase, we cannot be assured that future interest rate increases will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position or operating results. Our international operations subject us to risks associated with operations outside the U.S. Harte-Hanks Direct Marketing conducts business outside of the United States. During 2010, approximately 15.4% of Harte-Hanks Direct Marketing’s revenues and 10.7% of Harte-Hanks total revenues were derived from businesses outside the United States, primarily Europe, Asia and South America. We may expand our international operations in the future as part of our growth strategy. Accordingly, our future operating results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • social, economic and political instability; • changes in U.S. and foreign governmental legal requirements or policies resulting in burdensome government controls, tariffs, restrictions, embargoes or export license requirements; • inflation; • the potential for nationalization of enterprises; • less favorable labor laws that may increase employment costs and decrease work force flexibility; • potentially adverse tax treatment; • less favorable foreign intellectual property laws that would make it more difficult to protect our intellectual properties from appropriation by competitors; • more onerous or differing data privacy and security requirements or other marketing regulations; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries; and • the costs and difficulties of managing international operations. In addition, exchange rate movements may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from foreign investments. We have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The various risks that are inherent in doing business in the United States are also generally applicable to doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. We must maintain effective internal controls. In designing and evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting, we recognize that any internal control or procedure, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives and that no system of internal controls can be designed to provide absolute assurance of effectiveness. If we fail to maintain a system of effective internal controls, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or operating results. Additionally, adverse publicity related to a failure in our internal controls over financial reporting could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. Fluctuation in our revenue and operating results and other factors may impact the volatility of our stock price. The price at which our common stock has traded in recent years has fluctuated greatly and has declined significantly over that period of time. The price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: • the impact and duration of the ongoing economic downturn, overall strength of the United States and other economies and general market volatility; • variations in our operating results from period to period and variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; • unanticipated developments with client engagements or client demand, such as variations in the size, budget, or progress toward the completion of engagements, variability in the market demand for our services, client consolidations and the unanticipated termination of several major client engagements; • announcements of developments affecting our businesses; • competition and the operating results of our competitors; and 19 Table of Contents • other factors discussed elsewhere in this Item 1A, “Risk Factors”. As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. War or terrorism could affect our business. War and/or terrorism or the threat of war and/or terrorism involving the United States could have a significant impact on our business, financial position or operating results. War or the threat of war could substantially affect the levels of advertising expenditures by clients in each of our businesses. In addition, each of our businesses could be affected by operation disruptions and a shortage of supplies and labor related to such a war or threat of war. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 