Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information set forth in this Form 10-K in evaluating our Company and our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Competing companies may reduce the demand for our products and services, as we are subject to the risks of strong competition. We compete in the New York Metropolitan area with mass merchants, mail order houses, discount stores and numerous other consumer electronics specialty stores. The retail electronics industry is dominated by large retailers with massive, "big box" retail facilities which aggressively discount merchandise. These retailers operate on narrow profit margins and high volume, driven by aggressive advertising emphasizing low prices. Nationwide industry leaders are Circuit City and Best Buy. The New York region is dominated by Circuit City, Best Buy, and local chains including P.C. Richard & Son, 6th Avenue Electronics and Electronics Expo. Many of the competitors sell a broader range of electronic products, including computers, camcorders, digital cameras and office equipment, and many have substantially larger sales and greater financial and other resources than we have. While we compete by positioning ourselves as a retailer of high quality limited distribution audio and video products and, by offering upscale sophisticated custom installations, which are not offered by all of the mass merchants, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute our marketing strategy. In addition, a number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on Harvey's results of operations and financial condition, including: o Increased operational efficiencies of competitors; o Competitive pricing strategies; o Expansion into Harvey's markets by existing competitors; o Entry by new competitors into markets in which Harvey is currently operating; or o Adoption by existing competitors of innovative store formats or retail sales methods that are similar to the formats or retail sale method implemented by Harvey. We have significant working capital requirements. We expect that cash flow from operations, together with the proceeds of our recent private placement and funds available under our revolving line of credit facility, will meet our working capital requirements through the fiscal year ending October 29, 2007. However, additional financing may be required in the event we want to open additional retail stores in the future. Any future financings that involve the sale of our equity securities may result in dilution to the then current stockholders. Shortages of product or delayed delivery of product from suppliers may delay or reduce our sales, which may affect profitability. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of certain product could result in delayed sales or lost orders, and may also delay the completion of service orders for which our customers contract. In the last twelve months, we have experienced such delays in receipt of product from our suppliers on various occasions which has caused us to lose sales. We place orders for products and plan inventory in advance based on our forecast of consumer demand, which is highly volatile and difficult to predict. We may experience a shortage of LCD panels, for example, which may result in our inability to meet demand for our LCD televisions, or a surplus of LCD panels that may result in the recording of losses should LCD panel prices decline. Market fluctuations may cause a shortage of products and may affect the cost of goods sold. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by supply or inventory shortages. We are entirely dependent on leased locations for the operation of our retail stores. All of our retail stores are located in leased premises. Several of the leases will expire within five years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our current leases, locate suitable locations for new stores, arrange acceptable leases for new locations, or open new retail stores in a timely manner. Our inability to properly address those concerns may prevent us from achieving our expansion plans which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our secured loans and existence of liens on our assets make such assets unavailable to secure additional debt financing. Substantially all of our assets have been pledged to a financial institution to secure certain indebtedness under a revolving line of credit facility and term loan. In the event that we default on our obligations, including the payment of principal and interest, our indebtedness could be accelerated and, in certain cases, our assets could be subject to foreclosure. Moreover, to the extent that our assets continue to be pledged to secure outstanding indebtedness, such assets will remain unavailable to secure additional debt financing. Such unavailability may adversely affect our ability to borrow in the future. Our business depends on economic conditions and consumer preferences. Our business is subject to economic cycles and changing consumer preferences. Purchases of high quality audio, video and home theatre products may decline in periods of economic uncertainty. We are particularly vulnerable since our products are upscale and expensive. As such, any significant decline in general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The development of technology may erode our market position and cause other adverse effects. The retail consumer electronics market is dominated by mass merchants. Historically, mass merchants have emphasized volume by selling lower performing products at lower prices. In contrast, specialty boutiques, including the Company, have emphasized selling higher quality products at higher prices. However, development of technologies, which has been extremely rapid in the electronics industry, has substantially reduced the difference between more expensive and less expensive products. Future technological advances may further reduce this difference, possibly to the point at which performance and features will be indistinguishable. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to rely on this difference to implement our operating strategy. In addition, the periodic introduction and availability of new products and technologies at price levels that generate wide consumer interest stimulate the demand for audio, video and home theatre consumer electronics products. Also, many products that incorporate the newest technologies, such as HDTV, are subject to significant technological and pricing limitations and to the actions and cooperation of third parties such as television broadcasters. It is possible that these products or other new products will never achieve widespread consumer acceptance. Furthermore, the introduction of new products or technologies may depress sales of existing products and technologies. Significant deviations from the projected demand for products Harvey sells would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, either from lost sales or lower margins due to the need to mark down excess inventory. Any sustained failure by Harvey to identify and respond to changes in consumer demand and preferences would have a material adverse effect on Harvey's results of operations and financial condition. We depend on a limited number of key personnel. The success of the Company is largely dependent upon the abilities and efforts of D. Andrew Stackpole, Chairman, Martin W. McClanan, Interim Chief Executive Officer, Joseph J. Calabrese, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Michael Beck, Vice President of Operations, Roland Hiemer, Vice President of Merchandising and Patricia Kross, Controller of the Company. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers or the services of other key management personnel could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. The Company does not maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of its executive officers. We are subject to the risk of possible delisting of our Common Stock. Our Common Stock trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to meet any of the criteria trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the Common Stock could be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market, which delisting could materially adversely affect the trading market for the Common Stock. There can be no assurance that we will meet all the criteria and the Common Stock will not be delisted. Existing NASDAQ Capital Market maintenance criteria require, among other things, that an issuer (such as the Company) have stockholders' equity of $2.5 million (or alternatively net income of $500,000 in the latest fiscal year or in two of the most recent three fiscal years, or a market capitalization of $50 million) and that the listed security has a minimum bid price of $1.00. We recently regained compliance with Nasdaq Capital Market requirements for continued listing but there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to delisting in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 