Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum have significant asbestos liability and funding exposure, and the Company's and Congoleum's strategies for resolving this exposure may not be successful. Congoleum’s plan of reorganization for Congoleum is expected to result in elimination of the interests of Congoleum's equity holders, including the Company. As more fully set forth in Notes 1, 8 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company and Congoleum have significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos personal injury claims. On December 31, 2003, Congoleum filed a voluntary petition with the Bankruptcy Court seeking relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code as a means to resolve claims asserted against it related to the use of asbestos in its products decades ago. A joint plan of reorganization for Congoleum proposed by the FCR, the ACC, the Bondholders’ Committee and Congoleum is pending in the Bankruptcy Court, which plan is referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as the "Joint Plan." Under the terms of the Joint Plan, ABI's ownership interest in Congoleum would be eliminated. ABI expects that its ownership interest in Congoleum would be eliminated under any alternate plan or outcome in Congoleum’s Chapter 11 case. The Joint Plan and any other plan of reorganization for Congoleum will be subject to numerous conditions, approvals and other requirements, including the receipt of necessary creditor, claimant and court approvals. Certain insurers are contesting the Joint Plan in the bankruptcy court and Congoleum is involved in ongoing litigation against its insurers in a state court coverage action. If the insurers are successful in contesting the Joint Plan or in denying coverage under the insurance policies, the Joint Plan may not receive necessary court approval or may not become effective. Further, even if the insurers are not successful in contesting the Joint Plan or in denying coverage under the insurance policies, Congoleum may be required to incur significant time and expense litigating against the insurers, which could further delay any confirmation or effectiveness of the Joint Plan. In order to obtain confirmation of the Joint Plan, Congoleum will need sufficient funds to pay for the continued litigation with these insurers as well the bankruptcy proceedings generally. Under the terms of the Joint Plan, ABI’s rights and claims to indemnification from Congoleum under the existing joint venture agreement between ABI and Congoleum that relate to ABI's contribution to Congoleum in 1993 of ABI's tile division, and the joint venture agreement itself, will be deemed rejected and disallowed upon the effective date of the Joint Plan, and therefore eliminated. The Joint Plan's rejection and disallowance of the joint venture agreement and ABI’s claims thereunder include any unfunded indemnification claims ABI may have had prepetition and during the pendency of Congoleum's Chapter 11 case as well as any such claims ABI might otherwise have been entitled to assert after the Joint Plan becomes effective. 9 In addition, in view of ABI’s relationships with Congoleum, ABI will be affected by Congoleum's negotiations regarding, and its pursuit of, the Joint Plan or any alternative plan of reorganization, and there can be no assurance as to what that impact, positive or negative, might be. In any event, the failure of Congoleum to obtain confirmation and consummation of a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization would have a material adverse effect on Congoleum's business, results of operations or financial condition and could have a material adverse effect on ABI’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company has its own direct asbestos liability as well. The Company's strategy remains to vigorously defend against and strategically settle its asbestos claims on a case-by-case basis. To date, the Company's insurers have funded substantially all of the Company's liabilities and expenses related to its asbestos liability under the Company's applicable insurance policies. The Company expects its insurance carriers will continue to defend and indemnify it for a substantial amount of its asbestos liabilities for the foreseeable future. If, however, the Company were not able to receive such coverage from its insurers for the Company's asbestos liabilities and expenses, that would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position. In addition, certain of the excess liability insurance policies that the Company purchased were underwritten by companies that are now insolvent, which may limit the amount of funds available to pay for any future claims covered by these policies. It is also possible that asbestos claims may be asserted against the Company alleging exposure allocable solely to years in which the Company’s insurance policies excluded coverage for asbestos. As a result of Congoleum's significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos claims, there can be no assurance that if Congoleum were to incur any unforecasted or unexpected liability or disruption to its business or operations it would be able to withstand that liability or disruption and continue as an operating company. Any significant increase of the Company's asbestos liability and funding exposure would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operations and financial condition and possibly its ability to continue as a going concern. In the past, federal legislation has been proposed which would establish a national trust to provide compensation to victims of asbestos-related injuries and channel all current and future asbestos-related personal injury claims to that trust. In light of the numerous uncertainties surrounding this and other possible asbestos legislation in the United States, ABI does not know what effects any such legislation, if adopted, may have upon its or Congoleum's businesses, results of operations or financial conditions, or upon any plan of reorganization for Congoleum. For further information regarding the Company's and Congoleum's asbestos liability, insurance coverage and strategies to resolve that asbestos liability, please see Notes 1, 8 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10 Elimination of the Company’s interests in Congoleum could have a material adverse impact on the business relationships between ABI and Congoleum, and ABI’s business, operations and financial condition. Under the Joint Plan, ABI's ownership interest in Congoleum would be eliminated. Pursuant to the terms of the Joint Plan, the plan trust established upon effectiveness of the Joint Plan will own 50.1% of reorganized Congoleum's outstanding common stock and Congoleum’s bondholders will own the remaining 49.9% of reorganized Congoleum's outstanding common stock, with the plan trust’s share of reorganized Congoleum’s outstanding common stock being subject to a put/call agreement that ABI expects will result in the plan trust’s divestiture of its 50.1% share of reorganized Congoleum’s outstanding common stock following the effective date of the Joint Plan. There can be no assurances how this and any other change in ownership and control may affect reorganized Congoleum’s business, operations and financial condition, or its future relationships with ABI. ABI provides management services to Congoleum, sells and purchases products to and from Congoleum, and receives royalties from Congoleum. Agreements for these current intercompany arrangements expire on the earlier of the effective date of the Joint Plan or September 30, 2008. It is not known whether ABI, Congoleum and the other parties in interest would agree to extend the term of these arrangements if the Joint Plan has not become effective by September 30, 2008, and if so, for how long any extension would last or what the terms of any such extension and related intercompany arrangements would be. The terms of the Joint Plan provide for certain intercompany arrangements continuing for a two year period ending on the second anniversary of the effective date of the Joint Plan pursuant to a new agreement to be entered into by ABI and reorganized Congoleum on the effective date of the Joint Plan. The Joint Plan provides that the new agreement will be in form and substance mutually agreeable to the FCR, the Bondholders' Committee, the ACC and ABI. Pursuant to that new agreement, ABI's current chief executive officer would serve as a director and the chief executive officer of reorganized Congoleum and ABI would have to make available to reorganized Congoleum substantially all of his time during normal working hours on annual basis, ABI would have to make available to reorganized Congoleum approximately 25% of the time of ABI's current president and chief operating officer during normal working hours and on an annual basis, and ABI's current chief financial officer would serve as the chief financial officer of reorganized Congoleum and ABI would have to make available to reorganized Congoleum approximately 50% of his time during normal working hours and on an annual basis. Expiration or termination of such intercompany arrangements, failure to reach definitive agreement on final terms of future arrangements between ABI and reorganized Congoleum, or failure to consummate such arrangements in connection with the effectiveness of a plan of reorganization for Congoleum could have a material adverse impact on the business relationships between ABI and Congoleum, and ABI’s business, operations and financial condition. 11 The Company has had to amend its debt agreements in the past in order to avoid being in default of those agreements and may have to do so again in the future, and the Company's ability to obtain additional financing may be limited. In the past, the Company has had to amend its debt agreements in order to avoid being in default of those agreements as a result of failing to satisfy certain financial covenants contained in those agreements. Most recently, on March 12, 2008, American Biltrite Inc. and its subsidiaries, K&M and AB Canada, entered into an amendment, effective as of December 31, 2007, to the credit agreement with Bank of America, National Association and Bank of America, National Association acting through its Canada branch, each in their respective capacities as lenders and administrative agents under that credit agreement. That credit agreement, as amended and restated, governs ABI's primary source of borrowings. The March 12, 2008 amendment removed the financial covenant that required the Company not to have any consecutive quarterly net losses from continuing operations (reporting Congoleum on the equity method of accounting). In addition, for purposes of determining the Company's compliance with the financial covenant requiring its Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to exceed 100% of the Company's Consolidated Fixed Charges (in each case, as determined under the credit agreement), the amendment permits the Company to add certain amounts to its Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to the extent those amounts are deducted in determining the Company's Consolidated Net Income (as determined under the credit agreement). On May 14, 2007, the same parties entered into an amendment, effective as of March 31, 2007, to the Credit Agreement to revise a financial covenant to provide that for each of the two consecutive fiscal quarters of the Company ending December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007, the Company may not have a quarterly net loss from continuing operations in excess of $400 thousand. On September 25, 2006, the Company entered into an amendment and restatement to the credit agreement it has with Bank of America, National Association and Bank of America, National Association acting through its Canada branch. In connection with that amendment and restatement, certain financial covenants were amended under the credit agreement to enable the Company to comply with those covenants. Although the Company does not anticipate that it will need to further amend the credit agreement to avoid being in default at some future date, there can be no assurances in that regard. If the Company were to violate one of those covenants and not amend the agreement to address or obtain a waiver of the violation, it could breach the agreement, resulting in a default of the agreement. If such a default were to occur, the lenders could require the Company to repay all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement. If the Company were unable to repay those amounts due, the lenders could have its rights over the collateral (most of the Company’s and its domestic subsidiaries’ (excluding Congoleum) assets) exercised, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, under the terms of the credit agreement, the Company's ability to obtain additional debt financing is limited. Moreover, since the Company and most of its domestic subsidiaries have already granted security interests in most of their assets, the Company's ability to obtain any additional debt financing may be limited. 12 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum may incur substantial liability for environmental claims and compliance matters. Due to the nature of the Company's and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum's businesses and certain of the substances which are or have been used, produced or discharged by them, the Company's and Congoleum's operations and facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign legal and regulatory provisions relating to the environment, including those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances at Company and Congoleum facilities and off-site disposal locations. The Company and Congoleum have historically expended substantial amounts for compliance with existing environmental laws or regulations, including environmental remediation costs at both third-party sites and Company and Congoleum-owned sites. The Company and Congoleum will continue to be required to expend amounts in the future because of the nature of their prior activities at their facilities, in order to comply with existing environmental laws, and those amounts may be substantial. Although the Company and Congoleum believe that those amounts should not have a material adverse effect on their respective financial positions, there is no certainty that these amounts will not have a material adverse effect on their respective financial positions because, as a result of environmental requirements becoming increasingly strict, neither the Company nor Congoleum is able to determine the ultimate cost of compliance with environmental laws and enforcement policies. Moreover, in addition to potentially having to pay substantial amounts for compliance, future environmental laws or regulations may require or cause the Company or Congoleum to modify or curtail their operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum, may incur substantial liability for other product and general liability claims. In the ordinary course of their businesses, the Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum become involved in lawsuits, administrative proceedings, product liability claims and other matters. In some of these proceedings, plaintiffs may seek to recover large and sometimes unspecified amounts and the matters may remain unresolved for several years. These matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition if the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, is unable to successfully defend against or settle these matters, and its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against it or settlements relating to these matters, or the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, is unable to collect insurance proceeds relating to these matters. 13 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are dependent upon a continuous supply of raw materials from third party suppliers and would be harmed if there were a significant, prolonged disruption in supply or increase in its raw material costs. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum generally design and engineer their own products. Most of the raw materials required by the Company for its manufacturing operations are available from multiple sources; however, the Company does purchase some of its raw materials from a single source or supplier. Any significant delay in or disruption of the supply of raw materials could substantially increase the Company's cost of materials, require product reformulation or require qualification of new suppliers, any one or more of which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company's majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum, does not have readily available alternative sources of supply for specific designs of transfer print paper, which are produced utilizing print cylinders engraved to Congoleum's specifications. Although Congoleum does not anticipate any loss of this source of supply, replacement could take a considerable period of time and interrupt production of certain products, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and Congoleum have occasionally experienced significant price increases for some of its raw materials. Although the Company has been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials, there can be no assurances that it may not experience difficulty in the future, particularly if global supply conditions deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on profit margins. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum operate in highly competitive markets and some of their competitors have greater resources, and in order to be successful, the Company and Congoleum must keep pace with and anticipate changing customer preferences. The market for the Company's and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum's products and services is highly competitive. Some of their respective competitors have greater financial and other resources and access to capital. Furthermore, one of Congoleum’s major competitors has successfully confirmed a plan of reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Having shed much of its pre-filing asbestos and other liabilities, that competitor may have a competitive cost advantage over Congoleum. In addition, in order to maintain their competitive positions, the Company and Congoleum may need to make substantial investments in their businesses, including, as applicable, product development, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for their products and in the loss of market share for their products. Moreover, due to the competitive nature of their industries, they may be commercially restricted from raising or even maintaining the sales prices of their products, which could result in the incurrence of significant operating losses if their expenses were to increase or otherwise represent an increased percentage of sales. 14 The markets in which the Company and Congoleum compete are characterized by frequent new product introductions and changing customer preferences. There can be no assurance that the Company's and Congoleum's existing products and services will be properly positioned in the market or that the Company and Congoleum will be able to introduce new or enhanced products or services into their respective markets on a timely basis, or at all, or that those new or enhanced products or services will receive customer acceptance. The Company's and Congoleum's failure to introduce new or enhanced products or services on a timely basis, keep pace with industry or market changes or effectively manage the transitions to new products, technologies or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are subject to general economic conditions and conditions specific to their respective industries. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are subject to the effects of general economic conditions. A sustained general economic slowdown could have serious negative consequences for the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, their businesses are affected by the economic factors that affect their respective industries. The slowdown in the housing industry has resulted in reduced demand for the Company’s and Congoleum’s products. These conditions could be exacerbated by contraction of the sub-prime mortgage industry. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum could realize shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from unexpected disruptions of operations at any of the Company's or Congoleum's facilities. The Company's and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum's businesses depend upon their ability to timely manufacture and deliver products that meet the needs of their customers and the end users of their products. If the Company or Congoleum were to realize an unexpected, significant and prolonged disruption of its operations at any of its facilities, including disruptions in its manufacturing operations, it could result in shipment delays of its products, depletion of its inventory as a result of reduced production and increased production costs as a result of taking actions in an attempt to cure the disruption or carry on its business while the disruption remains. Any resulting delay, depletion or increased production cost could result in increased costs, lower revenues and damaged customer and product end user relations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum offer limited warranties on their products which could result in the Company or Congoleum incurring significant costs as a result of warranty claims. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum offer a limited warranty on many of their products against manufacturing defects. In addition, as a part of its efforts to differentiate mid- and high-end products through color, design and other attributes, Congoleum offers enhanced warranties with respect to wear, moisture discoloration and other performance characteristics which generally increase with the price of such products. If the Company or Congoleum were to incur a significant number of warranty claims, the resulting warranty costs could be substantial. 15 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum rely on a small number of customers and distributors for a significant portion of their sales or to sell their products. The Company's Tape Division principally sells its products through distributors. Sales to five unaffiliated customers accounted for approximately 20% of the Company's Tape Division's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 22% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. The loss of the largest unaffiliated customer and/or two or more of the other four unaffiliated customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company's majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum principally sells its products through distributors. Although Congoleum has more than one distributor in some of its distribution territories and actively manages its credit exposure to its distributors, the loss of a major distributor could have a materially adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations, or financial condition. Congoleum derives a significant percentage of its sales from two of its distributors. These two distributors accounted for approximately 66% and 67% of Congoleum's net sales for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company's subsidiary K&M sells its products through its own direct sales force and, indirectly, through a wholly owned subsidiary and through third-party sales representatives. Four of K&M's customers accounted for approximately 58% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 60% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. The loss of the largest of these customers would have a material adverse effect on K&M’s business, results of operations and financial condition and would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum depend on key executives to run their businesses, and the loss of any of these executives would likely harm the Company's business. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum depend on key executives to run their businesses. In particular, three of the persons that serve as key executives at the Company also serve as key executives at Congoleum. The Company's future success will depend largely upon the continued service of these key executives, all of whom have no employment contract with the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, and may terminate their employment at any time without notice. Although certain key executives of the Company and Congoleum are, directly or indirectly, large shareholders of the Company or Congoleum, and thus are less likely to terminate their employment, the loss of any key executive, or the failure by the key executive to perform in his current position, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 16 ITEM 