Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum have significant asbestos liability and funding exposure, and the Company’s and Congoleum’s strategies for resolving this exposure may not be successful. Any plan of reorganization for Congoleum is expected to result in elimination of the interests of Congoleum’s equity holders, including the Company. As more fully set forth in Notes 1, 8 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company and Congoleum have significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos personal injury claims. On December 31, 2003, Congoleum filed a voluntary petition with the Bankruptcy Court seeking relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code as a means to resolve claims asserted against it related to the use of asbestos in its products decades ago. On August 17, 2009, the District Court withdrew the reference of Congoleum’s Chapter 11 case from the Bankruptcy Court and assumed authority over the proceedings. Congoleum’s Chapter 11 case remains pending. An amended joint plan of reorganization for Congoleum proposed by the ACC, the FCR, the Bondholders’ Committee and Congoleum was filed in the District Court, which plan is referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as the “Fourth Amended Joint Plan.” While Congoleum believes that the Fourth Amended Joint Plan has sufficient creditor support to be confirmed, there can be no assurance that the Fourth Amended Joint Plan or any other plan of reorganization for Congoleum, if proposed, will receive the acceptances necessary for confirmation, that the Fourth Amended Joint Plan will not be modified further, that any plan will receive necessary court approvals from the District Court, that such approvals will be received in a timely fashion, that any plan will be confirmed, that any pl an, if confirmed, will become effective, or that there will be sufficient funds to pay for continued proceedings with respect to any plan of reorganization. In addition, certain insurers have filed notices of appeal with respect to the District Court Order with the Third Circuit. Although those insurers have agreed to cause that appeal to be dismissed with prejudice within three business days of the District Court’s order approving the Multi-Insurer Settlement becoming a final order, there can be no assurance that such order will become a final order, that such appeal will be dismissed or that the District Court Order will not be reversed by the Third Circuit or other court having authority over the matter. It also is unclear whether any other person might successfully propose and confirm a plan or what any such plan, if and when confirmed, would ultimately provide, and whether the District Court would approve such a plan. Any plan of reorganization pursued by the Company will be subject to numerous conditions, approvals and other requirements, including District Court approvals, and there can be no assurance that such conditions, approvals and other requirements will be satisfied or obtained. In order to obtain confirmation of any reorganization plan, Congoleum will need sufficient funds to pay for the continued litigation with these insurers as well as the bankruptcy proceedings generally. In addition, for a plan of reorganization to be confirmed, Congoleum will need to obtain and demonstrate the sufficiency of exit financing. Congoleum cannot presently determine the terms of such financing, nor can there be any assurances of its success obtaining it. 11 Under the terms of the Fourth Amended Joint Plan, ABI’s ownership interest in Congoleum would be eliminated. ABI expects that its ownership interest in Congoleum would be eliminated under any alternate plan or outcome in Congoleum’s Chapter 11 case. ABI has certain intercompany claims against and arrangements with Congoleum. The Fourth Amended Joint Plan would govern an intercompany settlement and ongoing intercompany arrangements among ABI and its subsidiaries and reorganized Congoleum, which would be effective if and when the Fourth Amended Joint Plan takes effect and which ABI currently expects would have a term of two years. The Fourth Amended Joint Plan provides that the final terms of the intercompany arrangements among ABI and its subsidiaries and reorganized Congoleum would be memorialized in a new agreement to be entered into by reorganized Congoleum and American Biltrite in form and substance mutually agreeable to the Bondholders’ Committee, the ACC, the FCR and ABI. Although the form of the new agreement has not yet been filed with the District Court, the current proposed plan on file with the District Court contemplates that the form of the new agreement will be filed as a plan supplement. ABI currently expects that the form of the new agreement to be filed with the District Court will be substantially similar to the forms of that new agreement filed with recent prior proposed plans of reorganization for Congoleum and include the provision of management services by ABI to reorganized Congoleum and other business relationships substantially consistent with their traditional relationships. The existing arrangements currently in effect among ABI and its non-debtor subsidiaries and Congoleum expire on June 30, 2010, unless renewed. In addition, under the terms of the Fourth Amended Joint Plan, ABI’s rights and claims to indemnification from Congoleum under the existing joint venture agreement between ABI and Congoleum that relate to ABI’s contribution to Congoleum in 1993 of ABI’s tile division, and the joint venture agreeme nt itself, would be deemed rejected and disallowed upon the effective date of the Fourth Amended Joint Plan, and therefore eliminated. The Fourth Amended Joint Plan’s proposed rejection and disallowance of the joint venture agreement and ABI’s claims thereunder including any unfunded indemnification claims ABI may have had prepetition and during the pendency of Congoleum’s Chapter 11 case as well as any such claims ABI might otherwise have been entitled to assert after the Fourth Amended Joint Plan became effective. There can be no assurance that ABI, Congoleum and other applicable Congoleum constituencies will be able to reach agreement on the terms of any management services proposed to be provided by ABI to reorganized Congoleum or any other proposed business relationships among ABI and its affiliates and reorganized Congoleum. Any plan of reorganization for Congoleum that may be confirmed may have terms that differ significantly from the terms contemplated by the Fourth Amended Joint Pl an, including with respect to any management services that may be provided by ABI to reorganized Congoleum and ABI’s claims and interests and other business relationships with reorganized Congoleum. In addition, in view of ABI’s relationships with Congoleum, ABI will be affected by Congoleum’s negotiations regarding, and its pursuit of, any plan of reorganization, and there can be no assurance as to what that impact, positive or negative, might be. In any event, the failure of Congoleum to obtain confirmation and consummation of a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization would have a material adverse effect on Congoleum’s business, results of operations or financial condition and could have a material adverse effect on ABI’s business, results of operations or financial condition. 12 The Company has its own direct asbestos liability as well. The Company’s strategy remains to vigorously defend against and strategically settle its asbestos claims on a case-by-case basis. To date, the Company’s insurers have funded substantially all of the Company’s liabilities and expenses related to its asbestos liability under the Company’s applicable insurance policies. The Company expects its insurance carriers will continue to defend and indemnify it for a substantial amount of its asbestos liabilities for the foreseeable future pursuant to an umbrella/first-layer excess policies arrangement between the Company and the applicable insurance carriers. It is possible that asbestos claims may be asserted against the Company alleging exposure allocable solely to years in which the C ompany’s insurance policies excluded coverage for asbestos, that the policies providing coverage under the umbrella/first-layer excess policies arrangement will exhaust, or that the carriers responsible for such policies may at some future date be unwilling or unable to fund coverage under the policies or that arrangement. If ABI were to incur significant additional asbestos liabilities for which it did not have insurance coverage or was not able to receive recoveries under its insurance policies, ABI may have to fund such liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on ABI’s business, results of operations or financial condition. As a result of Congoleum’s significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos claims, there can be no assurance that if Congoleum were to incur any unforecasted or unexpected liability or disruption to its business or operations it would be able to withstand that liability or disruption and continue as an operating company. Any significant increase of the Company’s asbestos liability and funding exposure would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operations and financial condition and possibly its ability to continue as a going concern. In the past, federal legislation has been proposed which would establish a national trust to provide compensation to victims of asbestos-related injuries and channel all current and future asbestos-related personal injury claims to that trust. In light of the numerous uncertainties surrounding this and other possible asbestos legislation in the United States, ABI does not know what effects any such legislation, if adopted, may have upon its or Congoleum’s businesses, results of operations or financial conditions, or upon any plan of reorganization for Congoleum. For further information regarding the Company’s and Congoleum’s asbestos liability, insurance coverage and strategies to resolve that asbestos liability, see Notes 1, 8 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which are included in Part II, Item 8 and Part II, Item 9, respectively, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Elimination of the Company’s equity interests in Congoleum could have a material adverse impact on the business relationships between ABI and Congoleum and ABI’s business, operations and financial condition. ABI expects that its ownership interest in Congoleum will be eliminated under any plan or outcome in Congoleum’s Chapter 11 case. There can be no assurances as to the ownership structure under the terms of any reorganization plan for Congoleum that may be proposed, including the Fourth Amended Joint Plan, or how such structure and any other change in ownership and control may affect reorganized Congoleum’s business, operations and financial condition, or its future relationships with ABI. 13 ABI provides management services to Congoleum, sells and purchases products to and from Congoleum, and receives royalties from Congoleum. Agreements for these current intercompany arrangements expire on June 30, 2010, or upon the effectiveness of a plan of reorganization for Congoleum, whichever comes first. It is not known whether ABI, Congoleum and the other parties in interest would agree to extend the term of these arrangements if a plan of reorganization for Congoleum is not effective by June 30, 2010, and if so, for how long any extension would last or what the terms of any such extension and related intercompany arrangements would be. ABI currently expects that the terms of the Fourth Amended Joint Plan will provide for certain intercompany arrangements continuing for a two year period ending on the s econd anniversary of the effective date of the Fourth Amended Joint Plan pursuant to a new agreement to be entered into by ABI and reorganized Congoleum on the effective date of the Fourth Amended Joint Plan. The Fourth Amended Joint Plan provides that the new agreement would be in form and substance mutually agreeable to the Bondholders’ Committee, the ACC, the FCR and ABI. Although the form of the new agreement has not yet been filed with the District Court, the current proposed plan on file with the District Court contemplates that the form of the new agreement will be filed as a plan supplement. ABI currently expects that the form of the new agreement to be filed with the District Court will be substantially similar to the forms of that new agreement filed with recent prior proposed plans of reorganization for Congoleum and include the provision of management services by ABI to reorganized Congoleum and other business relationships substantially consistent with their traditional relationships. Thos e prior forms of new agreement provided that ABI’s current chief executive officer would serve as a director and the chief executive officer of reorganized Congoleum and ABI would have to make available to reorganized Congoleum substantially all of his time during normal working hours on an annual basis, ABI would have to make available to reorganized Congoleum approximately 25% of the time of ABI’s current president and chief operating officer during normal working hours and on an annual basis, and ABI’s current chief financial officer would serve as the chief financial officer of reorganized Congoleum and ABI would have to make available to reorganized Congoleum approximately 50% of his time during normal working hours and on an annual basis. Expiration or termination of such intercompany arrangements, failure to reach definitive agreement on final terms of future arrangements between ABI and reorganized Congoleum, or failure to consummate such arrangements in connection with the effectiv eness of a plan of reorganization for Congoleum or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on the business relationships between ABI and Congoleum, and ABI’s business, operations and financial condition. The Company relies on debt financing to fund its business, operations and working capital needs, it has had to amend its debt agreements in the past in order to avoid being in default under those agreements and may have to do so again in the future, and the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing may be limited. The Company relies on borrowings under its revolving and letter of credit facilities to fund its working capital requirements and operations. The credit agreement governing that credit facility requires the Company to satisfy certain financial and other covenants. In the past, the Company has had to amend its debt agreements in order to avoid defaulting under those agreements as a result of failing to satisfy certain financial covenants contained in those agreements. Most recently, the Company amended the credit agreement in March 2010 to reduce the minimum required levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization under the credit 14 agreement, and further provide that meeting the minimum level of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio would not be required for any monthly test period during which the Company’s unused available credit under the credit agreement was at least $6 million for 30 consecutive days. Although the Company currently anticipates it will be able to comply with its covenants under its credit agreement, as amended, due to economic or other conditions or reasons, the Company may in the future fail to comply with its covenants. If that were to occur, the Company would likely need to obtain a waiver of such covenant breach from the lenders or enter into an amendment to the credit agreement to address the covenant breach. There can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in obtaining any such waiver or entering into any such amendment. If an event of default under the credit agreement were to occur, the lenders could cease to make borrowings available under the credit facilities and require the Company to repay all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement. If the Company were unable to repay those amounts due, the lenders could have their rights over the collateral exercised, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, under the terms of the credit agreement, the Company’s ability to obtain additional debt financing is limited. Moreover, since the Company and its subsidiaries have already granted security interests in most of their assets, the Company’s ability to obtain any additional debt financing may be limited. Further, in light of the difficult conditions in the global credit markets, credit may be more expensive and difficult to obtain, which if such conditions continue, may further limit the availability of any additional financing for the Company. If a lender under the Company’s credit facilities fails to fund a request by the Company to borrow money under that credit facility, the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The Company and Congoleum sell their products on credit and their customers may fail to pay, or they may extend the payment period, for products sold to them on credit. The Company and Congoleum sell their products on credit. Customers purchasing goods on credit from the Company or Congoleum may default on their obligations to pay, or they may extend the payment period, for products sold to them on credit, which may result in an increased investment in accounts receivable by the Company or Congoleum. In light of the recent difficult economic and industry conditions, the risk that the Company and Congoleum may realize an increased investment in accounts receivable may be greater. To the extent the Company and Congoleum are unable to collect receivables owed to them in a timely fashion, increased demands may be placed on their respective working capital, which could have a material adverse effect on their respective businesses, results of operations or financial condition. 15 The Company may not be able to maintain its listing with the NYSE Amex LLC. On May 28, 2009, the Company received written notice from the NYSE Amex LLC (the "NYSE Amex") indicating that the Company does not meet certain of the continued listing standards of the NYSE Amex. Specifically, the notice stated that the Company is not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(i) of the NYSE Amex Company Guide, with stockholders’ equity of less than $2,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two of its three most recent fiscal years; and Section 1003(a)(ii) of the NYSE Amex Company Guide, with stockholders' equity of less than $4,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years. On or about June 29, 2009, the Company submitted a plan for compliance with the continued listing standards with the NYSE Amex, a nd on August 31, 2009, the Company received a letter from the NYSE Amex indicating that the Amex had accepted the plan submitted by the Company to regain compliance with certain continued listing standards, and would extend the deadline for meeting those standards to November 29, 2010. The Company’s listing on the Amex is being continued pursuant to this extension. Although the Company was granted an extension by the NYSE Amex until November 29, 2010 to comply with the applicable listing standards, the NYSE Amex may still initiate delisting proceedings, including if it believes that the Company fails to show sufficient progress consistent with its plan for compliance or if the Company fails to comply with other NYSE Amex listing standards. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its listing with the NYSE Amex. If the Company's common stock is delisted, the market for the Company's common stock may be significantly adversely affected, including as a result of possible less li quidity which generally occurs for securities traded in the over-the-counter market as compared with securities traded on a national securities exchange, difficulty reselling shares at prices quoted in the market or at all, broader market fluctuations, and depressed share price. In addition, a delisting may make it difficult for the Company to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing the Company may need in the future. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum may incur substantial liability or be required to expend significant amounts for environmental claims and compliance matters, including possible climate change related matters. Due to the nature of the Company’s and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum’s businesses and certain of the substances which are or have been used, produced or discharged by them, the Company’s and Congoleum’s operations and facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign legal and regulatory provisions relating to the environment, including those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances at Company and Congoleum facilities and off-site disposal locations. The Company and Congoleum have historically expended substantial amounts for compliance with existing environmental laws or reg ulations, including environmental remediation costs at both third-party sites and Company and Congoleum-owned sites. The Company and Congoleum will continue to be required to expend amounts in the future because of the nature of their prior activities at their facilities, in order to comply with existing environmental laws, and those amounts may be substantial. In addition, legislation and regulation regarding climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions, and other environmental matters may be adopted or administered and enforced differently in the future, 16 which could require the Company and Congoleum to expend significant amounts. Further, legislation and regulations that limit carbon emissions may cause the Company’s and Congoleum’s energy costs at their facilities to increase. Although the Company and Congoleum believe that those amounts should not have a material adverse effect on their respective financial positions, except as disclosed in Item 3 (Legal Proceedings) and Note 8 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K,, there is no certainty that these amounts will not have a material adverse effect on their respective financial positions because, as a result of environmental requirements becoming increasingly strict, neither the Company nor Con goleum is able to determine the ultimate cost of compliance with environmental laws and enforcement policies. Moreover, in addition to potentially having to pay substantial amounts for compliance, future environmental laws or regulations may require or cause the Company or Congoleum to modify or curtail their operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum, may incur substantial liability for other product and general liability claims. In the ordinary course of their businesses, the Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum become involved in lawsuits, administrative proceedings, product liability claims and other matters. In some of these proceedings, plaintiffs may seek to recover large and sometimes unspecified amounts and the matters may remain unresolved for several years. These matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition if the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, is unable to successfully defend against or settle these matters, and its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy judgments against it or settlements relating to these matters, or the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, is unable to collect insurance proceeds relating to these ma tters. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are dependent upon a continuous supply of raw materials from third party suppliers and would be harmed if there were a significant, prolonged disruption in supply or increase in their raw material costs or other costs of sales, such as energy costs. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum generally design and engineer their own products. Most of the raw materials required by the Company for its manufacturing operations are available from multiple sources; however, the Company does purchase some of its raw materials from a single source or supplier. Any significant delay in or disruption of the supply of raw materials could substantially increase the Company’s cost of materials, require product reformulation or require qualification of new suppliers, any one or more of which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company’s majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum does not have readily available alternative sources of supply for specific designs of transfer p rint paper, which are produced utilizing print cylinders engraved to Congoleum’s specifications. Although Congoleum does not anticipate any loss of this source of supply, replacement could take a considerable period of time and interrupt production of certain products, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and Congoleum have occasionally experienced significant price increases for some of its raw materials. 17 Although the Company has been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials, there can be no assurances that it may not experience difficulty in the future, particularly if global supply conditions deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on profit margins. In addition, raw material and energy costs have been volatile, including over the past few years during which historic highs for these costs have been experienced, particularly during the first half of 2008, which has negatively impacted the Company’s and Congoleum’s businesses and operating results. Although raw material and energy costs have recently declined from those historic high levels, they have generally increased recently. In addition to supply and demand issues affecting raw material and energy costs, the adopti on of new, or any heightened administration and enforcement of existing, legislation and regulations that impact those costs, such as legislation or regulations regarding climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions, may result in increased raw material and energy costs for the Company and Congoleum. In light of the current and forecasted economic conditions in the United States and the industries in which the Company and Congoleum conduct business, the Company and Congoleum may be unable to pass increased raw material and energy costs on to their respective customers. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum operate in highly competitive markets and some of their competitors have greater resources, and in order to be successful, the Company and Congoleum must keep pace with and anticipate changing customer preferences. The market for the Company’s and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum’s products and services is highly competitive. Some of their respective competitors have greater financial and other resources and access to capital. Furthermore, to the extent any of the Company’s or Congoleum’s competitors make a filing under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and emerge from bankruptcy as continuing operating companies that have shed much of their pre-filing liabilities, those competitors could have a cost competitive advantage over Congoleum. In addition, in order to maintain their competitive positions, the Company and Congoleum may need to make substantial investments in their businesses, including, as applicable, product dev elopment, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for their products and in the loss of market share for their products. Moreover, due to the competitive nature of their industries, they may be commercially restricted from raising or even maintaining the sales prices of their products, which could result in the incurrence of significant operating losses if their expenses were to increase or otherwise represent an increased percentage of sales. The markets in which the Company and Congoleum compete are characterized by frequent new product introductions and changing customer preferences. There can be no assurance that the Company’s and Congoleum’s existing products and services will be properly positioned in the market or that the Company and Congoleum will be able to introduce new or enhanced products or services into their respective markets on a timely basis, or at all, or that those new or enhanced products or services will receive customer acceptance. The Company’s and Congoleum’s failure to introduce new or enhanced products or services on a timely basis, keep pace with industry or market changes or effectively manage the transitions to new products, technologies or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. 18 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are subject to general economic conditions and conditions specific to their respective industries. Economic conditions in the United States have been challenging, including in the industries in which the Company and Congoleum conduct business. The downturn in the housing industry has resulted in reduced demand for the Company’s and Congoleum’s products. The slowdown in manufacturing, including in the automotive and industrial sectors, has resulted in reduced demand for the Tape division’s products. In addition, the decline in consumer and retailer spending has resulted in reduced demand for K&M’s products. Forecasts generally call for a gradual recovery, with some risk of a “double-dip” recession, in the United States, including in the industries in which the Company and Congoleum conduct business. The Company expects economic conditions may continue to negatively impact the Company’s and Congoleum’s businesses and operations and that the extent of that impact will depend on the speed, extent and sustainability of any economic recovery. In addition, raw material and energy costs have been volatile, including over the past few years during which historic highs for these costs have been experienced, particularly during the first half of 2008, which has negatively impacted the Company’s and Congoleum’s businesses and operating results. Although raw material and energy costs have recently declined from those historic high levels, they have generally increased recently. In addition to supply and demand issues affecting raw material and energy costs, the adoption of new, or any heightened administration and enforcement of existing, legislation and regulations that impact those costs, such as legislation or regulations regarding climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions, may result in increased raw material and energy costs fo r the Company and Congoleum. In light of the current and forecasted economic conditions in the United States and the industries in which the Company and Congoleum conduct business, the Company and Congoleum may be unable to pass increased raw material and energy costs on to their respective customers. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum could realize shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from unexpected disruptions of operations at any of the Company’s or Congoleum’s facilities. The Company’s and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum’s businesses depend upon their ability to timely manufacture and deliver products that meet the needs of their customers and the end users of their products. If the Company or Congoleum were to realize an unexpected, significant and prolonged disruption of its operations at any of its facilities, including disruptions in its manufacturing operations, it could result in shipment delays of its products, depletion of its inventory as a result of reduced production and increased production costs as a result of taking actions in an attempt to cure the disruption or carry on its business while the disruption remains. Any resulting delay, depletion or increased production cost could result in increased costs, lower revenues and damaged customer a nd product end user relations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. 19 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum offer limited warranties on their products which could result in the Company or Congoleum incurring significant costs as a result of warranty claims. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum offer a limited warranty on many of their products against manufacturing defects. In addition, as a part of its efforts to differentiate mid- and high-end products through color, design and other attributes, Congoleum offers enhanced warranties with respect to wear, moisture discoloration and other performance characteristics which generally increase with the price of such products. If the Company or Congoleum were to incur a significant number of warranty claims, the resulting warranty costs could be substantial. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum rely on a small number of customers and distributors for a significant portion of their sales or to sell their products. The Company’s Tape Division principally sells its products through distributors. Sales to five unaffiliated customers accounted for approximately 22% of the Company’s Tape Division’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. The loss of the largest unaffiliated customer and/or two or more of the other four unaffiliated customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company’s Canadian Division sells its products through distributors and a direct sales force. Sales to five unaffiliated customers accounted for approximately 25% of the Canadian Division’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. The loss of the largest unaffiliated customer and/or two or more of the other four unaffiliated customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company’s majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum principally sells its products through distributors. Although Congoleum has more than one distributor in some of its distribution territories and actively manages its credit exposure to its distributors, the loss of a major distributor could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations, or financial condition. Congoleum derives a significant percentage of its sales from two of its distributors. These two distributors accounted for approximately 60% of Congoleum’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. The loss of one or both of these customers would have a material adverse effect on Congoleum’s business, results of operations and financial condition and would lik ely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations. The Company’s subsidiary K&M sells its products through its own direct sales force and, indirectly, through a wholly owned subsidiary and through third-party sales representatives. Three of K&M’s customers accounted for approximately 52% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. The loss of the largest of these customers would have a material adverse effect on K&M’s business, results of operations and financial condition and would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. 20 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum depend on key executives to run their businesses, and the loss of any of these executives would likely harm the Company’s business. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum depend on key executives to run their businesses. In particular, three of the persons that serve as key executives at the Company also serve as key executives at Congoleum. The Company’s future success will depend largely upon the continued service of these key executives, all of whom have no employment contract with the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, and may terminate their employment at any time without notice. Although certain key executives of the Company and Congoleum are, directly or indirectly, large shareholders of the Company or Congoleum, and thus are less likely to terminate their employment, the loss of any key executive, or the failure by the key executive to perform in his current position, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 21 