Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum have significant asbestos liability and funding exposure, and the Company's and Congoleum's strategies for resolving this exposure may not be successful. As more fully set forth in Notes 1, 8 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company and Congoleum have significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos personal injury claims. Congoleum has entered into settlement agreements with various asbestos claimants totaling in excess of $491 million. The Bankruptcy Court issued a ruling in February 2007 determining that such claimants cannot receive, as a result of their pre-petition settlements, preferential treatment under a plan. Congoleum has resumed plan mediation discussions with parties in interest to resolve this and certain other plan issues and has also appealed the Bankruptcy Court ruling to the District Court. There can be no assurance that Congoleum will be successful in its appeal or in negotiating a new plan of reorganization that resolves the issues raised in the Bankruptcy Court's ruling with respect to the Tenth Plan, that Congoleum will obtain approval to solicit acceptances of a new plan of reorganization, that Congoleum will receive the acceptances necessary for confirmation of a plan of reorganization, that any proposed plan will not be modified further, that a plan will receive necessary court approvals from the Bankruptcy Court and the District Court, or that such approvals will be received in a timely fashion, that a plan will be confirmed, that a plan, if confirmed, will become effective, or that there will be sufficient funds to pay for continued litigation with respect to Congoleum's Chapter 11 case or the New Jersey state court insurance coverage case which Congoleum is pursuing against certain of its insurance 9 carriers (as further discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). It also is unclear whether any other person will attempt to propose a plan or what any such plan would provide or propose, and whether the Bankruptcy Court would approve such a plan. The terms of any new plan of reorganization are likely to be materially different from the Tenth and Eleventh Plans, including with respect to the Company and its interests, such as the Company's Congoleum equity interests and the amount and form of any contribution the Company may be required to make to the Plan Trust in order to receive the limited channeling injunctive relief that would have been provided to the Company under the Eleventh Plan. Further, any new plan of reorganization could be amended or modified as a result of further negotiations with various parties. Congoleum expects that it will take until some time late in the third quarter of 2007 at the earliest to obtain confirmation of any plan of reorganization. Furthermore, the estimated costs and contributions to effect any plan of reorganization could be significantly greater than currently estimated. Any plan of reorganization pursued by Congoleum will be subject to numerous conditions, approvals and other requirements, including Bankruptcy Court and Federal District Court approvals, and there can be no assurance that such conditions, approvals and other requirements will be satisfied or obtained. Confirmation of a plan of reorganization will depend on Congoleum obtaining exit financing to provide it with sufficient liquidity to fund obligations upon the plan becoming effective. In addition, under the terms of the Tenth Plan and Eleventh Plan, the Plan Trust was to provide Congoleum with a loan in an amount not to exceed $14 million, unless otherwise agreed by the FCR and ACC. There can be no assurance that any new plan of reorganization would provide Congoleum with a similar financing arrangement. If Congoleum's cash flow from operations is materially less than anticipated, and/or if the costs in connection with seeking confirmation of Congoleum's plan of reorganization or in connection with Congoleum's New Jersey state court insurance coverage litigation are materially more than anticipated, or if sufficient funds from insurance proceeds or other sources are not available upon plan confirmation, Congoleum may be unable to obtain exit financing, when combined with net cash provided from operating activities, that would provide it with sufficient funds, which would likely result in Congoleum not being able to have an amended plan of reorganization confirmed or have such plan become effective. Some insurers contend that, if there is a ruling in the first phase of the New Jersey state court coverage litigation that there is no coverage for the claims submitted by asbestos claimants and settled under the Claimant Agreement, and/or depending on the factual and legal basis for such ruling, then the insurers will also not owe coverage for any claims of such Claimant Agreement claimants even if Congoleum and such claimants agreed to amend the Claimant Agreement and/or to settle their claims under other claims payment standards, including bankruptcy Trust Distribution Procedures (TDPs). Congoleum believes, however, that even if the insurers were to succeed in the first phase of the Coverage Action, such result would not prohibit individual claimants and Congoleum from negotiating new and/or different settlements, and/or amending the Claimant Agreement, and then seeking payment from its insurers for such settlements. In addition, Congoleum does not believe that it would be deprived of coverage-in-place insurance for non-settled asbestos claims. However, there can be no assurances of the outcome of these matters or their potential effect on the Company's ability to obtain approval of a plan of reorganization. Congoleum intends to contest any attempt by the insurers to enlarge or expand upon a Phase 1 ruling that is adverse to Congoleum. However, there can be no assurances of the outcome 10 of these matters. Congoleum spent approximately $31.6 million from January 31, 2003 through December 31, 2006 related to this coverage litigation. Amounts necessary to fund further coverage litigation in the future may also be material, and Congoleum may not have the financial resources to provide such funding. Some additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from Congoleum's goals for resolving its asbestos liability through an amended plan of reorganization include: (i) the future cost and timing of estimated asbestos liabilities and payments, (ii) the availability of insurance coverage and reimbursement from insurance companies that underwrote the applicable insurance policies for Congoleum for asbestos-related claims, including insurance coverage and reimbursement for asbestos claimants under any Congoleum plan of reorganization, which certain insurers have objected to in Bankruptcy Court and are litigating in New Jersey state court, (iii) the costs relating to the execution and implementation of any Congoleum plan of reorganization, (iv) timely reaching agreement with other creditors, or classes of creditors, that exist or may emerge, (v) satisfaction of the conditions and obligations under the Company's and Congoleum's outstanding debt instruments, and amendment of those debt instruments, as necessary, to permit Congoleum and the Company to satisfy their obligations under any plan of reorganization, (vi) the response from time to time of the lenders, customers, suppliers, holders of the Senior Notes and their representatives, and other creditors and constituencies of Congoleum and ABI to the Chapter 11 process and related developments arising from Congoleum's strategy to resolve its asbestos liabilities, (vii) Congoleum's ability to maintain debtor-in-possession financing sufficient to provide it with funding that may be needed during the pendency of its Chapter 11 case and to obtain exit financing sufficient to provide it with funding that may be needed for its operations after emerging from the bankruptcy process, in each case, on reasonable terms, (viii) timely obtaining sufficient creditor and court approval (including the results of any relevant appeals) of any reorganization plan pursued by Congoleum and the court overruling any objections to that reorganization plan that may be filed, (ix) developments in, costs associated with and the outcome of insurance coverage litigation pending in New Jersey state court involving Congoleum and certain insurers, (x) the extent to which Congoleum is able to obtain reimbursement for costs it incurs in connection with the insurance coverage litigation pending in New Jersey state court, (xi) compliance with the Bankruptcy Code, including Section 524(g), and (xii) the possible adoption of another party's plan of reorganization, which may prove to be unfeasible. In addition, in view of ABI's relationships with Congoleum, ABI will be affected by Congoleum's negotiations regarding, and its pursuit of, a plan of reorganization, and there can be no assurance as to what that impact, positive or negative, might be. In any event, the failure of Congoleum to obtain confirmation and consummation of a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization would have a material adverse effect on Congoleum's business, results of operations or financial condition and could have a material adverse effect on ABI's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company has its own direct asbestos liability as well. The Company's strategy remains to vigorously defend and strategically settle its asbestos claims on a case-by-case basis. To date, the Company's insurers have funded substantially all of the Company's liabilities and expenses related to its asbestos liability under the Company's applicable insurance policies. The Company expects its insurance carriers will continue to defend and indemnify it for its asbestos liabilities for the foreseeable future. If, however, it were 11 not able to receive such coverage from its insurers for the Company's asbestos liabilities and expenses, that would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position. In addition, certain of the excess liability insurance policies that the Company purchased were underwritten by companies that are now insolvent, which may limit the amount of funds available to pay for any future claims covered by these policies. It is also possible that asbestos claims may be asserted against the Company alleging exposure allocable solely to years in which the Company's insurance policies excluded coverage for asbestos. In addition, there has been federal legislation proposed that, if adopted, would establish a national trust to provide compensation to victims of asbestos-related injuries and channel all current and future asbestos-related personal injury claims to that trust. Due to the uncertainties of this legislation, the Company does not know what effects any such legislation, if adopted, may have upon its or Congoleum's businesses, results of operations or financial conditions, or upon any plan of reorganization Congoleum may decide to pursue. To date, Congoleum has expended significant amounts to resolve its asbestos liability pursuant to a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization. To the extent any federal legislation is enacted which does not credit Congoleum for amounts paid by Congoleum pursuant to its plan of reorganization strategy or requires the Company or Congoleum to pay significant amounts to any national trust or otherwise, such legislation could have a material adverse effect on the Company or Congoleum's businesses, results of operations or financial conditions. As a result of Congoleum's significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos claims, there can be no assurance that if Congoleum were to incur any unforecasted or unexpected liability or disruption to its business or operations it would be able to withstand that liability or disruption and continue as an operating company. Any significant increase of the Company's asbestos liability and funding exposure would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operations and financial condition and possibly its ability to continue as a going concern. For further information regarding the Company's and Congoleum's asbestos liability, insurance coverage and strategies to resolve that asbestos liability, please see Notes 1, 8 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any plan of reorganization for Congoleum will likely result in substantial dilution or even elimination of the interests of Congoleum's equity holders, including the Company. Congoleum's Tenth Plan, which has been ruled unconfirmable as a matter of law by the Bankruptcy Court, would have resulted in significant dilution of Congoleum's existing equity interests, including the Company's Congoleum equity interests. Congoleum has resumed plan mediation discussions with parties in interest to negotiate a new amended plan. The terms of any new amended plan proposed by Congoleum, or any proposed plan of reorganization proposed for Congoleum by other parties in interest, may provide for even greater dilution of the Congoleum equity interests than was contemplated by the Eleventh Plan, including cancellation of Congoleum's existing Class A and Class B common stock. There can be no assurance as to how Congoleum's existing equity interests, including ABI's Congoleum equity interests, will be treated under any plan of reorganization for Congoleum that may ultimately be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court and consummated. 12 Elimination of ABI's controlling equity interest in Congoleum could have a material adverse impact on Congoleum's business, operations and financial condition, the business relationships between ABI and Congoleum, and ABI's business, operations and financial condition. The Company has had to amend its debt agreements in the past in order to avoid being in default of those agreements and may have to do so again in the future, and the Company's ability to obtain additional financing may be limited. In the past, the Company has had to amend its debt agreements in order to avoid being in default of those agreements as a result of failing to satisfy certain financial covenants contained in those agreements. Most recently, on September 25, 2006, the Company entered into an amendment and restatement to the credit agreement it has with Bank of America, National Association and Bank of America, National Association acting through its Canada branch, which is the agreement that governs the Company's primary source of borrowings. In connection with that amendment and restatement, certain financial covenants were amended under the credit agreement to enable the Company to comply with those covenants. Although the Company does not anticipate that it will need to further amend the credit agreement to avoid being in default at some future date, there can be no assurances in that regard. If the Company were to violate one of those covenants and not amend the agreement to address or obtain a waiver of the violation, it could breach the agreement, resulting in a default of the agreement. If such a default were to occur, the lenders could require the Company to repay all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement. If the Company were unable to repay those amounts due, the lenders could have its rights over the collateral (most of the Company's and its domestic subsidiaries' (excluding Congoleum) assets) exercised, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, under the terms of the credit agreement, the Company's ability to obtain additional debt financing is limited. Moreover, since the Company and most of its domestic subsidiaries have already granted security interests in most of their assets, the Company's ability to obtain any additional debt financing may be limited. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum may incur substantial liability for environmental claims and compliance matters. Due to the nature of the Company's and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum's businesses and certain of the substances which are or have been used, produced or discharged by them, the Company's and Congoleum's operations and facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign legal and regulatory provisions relating to the environment, including those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances at Company and Congoleum facilities and off-site disposal locations. The Company and Congoleum have historically expended substantial amounts for compliance with existing environmental laws or regulations, including environmental remediation costs at both third-party sites and Company and Congoleum-owned sites. The Company and Congoleum will continue to be required to expend amounts in the future because of the nature of their prior activities at their facilities, in order to comply with existing environmental laws, and those amounts may be substantial. Although the Company and Congoleum believe that those amounts should not have a material adverse effect on their respective financial positions, there is no certainty 13 that these amounts will not have a material adverse effect on their respective financial positions because, as a result of environmental requirements becoming increasingly strict, neither the Company nor Congoleum is able to determine the ultimate cost of compliance with environmental laws and enforcement policies. Moreover, in addition to potentially having to pay substantial amounts for compliance, future environmental laws or regulations may require or cause the Company or Congoleum to modify or curtail their operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum, may incur substantial liability for other product and general liability claims. In the ordinary course of their businesses, the Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum become involved in lawsuits, administrative proceedings, product liability claims and other matters. In some of these proceedings, plaintiffs may seek to recover large and sometimes unspecified amounts and the matters may remain unresolved for several years. These matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition if the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, is unable to successfully defend against or settle these matters, and its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against it or settlements relating to these matters, or the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, is unable to collect insurance proceeds relating to these matters. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are dependent upon a continuous supply of raw materials from third party suppliers and would be harmed if there were a significant, prolonged disruption in supply or increase in its raw material costs. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum generally design and engineer their own products. Most of the raw materials required by the Company for its manufacturing operations are available from multiple sources; however, the Company does purchase some of its raw materials from a single source or supplier. Any significant delay in or disruption of the supply of raw materials could substantially increase the Company's cost of materials, require product reformulation or require qualification of new suppliers, any one or more of which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company's majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum, does not have readily available alternative sources of supply for specific designs of transfer print paper, which are produced utilizing print cylinders engraved to Congoleum's specifications. Although Congoleum does not anticipate any loss of this source of supply, replacement could take a considerable period of time and interrupt production of certain products, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and Congoleum have occasionally experienced significant price increases for some of its raw materials. Raw material prices in 2004 and 2005 increased significantly, and supplies of certain materials, particularly vinyl resins, remained tight in the first half of 2006 due to several factors, including the effect of hurricanes in 2005. Although the Company has been able to obtain sufficient supplies of specialty resin and other raw materials, there can be no assurances that it may not experience difficulty in the future, particularly if global supply conditions deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on profit margins. 14 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum operate in highly competitive markets and some of their competitors have greater resources, and in order to be successful, the Company and Congoleum must keep pace with and anticipate changing customer preferences. The market for the Company's and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum's products and services is highly competitive. Some of their respective competitors have greater financial and other resources and access to capital. Furthermore, one of Congoleum's major competitors has successfully confirmed a plan of reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Having shed much of its pre-filing asbestos and other liabilities, that competitor may have a competitive cost advantage over Congoleum. In addition, in order to maintain their competitive positions, the Company and Congoleum may need to make substantial investments in their businesses, including, as applicable, product development, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for their products and in the loss of market share for their products. Moreover, due to the competitive nature of their industries, they may be commercially restricted from raising or even maintaining the sales prices of their products, which could result in the incurrence of significant operating losses if their expenses were to increase or otherwise represent an increased percentage of sales. The markets in which the Company and Congoleum compete are characterized by frequent new product introductions and changing customer preferences. There can be no assurance that the Company's and Congoleum's existing products and services will be properly positioned in the market or that the Company and Congoleum will be able to introduce new or enhanced products or services into their respective markets on a timely basis, or at all, or that those new or enhanced products or services will receive customer acceptance. The Company's and Congoleum's failure to introduce new or enhanced products or services on a timely basis, keep pace with industry or market changes or effectively manage the transitions to new products, technologies or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are subject to general economic conditions and conditions specific to their respective industries. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are subject to the effects of general economic conditions. A sustained general economic slowdown could have serious negative consequences for the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, their businesses are affected by the economic factors that affect their respective industries. The slowdown in the housing industry has resulted in reduced demand for the Company's and Congoleum's products. These conditions could be exacerbated by contraction of the sub-prime mortgage industry. 15 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum could realize shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from unexpected disruptions of operations at any of the Company's or Congoleum's facilities. The Company's and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum's businesses depend upon their ability to timely manufacture and deliver products that meet the needs of their customers and the end users of their products. If the Company or Congoleum were to realize an unexpected, significant and prolonged disruption of its operations at any of its facilities, including disruptions in its manufacturing operations, it could result in shipment delays of its products, depletion of its inventory as a result of reduced production and increased production costs as a result of taking actions in an attempt to cure the disruption or carry on its business while the disruption remains. Any resulting delay, depletion or increased production cost could result in increased costs, lower revenues and damaged customer and product end user relations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum offer limited warranties on their products which could result in the Company or Congoleum incurring significant costs as a result of warranty claims. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum offer a limited warranty on many of their products against manufacturing defects. In addition, as a part of its efforts to differentiate mid- and high-end products through color, design and other attributes, Congoleum offers enhanced warranties with respect to wear, moisture discoloration and other performance characteristics which generally increase with the price of such products. If the Company or Congoleum were to incur a significant number of warranty claims, the resulting warranty costs could be substantial. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum rely on a small number of customers and distributors for a significant portion of their sales or to sell their products. The Company's Tape Division principally sells its products through distributors. Sales to five unaffiliated customers accounted for approximately 22% of the Company's Tape Division's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 23% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005. The loss of the largest unaffiliated customer and/or two or more of the other four unaffiliated customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company's majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum principally sells its products through distributors. Although Congoleum has more than one distributor in some of its distribution territories and actively manages its credit exposure to its distributors, the loss of a major distributor could have a materially adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations, or financial condition. Congoleum derives a significant percentage of its sales from two of its distributors. These two distributors accounted for approximately 67% of Congoleum's net sales for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. 16 The Company's subsidiary K&M sells its products through its own direct sales force and, indirectly, through a wholly owned subsidiary and through third-party sales representatives. Three of K&M's customers accounted for approximately 54% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 58% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005. The loss of the largest of these customers would have a material adverse effect on K&M's business, results of operations and financial condition and would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum depend on key executives to run their businesses, and the loss of any of these executives would likely harm the Company's business. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum depend on key executives to run their businesses. In particular, three of the persons that serve as key executives at the Company also serve as key executives at Congoleum. The Company's future success will depend largely upon the continued service of these key executives, all of whom have no employment contract with the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, and may terminate their employment at any time without notice. Although certain key executives of the Company and Congoleum are, directly or indirectly, large shareholders of the Company or Congoleum, and thus are less likely to terminate their employment, the loss of any key executive, or the failure by the key executive to perform in his current position, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 17 