Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company has significant asbestos liability and funding exposure, and the Company’s strategies for resolving this liability and exposure may not be successful. The Company has significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos personal injury claims. The Company’s strategy remains to vigorously defend against and strategically settle its asbestos claims on a case-by-case basis in the normal course of business. To date, the Company’s insurers have funded substantially all of the Company’s liabilities and expenses related to its asbestos liability under the Company’s applicable insurance policies. The Company expects its insurance carriers will continue to defend and indemnify it for a substantial amount of its asbestos liabilities for the foreseeable future pursuant to an umbrella/first-layer excess policies arrangement between the Company and the applicable insurance carriers. However, it is possible that asbestos claims may be asserted against the Company alleging exposure allocable solely to years in which the Company’s insurance policies excluded coverage for asbestos, that the policies providing coverage under the umbrella/first-layer excess policies arrangement will exhaust, or that the carriers responsible for such policies may at some future date be unwilling or unable to fund coverage under the policies or that arrangement. If ABI were to incur significant additional asbestos liabilities for which it did not have insurance coverage or was not able to receive recoveries under its insurance policies, ABI may have to fund such liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on ABI’s business, results of operations or financial condition. In the past, federal legislation has been proposed which would establish a national trust to provide compensation to victims of asbestos-related injuries and channel all current and future asbestos-related personal injury claims to that trust. In light of the numerous uncertainties surrounding this and other possible asbestos legislation in the United States, ABI does not know what effects any such legislation, if adopted, may have upon its business, results of operations or financial conditions. 6 In addition, by operation of the Congoleum plan of reorganization, the joint venture agreement between ABI and Congoleum was effectively terminated. As a result, ABI’s previous rights and claims to indemnification from Congoleum under that joint venture agreement have been terminated. To the extent ABI incurs material amounts for which it would have been entitled to receive indemnification from Congoleum pursuant to that former joint venture agreement, ABI’s financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. For further information regarding the Company’s asbestos liability, insurance coverage and strategies to resolve that asbestos liability, see Notes 1, 8 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which are included in Part II, Item 8 and Part II, Item 9, respectively, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ABI continues to have business arrangements with Congoleum, ABI’s executives continue to provide services to Congoleum, which reduces their availability to the Company, and expiration or termination of the Company’s business arrangements with Congoleum could have a material adverse impact on ABI’s business, operations and financial condition. Although ABI’s equity interests in Congoleum were cancelled effective as of July 1, 2010 by operation of Congoleum’s plan of reorganization, ABI continues to have business arrangements with Congoleum. In particular, pursuant to Congoleum’s plan of reorganization, ABI and Congoleum entered into a management services and commercial agreement. Pursuant to that agreement, ABI’s current Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Roger Marcus, serves as a director and the chief executive officer of Congoleum and American Biltrite’s current Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Howard Feist III, serves as the chief financial officer of Congoleum. In addition, the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Richard Marcus, currently serves as an executive vice president of Congoleum. Pursuant to the management services and commercial agreement, substantially all of Mr. Roger Marcus’s time, approximately 25% of Mr. Richard Marcus’s time and approximately 50% of Mr. Feist’s time, in each case, during normal working hours on a monthly basis, is required to be made available to Congoleum. As a result, the availability of those executives to the Company is reduced, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company to the extent they are unable to provide services to the Company which the Company needs or which would further the Company’s business and operations. The management services and commercial agreement also includes certain other commercial arrangements between ABI and its subsidiaries and Congoleum, which are substantially consistent with their traditional relationships, including purchase and sale of floor tile products and urethane, rights of American Biltrite to resell Congoleum vinyl, vinyl composition or other floor tile in Canada, the cross-licensing of urethane technology, and the provision of information technology services by Congoleum to American Biltrite. The management services and commercial agreement expires on July 1, 2012, unless renewed. That agreement provides that it may be terminated in whole or in part with respect to the provision of certain management services prior to the expiration of that two year term and there can be no assurances that an early termination will not occur, and the agreement may give rise to other possible sources of claims. The expiration or termination of the Company’s business arrangements with Congoleum would have a material adverse impact on ABI’s business, operations and financial condition. 7 The Company relies on debt financing to fund its business, operations and working capital needs; it has had to amend its debt agreements in the past in order to avoid being in default under those agreements and may have to do so again in the future, and the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing may be limited. The Company relies on borrowings under its revolving and letter of credit facilities to fund its working capital requirements and operations. The credit agreement governing those credit facilities requires the Company to satisfy certain financial and other covenants. In the past, the Company has had to amend its debt agreements in order to avoid defaulting under those agreements as a result of failing to satisfy certain financial covenants contained in those agreements. Most recently, the Company amended its current credit agreement in March 2010 to reduce the minimum required levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization under the credit agreement, and further provide that meeting the minimum level of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio would not be required for any monthly test period during which the Company’s unused available credit under the credit agreement was at least $6 million for 30 consecutive days. Although the Company currently anticipates it will be able to comply with its covenants under its credit agreement, due to economic or other conditions or reasons, the Company may in the future fail to comply with its covenants. If that were to occur, the Company would likely need to obtain a waiver of such covenant breach from the lenders or enter into an amendment to the credit agreement to address the covenant breach, or obtain replacement financing. There can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in obtaining any such waiver, entering into any such amendment or obtaining such replacement financing. If an event of default under the credit agreement were to occur, the lenders could cease to make borrowings available under the credit facilities and require the Company to repay all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement, including amounts outstanding under the term loan and revolving credit facilities. If the Company were unable to repay those amounts due, the lenders could have their rights over the collateral exercised, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, under the terms of the credit agreement, the Company’s ability to obtain additional debt financing is limited. Moreover, since the Company and its subsidiaries have already granted security interests in most of their assets, the Company’s ability to obtain any additional debt financing may be limited. Further, in light of the recent and current economic, industry and global credit market conditions and the Company’s recent operating losses, credit may be more expensive and difficult for the Company to obtain, which if such conditions continue, may further limit the availability of any additional financing for the Company. 8 The Company sells its products on credit and its customers may fail to pay, or they may extend the payment period, for products sold to them on credit. The Company sells its products on credit. Customers purchasing goods on credit from the Company may default on their obligations to pay, or they may extend the payment period, for products sold to them on credit, which may result in an increased investment in accounts receivable by the Company. In light of the recent difficult economic and industry conditions, the risk that the Company may realize an increased investment in accounts receivable may be greater. To the extent the Company is unable to collect receivables owed to it in a timely fashion, increased demands may be placed on its working capital, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company may incur substantial liability or be required to expend significant amounts for environmental claims and compliance matters, including possible climate change related matters. Due to the nature of the Company’s business and certain of the substances which are or have been used, produced or discharged with respect to its business, the Company’s operations and facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign legal and regulatory provisions relating to the environment, including those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances at Company facilities and off-site disposal locations. The Company has historically expended substantial amounts for compliance with existing environmental laws or regulations, including environmental remediation costs at both third-party sites and Company-owned sites. The Company will continue to be required to expend amounts in the future because of the nature of its prior activities at its facilities, in order to comply with existing environmental laws, and those amounts may be substantial. In addition, legislation and regulation regarding climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions, and other environmental matters may be adopted or administered and enforced differently in the future, which could require the Company to expend significant amounts. Further, legislation and regulations that limit carbon emissions may cause the Company’s energy costs at its facilities to increase. Although the Company believes that those amounts should not have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial position, there is no certainty that these amounts will not have such an effect because, as a result of environmental requirements becoming increasingly strict, the Company is unable to determine the ultimate cost of compliance with environmental laws and enforcement policies. For instance, such an effect could occur in connection with those matters disclosed in Item 3 (Legal Proceedings) and Note 8 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. Moreover, in addition to potentially having to pay substantial amounts for compliance, future environmental laws or regulations may require or cause the Company to modify or curtail their operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. 9 The Company may incur substantial liability for other product and general liability claims. In the ordinary course of its business, the Company becomes involved in lawsuits, administrative proceedings, product liability claims and other matters. In some of these proceedings, plaintiffs may seek to recover large and sometimes unspecified amounts and the matters may remain unresolved for several years. These matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition if the Company is unable to successfully defend against or settle these matters, its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy judgments against it or settlements relating to these matters, or the Company is unable to collect insurance proceeds relating to these matters. Raw material and energy costs have been volatile and are at high levels, which has and may continue to negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and liquidity. Raw material and energy costs have been volatile over the past several years, and the Company experienced significant inflation in its inputs during certain periods, including 2010. Global economic recovery and political instability in oil producing nations may contribute to further increasing price levels, and any such further increases could be significant. In addition to supply and demand issues affecting raw material and energy costs, the adoption of new, or any heightened administration and enforcement of existing, legislation and regulations that impact those costs, such as legislation or regulations regarding climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions, may result in increased raw material and energy costs for the Company. In light of the current and forecasted economic conditions in the United States and the industries in which the Company conducts business, the Company may be unable to pass increased raw material and energy costs on to its customers. The Company is dependent upon a continuous supply of raw materials from third party suppliers and would be harmed if there were a significant, prolonged disruption in supply or increase in its raw material costs or other costs of sales, such as energy costs. The Company generally designs and engineers its own products. Most of the raw materials required by the Company for its manufacturing operations are available from multiple sources; however, the Company does purchase some of its raw materials from a single source or supplier. Any significant delay in or disruption of the supply of raw materials could substantially increase the Company’s cost of materials, require product reformulation or require qualification of new suppliers, any one or more of which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company has occasionally experienced significant price increases for some of its raw materials. Although the Company has been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials, there can be no assurances that it may not experience difficulty in the future, particularly if global supply conditions deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on profit margins. 10 The Company operates in highly competitive markets and some of its competitors have greater resources, and in order to be successful, the Company must keep pace with and anticipate changing customer preferences. The market for the Company’s products and services is highly competitive. Some of its competitors have greater financial and other resources and access to capital. In addition, in order to maintain its competitive position, the Company may need to make substantial investments in its business, including, as applicable, product development, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for its products and in the loss of market share for its products. Moreover, due to the competitive nature of its industries, it may be commercially restricted from raising or even maintaining the sales prices of its products, which could result in the incurrence of significant operating losses if its expenses were to increase or otherwise represent an increased percentage of sales. The markets in which the Company competes are characterized by frequent new product introductions and changing customer preferences. There can be no assurance that the Company’s existing products and services will be properly positioned in the market or that the Company will be able to introduce new or enhanced products or services into its markets on a timely basis, or at all, or that those new or enhanced products or services will receive customer acceptance. The Company’s failure to introduce new or enhanced products or services on a timely basis, keep pace with industry or market changes or effectively manage the transitions to new products, technologies or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company is subject to general economic conditions and conditions specific to its industries. While the United States economy and the Company’s business appeared to experience some economic recovery during 2010, certain end markets such as construction remain weak. Both the Tape Division and AB Canada sell into the construction market as well as other industrial markets, while K&M’s sales are influenced by consumer and retail spending levels. The Company expects economic conditions may negatively impact or restrain the Company’s business and operations and that that impact will depend on the speed, extent and sustainability of the United States and global economic recovery as well as geopolitical factors. 11 The Company could realize shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from unexpected disruptions of operations at any of the Company’s facilities. The Company depends upon the timely manufacturing and delivery of products that meet the needs of its customers and the end users of its products. If the Company were to realize an unexpected, significant and prolonged disruption of its operations at any of its facilities, including disruptions in its manufacturing operations, it could result in shipment delays of its products, depletion of its inventory as a result of reduced production and increased production costs as a result of taking actions in an attempt to cure the disruption or carry on its business while the disruption remains. Any resulting delay, depletion or increased production cost could result in increased costs, lower revenues and damaged customer and product end user relations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company offers limited warranties on its products which could result in the Company incurring significant costs as a result of warranty claims. The Company offers a limited warranty on many of its products against manufacturing defects. If the Company were to incur a significant number of warranty claims, the resulting warranty costs could be substantial. The Company relies on a small number of customers, distributors and sales representatives for a significant portion of its sales and to sell its products. The Company’s Tape Division principally sells its products through distributors. Sales to five unaffiliated customers accounted for approximately 23% of the Tape Division’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010. The loss of the largest unaffiliated customer and/or two or more of the other four unaffiliated customers could have a material adverse effect on the Tape Division’s business, results of operations or financial condition. AB Canada sells its products through distributors and a direct sales force. Sales to five unaffiliated customers accounted for approximately 24% of AB Canada’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010. The loss of the largest unaffiliated customer and/or two or more of the other four unaffiliated customers could have a material adverse effect on the AB Canada’s business, results of operations or financial condition. K&M sells its products through its own direct sales force and, indirectly, through a wholly owned subsidiary and through third-party sales representatives. Three of K&M’s customers accounted for approximately 54% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010. The loss of the largest of these customers would have a material adverse effect on K&M’s business, results of operations and financial condition and would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. 12 The failure of the Company’s distributors or sales representatives to adequately perform with respect to the sale of the Company’s products and furtherance of the Company’s business could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company depends on key executives to run its business, and the loss of any of these executives would likely harm the Company’s business. The Company depends on key executives to run its business. Three of the persons that serve as key executives at the Company also serve as key executives at Congoleum pursuant to the management services and commercial agreement the Company and Congoleum entered into pursuant to Congoleum’s plan of reorganization effective as of July 1, 2010. The Company’s future success will depend largely upon the continued service of these key executives, all of whom have no employment contract with the Company and may terminate their employment at any time without notice. Although certain key executives of the Company are large stockholders of the Company, and thus are less likely to terminate their employment, the loss of any key executive, or the failure by the key executive to perform in his current position, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 13 ITEM 