Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum have significant asbestos liability and funding exposure, and the Company's and Congoleum's strategies for resolving this exposure may not be successful. As more fully set forth in Notes 1, 8 and 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is included in this report, the Company and Congoleum have significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos personal injury claims. In connection with Congoleum's strategy for resolving its asbestos liability, in 2003, Congoleum entered into settlement agreements with various asbestos claimants totaling in excess of $491 million. Under the terms of the Eighth Plan, asbestos personal injury claimants voting to accept the plan would irrevocably consent or would be deemed to have irrevocably consented to the forbearance of any claim and lien rights under such settlement agreements. Under the terms of the Eighth Plan, asbestos personal injury claimants voting to accept the plan would irrevocably consent or would be deemed to have irrevocably consented to the forbearance of any claim and lien rights under such settlement agreements. There can be no assurance that Congoleum will obtain approval to solicit acceptances for the Eighth Plan, that Congoleum will receive the acceptances necessary for confirmation of the Eighth Plan, that the Eighth Plan will not be modified further, that the Eighth Plan will receive necessary court approvals from the Bankruptcy Court or the Federal District Court, or that such approvals will be received in a timely fashion, that the Eighth Plan will be confirmed, or that the Eighth Plan, if confirmed, will become effective. In November 2005, the Bankruptcy Court denied a request to extend Congoleum's exclusive right to file a plan of reorganization and solicit acceptances thereof, and plans have been filed by an insurance company and the Official Committee of Bondholders. It is unclear whether any other person will attempt to propose a plan or what any such plan would provide or propose, and whether the Bankruptcy Court would approve a plan other than Congoleum's proposed plan. The Eighth Plan and any alternative plan of reorganization pursued by Congoleum or another plan proponent or confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court and the Federal District Court could materially differ from the description of the Eighth Plan contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Furthermore, the estimated costs and contributions to effect the Eighth Plan or an alternative plan could be significantly greater than currently estimated. Any plan of reorganization pursued by Congoleum will be subject to numerous conditions, approvals and other requirements, including Bankruptcy Court and Federal District Court approvals, and there can be no assurance that such conditions, approvals and other requirements will be satisfied or obtained. There can be no assurance that Congoleum will obtain approval to solicit acceptances for the Eighth Plan, that Congoleum will receive the acceptances necessary for confirmation of the Eighth Plan, that the Eighth Plan will not be modified further, that the Eighth Plan will receive necessary court approvals from the Bankruptcy Court or the Federal District Court, or that such approvals will be received in a timely fashion, that the Eighth Plan will be confirmed, or that the Eighth Plan, if confirmed, will become effective. In November 2005, the Bankruptcy Court denied a request to extend Congoleum's exclusive right to file a plan of reorganization and solicit acceptances thereof, and plans have been filed by an insurance company and the Official Committee of Bondholders. It is unclear whether any other person will attempt to propose a plan or what any such plan would provide or propose, and whether the Bankruptcy Court would approve a plan other than Congoleum's proposed plan. 9 Confirmation of a plan of reorganization will depend on Congoleum obtaining exit financing to provide it with sufficient liquidity to fund obligations upon the plan becoming effective. If Congoleum's cash flow from operations is materially less than anticipated, and/or if the costs in connection with seeking confirmation of the Eighth Plan or in connection with Congoleum's New Jersey state court insurance coverage litigation discussed elsewhere in this report are materially more than anticipated, or if sufficient funds from insurance proceeds or other sources are not available at confirmation to reimburse coverage litigation costs as expected, Congoleum may be unable to obtain exit financing, when combined with net cash provided from operating activities, that would provide it with sufficient funds, which would likely result in Congoleum not being able to confirm an amended plan of reorganization or have such plan become effective. The Company has its own direct asbestos liability as well. The Company's strategy remains to vigorously defend and strategically settle its asbestos claims on a case-by-case basis. To date, the Company's insurers have funded substantially all of the Company's liabilities and expenses related to its asbestos liability under the Company's applicable insurance policies. The Company expects its insurance carriers will continue to defend and indemnify it for its asbestos liabilities for the foreseeable future. If, however, it were not able to receive such coverage from its insurers for the Company's asbestos liabilities and expenses, that would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position. Some additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from Congoleum's and the Company's objectives for resolving asbestos liability include: (i) the future cost and timing of estimated asbestos liabilities and payments; (ii) the availability of insurance coverage and reimbursement from insurance companies that underwrote the applicable insurance policies for asbestos-related claims, including insurance coverage and reimbursement for asbestos claimants under Congoleum's proposed modified plan, which certain insurers have objected to in Bankruptcy Court and are litigating in New Jersey State Court; (iii) costs relating to the execution and implementation of any plan of reorganization pursued by Congoleum or relating to any other plan of reorganization proposed by any other party in interest; (iv) timely reaching an agreement with other creditors, or classes of creditors, that exist or may emerge; (v) satisfaction of the conditions and obligations under the Company's and Congoleum's respective outstanding debt instruments, and amendment of those outstanding debt instruments, as necessary, to permit Congoleum and the Company to satisfy their obligations under Congoleum's proposed plan of reorganization; (vi) the response from time-to-time of the Company's and Congoleum's lenders, customers, suppliers and other constituencies to the Chapter 11 process and related developments arising from the strategy to settle asbestos liability; (vii) Congoleum's ability to maintain debtor-in-possession financing sufficient to provide it with funding that may be needed during the pendency of its Chapter 11 case and to obtain exit financing sufficient to provide it with funding that may be needed for its operations after emerging from the bankruptcy process, in each case, on reasonable terms; (viii) timely obtaining sufficient creditor and court approval of any reorganization plan and the court overruling any objections to the plan that may be filed; (ix) developments in costs associated with and the outcome of insurance coverage litigation pending in New Jersey State Court involving Congoleum and certain insurers; (x) the extent to which Congoleum is able to obtain reimbursement for costs it incurs in connection with the insurance coverage litigation; (xi) compliance with the Bankruptcy Code, including section 524(g); and (xii) the possible adoption of another party in 10 interest's proposed plan of reorganization which may prove to be unfeasible. In addition, in view of American Biltrite's relationships with Congoleum, American Biltrite could be affected by Congoleum's negotiations, and there can be no assurance as to what that impact, positive or negative, might be. In any event, the failure of Congoleum to obtain confirmation and consummation of its anticipated Chapter 11 plan of reorganization would have a material adverse effect on Congoleum's business, results of operations or financial condition and could have a material adverse effect on American Biltrite's business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, there has been federal legislation proposed that, if adopted, would establish a national trust to provide compensation to victims of asbestos-related injuries and channel all current and future asbestos-related personal injury claims to that trust. Due to the uncertainties of this legislation, the Company does not know what effects any such legislation, if adopted, may have upon its or Congoleum's businesses, results of operations or financial conditions, or upon any plan of reorganization Congoleum may decide to pursue. To date, Congoleum has expended significant amounts to resolve its asbestos liability pursuant to a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization. To the extent any federal legislation is enacted which does not credit Congoleum for amounts paid by Congoleum pursuant to its plan of reorganization strategy or requires the Company or Congoleum to pay significant amounts to any national trust or otherwise, such legislation could have a material adverse effect on the Company or Congoleum's businesses, results of operations or financial conditions. As a result of Congoleum's significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos claims, there can be no assurance that if Congoleum were to incur any unforecasted or unexpected liability or disruption to its business or operations it would be able to withstand that liability or disruption and continue as an operating company. Any significant increase of the Company's asbestos liability and funding exposure would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operations and financial condition and possibly its ability to continue as a going concern. For further information regarding the Company's and Congoleum's asbestos liability, insurance coverage and strategies to resolve that asbestos liability, please see Notes 1, 8 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in this report. Any plan of reorganization for Congoleum will likely result in substantial dilution of Congoleum's equity holders, including the Company. Under the terms of the Eighth Plan, on the effective date of that plan, reorganized Congoleum would issue 3.8 million shares of its Class A common stock, which based on the number of shares of Congoleum Class A and Class B common stock outstanding as of March 17, 2006, would represent 31.5% of Congoleum's outstanding common stock and 22.8% of Congoleum's outstanding voting equity interests, and would reduce the Company's equity ownership in Congoleum to 37.7% and voting equity interest in Congoleum to 53.6%, in each case, after giving effect to the stock issuance. On a fully diluted basis, the Company's equity ownership would be reduced to 35.2% with a voting equity interest of 51.0%. 11 In addition, under the Eighth Plan, Congoleum would issue a new convertible security to the Plan Trust on the effective date of the plan. The liquidation preference or principal amount of that convertible security, as applicable, is expected to be approximately $2.7 million and subject to possible future increase. Under the terms of the Eighth Plan, the convertible security would be convertible into 5.7 million shares of reorganized Congoleum Class A common stock (or the equivalent thereof on a fully diluted basis) upon a specified default of the obligation to pay dividends or interest, as applicable, on the convertible security and a failure to cure such default within any cure period, which, when combined with the 3.8 million newly issued shares of reorganized Congoleum Class A common stock to be contributed to the Plan Trust on the effective date of the plan, would result in the Plan Trust owning 51% of the voting common stock on a fully diluted basis. If this further additional issuance were to occur, based on the number of shares of Congoleum Class A and Class B common stock outstanding as of March 17, 2006, the Company's equity ownership and voting equity interest in Congoleum would be reduced to 24.4%, resulting in a loss of voting control of Congoleum by ABI. In addition, any proposed plans of reorganization proposed for Congoleum by other parties in interest may provide for even greater dilution of the Congoleum equity interests than that contemplated by the Eighth Plan. There can be no assurance as to how the equity interests in Congoleum, including ABI's Congoleum equity interests, will be treated under any plan of reorganization for Congoleum that may be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court and consummated. A substantial portion of the Company's debt must be amended or refinanced and the Company's ability to obtain additional financing may be limited. The credit agreement governing the Company's credit facility with Bank of America ("BofA") includes a covenant that takes effect for periods after June 30, 2006 that the Company does not anticipate it will meet, and the Company also does not anticipate it will meet certain covenants under the note agreement governing its outstanding $20 million aggregate principal amount notes that take effect September 30, 2006. In addition, pursuant to the terms of those agreements, a default by the Company under one of those agreements triggers a cross-default under the other agreement. If such a default occurs, the lenders under those agreements could respectively require the Company to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective debt agreements. If a default occurs and the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from the lenders under those agreements and the Company is required to repay all amounts outstanding under those agreements, the Company would need to obtain funding from another source. Otherwise, the Company would likely be unable to repay those outstanding amounts, in which case, the administrative agent over the collateral securing the amounts outstanding under those agreements might exercise the lenders' rights over that collateral. Any default by the Company under those agreements that results in the Company being required to immediately repay outstanding amounts under its debt agreements, and for which suitable replacement financing is not timely obtained, would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The credit facility expires on September 30, 2006. Although the Company expects that its credit facility will be extended or replaced by that date, and that it will obtain a modification or waiver of covenants as needed prior to such extension or replacement, as well as a modification of the covenants under the note agreement governing its outstanding $20 million aggregate principal amount notes, there can be no assurances in this regard. If the Company has outstanding borrowings under its existing credit facility at that date and the term of the credit facility has not been extended beyond that date, such failure would result in a breach of the note agreement governing its outstanding $20 million aggregate principal amount notes, which for the reasons discussed in the preceding paragraph, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. 12 Under the terms of the Company's debt agreements, the Company's ability to obtain additional debt financing is limited. Moreover, since the Company and most of its domestic subsidiaries have already granted security interests in most of their assets, the Company's ability to obtain any additional debt financing may be limited. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum may incur substantial liability for environmental claims and compliance matters. Due to the nature of the Company's and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum's businesses and certain of the substances which are or have been used, produced or discharged by them, the Company's and Congoleum's operations and facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign legal and regulatory provisions relating to the environment, including those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances at Company and Congoleum facilities and off-site disposal locations. The Company and Congoleum have historically expended substantial amounts for compliance with existing environmental laws or regulations, including environmental remediation costs at both third-party sites and Company and Congoleum-owned sites. The Company and Congoleum will continue to be required to expend amounts in the future because of the nature of their prior activities at their facilities, in order to comply with existing environmental laws, and those amounts may be substantial. Although the Company and Congoleum believe that those amounts should not have a material adverse effect on their respective financial positions, there is no certainty that these amounts will not have a material adverse effect on their respective financial positions because, as a result of environmental requirements becoming increasingly strict, neither the Company nor Congoleum is able to determine the ultimate cost of compliance with environmental laws and enforcement policies. Moreover, in addition to potentially having to pay substantial amounts for compliance, future environmental laws or regulations may require or cause the Company or Congoleum to modify or curtail their operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum, may incur substantial liability for other product and general liability claims. In the ordinary course of their businesses, the Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum become involved in lawsuits, administrative proceedings, product liability claims and other matters. In some of these proceedings, plaintiffs may seek to recover large and sometimes unspecified amounts and the matters may remain unresolved for several years. These matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition if the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, is unable to successfully defend against or settle these matters, and its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against it or settlements relating to these matters, or the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, is unable to collect insurance proceeds relating to these matters. 13 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are dependent upon a continuous supply of raw materials from third party suppliers and would be harmed if there were a significant, prolonged disruption in supply or increase in its raw material costs. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum generally design and engineer their own products. Most of the raw materials required by the Company for its manufacturing operations are available from multiple sources; however, the Company does purchase some of its raw materials from a single source or supplier. Any significant delay in or disruption of the supply of raw materials could substantially increase the Company's cost of materials, require product reformulation or require qualification of new suppliers, any one or more of which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company's majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum, does not have readily available alternative sources of supply for specific designs of transfer print paper, which are produced utilizing print cylinders engraved to Congoleum's specifications. Although Congoleum does not anticipate any loss of this source of supply, replacement could take a considerable period of time and interrupt production of certain products, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and Congoleum have occasionally experienced significant price increases for some of its raw materials. In particular, industry supply conditions for specialty resins used in flooring have been very tight, despite significant price increases, due to several factors, including an explosion at a large resin plant in 2004 that destroyed the plant, the decision by another major supplier to exit the business, and the effect of hurricanes in 2005. Although the Company has been able to obtain sufficient supplies of specialty resin and other raw materials, there can be no assurances that it may not experience difficulty in the future, particularly if global supply conditions deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on profit margins. Raw material prices in 2005 increased significantly and may remain high in 2006 and until additional capacity becomes available. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum operate in highly competitive markets and some of their competitors have greater resources, and in order to be successful, the Company and Congoleum must keep pace with and anticipate changing customer preferences. The market for the Company's and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum's products and services is highly competitive. Some of their respective competitors have greater financial and other resources and access to capital. Furthermore, to the extent any of the Company's or Congoleum's competitors make a filing under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code and emerge from bankruptcy as continuing operating companies that have shed much of their pre-filing liabilities, those competitors could have a cost competitive advantage over Congoleum. In addition, in order to maintain their competitive positions, the Company and Congoleum may need to make substantial investments in their businesses, including, as applicable, product development, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for their products and in the loss of market share for their products. Moreover, due to the competitive nature of their industries, they may be commercially restricted from raising or even maintaining the sales prices of their products, which could result in the incurrence of significant operating losses if their expenses were to increase or otherwise represent an increased percentage of sales. 14 The markets in which the Company and Congoleum compete are characterized by frequent new product introductions and changing customer preferences. There can be no assurance that the Company's and Congoleum's existing products and services will be properly positioned in the market or that the Company and Congoleum will be able to introduce new or enhanced products or services into their respective markets on a timely basis, or at all, or that those new or enhanced products or services will receive customer acceptance. The Company's and Congoleum's failure to introduce new or enhanced products or services on a timely basis, keep pace with industry or market changes or effectively manage the transitions to new products, technologies or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are subject to general economic conditions and conditions specific to their respective industries. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are subject to the effects of general economic conditions. A sustained general economic slowdown could have serious negative consequences for the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, their businesses are affected by the economic factors that affect their respective industries. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum could realize shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from unexpected disruptions of operations at any of the Company's or Congoleum's facilities. The Company's and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum's businesses depend upon their ability to timely manufacture and deliver products that meet the needs of their customers and the end users of their products. If the Company or Congoleum were to realize an unexpected, significant and prolonged disruption of its operations at any of its facilities, including disruptions in its manufacturing operations, it could result in shipment delays of its products, depletion of its inventory as a result of reduced production and increased production costs as a result of taking actions in an attempt to cure the disruption or carry on its business while the disruption remains. Any resulting delay, depletion or increased production cost could result in increased costs, lower revenues and damaged customer and product end user relations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum offer limited warranties on their products which could result in the Company or Congoleum incurring significant costs as a result of warranty claims. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum offer a limited warranty on many of their products against manufacturing defects. In addition, as a part of its efforts to differentiate mid- and high-end products through color, design and other attributes, Congoleum offers enhanced warranties with respect to wear, moisture discoloration and other performance characteristics which generally increase with the price of such products. If the Company or Congoleum were to incur a significant number of warranty claims, the resulting warranty costs could be substantial. 15 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum rely on a small number of customers and distributors for a significant portion of their sales or to sell their products. The Company's tape division principally sells its products through distributors. Sales to five unaffiliated customers accounted for approximately 23% of the Company's Tape Division's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 21% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004. The loss of the largest unaffiliated customer and/or two or more of the other three unaffiliated customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company's majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum principally sells its products through distributors. Although Congoleum has more than one distributor in some of its distribution territories and actively manages its credit exposure to its distributors, the loss of a major distributor could have a materially adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations, or financial condition. Congoleum derives a significant percentage of its sales from two of its distributors. These two distributors accounted for approximately 67% of Congoleum's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 70% of Congoleum's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004. The Company's subsidiary K&M Associates L.P. ("K&M") sells its products through its own direct sales force and, indirectly, through a wholly owned subsidiary and through third-party sales representatives. Three of K&M's customers accounted for approximately 58% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 59% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004. The loss of the largest of these customers would have a material adverse effect on K&M's business, results of operations and financial condition and would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum depend on key executives to run their businesses, and the loss of any of these executives would likely harm the Company's business. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum depend on key executives to run their businesses. In particular, three of the persons that serve as key executives at the Company also serve as key executives at Congoleum. The Company's future success will depend largely upon the continued service of these key executives, all of whom have no employment contract with the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, and may terminate their employment at any time without notice. Although certain key executives of the Company and Congoleum are, directly or indirectly, large shareholders of the Company or Congoleum, and thus are less likely to terminate their employment, the loss of any key executive, or the failure by the key executive to perform in his current position, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 16 