Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s independent registered public accountant has included a going concern paragraph in its opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The Company’s independent registered public accountant has issued an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements that states that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern and further states that the Company’s need to refinance its credit facility raises substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s existing principal credit facility expires on September 30, 2009. As noted elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company is negotiating with its current lenders to obtain an amendment or waiver to address certain financial covenants under the Company’s existing principal credit agreement which the Company expects it would not comply with for the period ended March 31, 2009 and subsequent periods and is negotiating to obtain alternative financing to replace its existing credit agreement, including the term loan and credit facility included as part of its credit agreement. If the Company is unable to obtain such an amendment or waiver or to obtain alternative financing on satisfactory terms, the Company may not be able to continue as a going concern. The Company will have to amend its existing principal credit agreement, or obtain a waiver from its lenders, to cure defaults under that agreement, or obtain sufficient alternative financing. The Company has had to amend its principal credit agreement several times in the past in order to avoid being in default of that agreement as a result of failing to satisfy certain financial covenants contained in that agreement. The Company currently expects that it would fail to comply with certain financial covenants under the credit agreement for the period ended March 31, 2009 and subsequent periods. As a result, the Company is currently negotiating with its lenders to amend the credit agreement to address, or obtain a waiver for, any such breaches. If an event of default were to occur, the lenders could cease to make borrowings available under the credit facility and require the Company to repay all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement. If the Company were unable to repay those amounts due, the lenders could have their rights over the collateral (most of the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ (excluding Congoleum) assets, as applicable) exercised, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Although the Company currently anticipates that it will be able to obtain a waiver or enter an amendment to address these matters, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in this regard. Further, any waiver or amendment the Company may obtain is expected to be limited in scope and duration such that the Company would likely need to obtain further amendments or waivers in the future or obtain alternative financing. 10 The Company relies on its revolving credit facility to fund its business, operations and working capital needs. That revolving credit facility expires on September 30, 2009 and the Company may not be able to renew or replace that facility on satisfactory terms. The Company relies on borrowings under its $30 million revolving credit facility which is governed by its principal credit agreement to fund its business and operations. If the Company is not able to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations as a result of the current recession in the United States or otherwise, it may have greater reliance on the availability of borrowings under its credit facility. The Company's credit facility is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2009. As noted in the risk factor above “The Company will have to amend its existing principal credit agreement, or obtain a waiver from its lenders, to cure defaults under that agreement, or obtain sufficient alternative financing”, the Company needs to obtain an amendment to the credit agreement, or a waiver from its lenders, to address financial covenants under that agreement which the Company expects it would not comply with for the period ended March 31, 2009 and subsequent periods. In addition, the Company will need to extend, refinance or replace the credit facility under the credit agreement by the expiration date or any earlier time required by any waiver or amendment it may enter into to address the expected covenant breaches. The Company is currently negotiating for alternative financing to replace its credit agreement. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to obtain alternative financing on satisfactory terms. The global credit markets have recently been experiencing substantial disruption, and as a result, credit has become more expensive and difficult to obtain. In addition, creditors have generally been imposing more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit. If these conditions continue to exist, the Company may be unable to obtain adequate alternative financing and any alternative financing the Company may obtain may be significantly more expensive and restrictive than the terms under the existing credit agreement. If the terms of any alternative financing that the Company may obtain were significantly more expensive or restrictive or failed to provide the Company with sufficient funds for operations or otherwise, the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition would be materially adversely affected. In addition, if a lender under the existing or any future credit facility the Company may obtain fails to fund a request by the Company to borrow money under that credit facility, the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, similar to the terms of the Company’s existing principal credit agreement, any alternative financing the Company may obtain is expected to limit the Company's ability to obtain additional debt financing. Moreover, since the Company and most of its subsidiaries are expected to grant security interests in most of their assets as collateral for borrowings under any alternative financing the Company may obtain, the Company's ability to obtain any additional debt financing beyond that alternative financing will be limited. 11 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum have significant asbestos liability and funding exposure, and the Company's and Congoleum's strategies for resolving this exposure may not be successful. Any plan of reorganization for Congoleum is expected to result in elimination of the interests of Congoleum's equity holders, including the Company. As more fully set forth in Notes 1, 8 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company and Congoleum have significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos personal injury claims. On December 31, 2003, Congoleum filed a voluntary petition with the Bankruptcy Court seeking relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code as a means to resolve claims asserted against it related to the use of asbestos in its products decades ago. An amended joint plan of reorganization for Congoleum proposed by the ACC, the Bondholders’ Committee and Congoleum was filed in the Bankruptcy Court, which plan is referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as the "Amended Joint Plan." While Congoleum believed that the Amended Joint Plan had sufficient creditor support to be confirmed, the Bankruptcy Court recently issued an opinion denying confirmation of the Amended Joint Plan and ordering Congoleum’s bankruptcy case be dismissed (which is referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as the "Order of Dismissal"). That order is being appealed with the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey and the Bankruptcy Court has granted a stay of its Order of Dismissal pending a final non-appealable decision affirming the Order of Dismissal. There can be no assurance that the appeal of the Order of Dismissal will be granted by the District Court or any other court which may be appealed to or that the Bankruptcy Court will not subsequently vacate its grant of a stay of its Order of Dismissal. If the appeal were denied, Congoleum’s bankruptcy case could be dismissed, resulting in Congoleum no longer benefiting from the protection from creditor claims currently afforded to it by the chapter 11 case and the Bankruptcy Code. Further, as indicated in the Order of Dismissal, Congoleum’s ability to refile another bankruptcy petition may be limited, which could result in Congoleum having to attempt to conduct its business and operations outside of the protections of the Bankruptcy Code, including attempting to defend against, satisfy or defray its creditor claims, such as its substantial asbestos liabilities and its Senior Notes, and continued litigation against its insurers to attempt to obtain insurance coverage for Congoleum’s asbestos liabilities. It is unclear what effect the Order of Dismissal, the stay of the Bankruptcy Court’s Order of Dismissal pending a final non-appealable decision affirming the Order of Dismissal and the continued litigation may have on Congoleum’s business and operations, including with regard to its relationships with its vendors, suppliers, customers, lenders and other constituencies. Under the terms of the Amended Joint Plan, ABI's ownership interest in Congoleum would be eliminated. ABI expects that its ownership interest in Congoleum would be eliminated under any alternate plan or outcome in Congoleum’s Chapter 11 case. ABI has certain intercompany claims against and arrangements with Congoleum. The Amended Joint Plan would govern an intercompany settlement and ongoing intercompany arrangements among ABI and its subsidiaries and reorganized Congoleum, which would be effective when the Amended Joint Plan took effect and would have a term of two years. Those intercompany arrangements include the provision of management services by ABI to reorganized Congoleum and other business relationships substantially consistent with their traditional relationships. The Amended Joint Plan provides that the final terms of the intercompany arrangements among ABI 12 and its subsidiaries and reorganized Congoleum would be memorialized in a new agreement to be entered into by reorganized Congoleum and American Biltrite in form and substance mutually agreeable to the Bondholders’ Committee, the official asbestos claimants' committee and ABI. The existing arrangements currently in effect among ABI and its non-debtor subsidiaries and Congoleum expire on June 30, 2009, unless renewed. In addition, under the terms of the Amended Joint Plan, ABI’s rights and claims to indemnification from Congoleum under the existing joint venture agreement between ABI and Congoleum that relate to ABI's contribution to Congoleum in 1993 of ABI's tile division, and the joint venture agreement itself, would have been deemed rejected and disallowed upon the effective date of the Amended Joint Plan, and therefore eliminated. The Amended Joint Plan's rejection and disallowance of the joint venture agreement and ABI’s claims thereunder included any unfunded indemnification claims ABI may have had prepetition and during the pendency of Congoleum's Chapter 11 case as well as any such claims ABI might otherwise have been entitled to assert after the Amended Joint Plan became effective. If the appeal of the Order of Dismissal were denied, it is uncertain what would become of ABI’s and its nondebtor subsidiaries’ claims against and relationships with Congoleum, although ABI expects that those claims and relationships could be adversely affected and could even be rendered worthless. In addition, there can be no assurance that ABI, Congoleum and other applicable Congoleum constituencies will be able to reach agreement on the terms of any management services proposed to be provided by ABI to reorganized Congoleum or any other proposed business relationships among ABI and its affiliates and reorganized Congoleum. Any plan of reorganization for Congoleum that may be confirmed may have terms that differ significantly from the terms contemplated by the Amended Joint Plan, including with respect to any management services that may be provided by ABI to reorganized Congoleum and ABI's claims and interests and other business relationships with reorganized Congoleum. In addition, in view of ABI’s relationships with Congoleum, ABI will be affected by Congoleum's negotiations regarding, and its pursuit of, any plan of reorganization, and there can be no assurance as to what that impact, positive or negative, might be. In any event, the failure of Congoleum to obtain confirmation and consummation of a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization would have a material adverse effect on Congoleum's business, results of operations or financial condition and could have a material adverse effect on ABI’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Any plan of reorganization for Congoleum, if proposed, will be subject to numerous conditions, approvals and other requirements, including the receipt of necessary creditor, claimant and court approvals. Certain insurers have contested the reorganization plans previously filed by Congoleum in the Bankruptcy Court and Congoleum is involved in ongoing litigation against its insurers in a state court coverage action. If the insurers are successful in contesting the appeal of the Order of Dismissal, any future reorganization plan or in denying coverage under the insurance policies, such reorganization plan may not become effective. Further, even if the insurers are not successful in contesting the appeal of the Order of Dismissal, any future plan that may be proposed or in denying coverage under the insurance policies, Congoleum may be required to incur significant time and expense litigating against the insurers, which could further delay any confirmation or effectiveness of any reorganization plan. In order to obtain confirmation of any reorganization plan, Congoleum will need sufficient funds to pay for the 13 continued litigation with these insurers as well as the bankruptcy proceedings generally. In addition, for a plan of reorganization to be confirmed, Congoleum will need to obtain and demonstrate the sufficiency of exit financing. Congoleum cannot presently determine the terms of such financing, nor can there be any assurances of its success obtaining it, particularly in light of the recent substantial disruption in the global credit markets which has resulted in credit becoming more expensive and difficult to obtain. Moreover, the failure of any lender under any credit facility Congoleum may have or obtain to fund requests for borrowings by Congoleum could negatively impact Congoleum's business, results of operations or financial condition and its chances of obtaining confirmation of any plan of reorganization. The Company has its own direct asbestos liability as well. The Company's strategy remains to vigorously defend against and strategically settle its asbestos claims on a case-by-case basis. To date, the Company's insurers have funded substantially all of the Company's liabilities and expenses related to its asbestos liability under the Company's applicable insurance policies. The Company expects its insurance carriers will continue to defend and indemnify it for a substantial amount of its asbestos liabilities for the foreseeable future pursuant to an umbrella/first-layer excess policies arrangement between the Company and the applicable insurance carriers. It is possible that asbestos claims may be asserted against the Company alleging exposure allocable solely to years in which the Company’s insurance policies excluded coverage for asbestos, that the policies providing coverage under the umbrella/first-layer excess policies arrangement will exhaust, or that the carriers responsible for such policies may at some future date be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under the policies or that arrangement. If ABI were to incur significant additional asbestos liabilities for which it did not have insurance coverage or was not able to receive recoveries under its insurance policies due to the carriers which underwrote those policies being insolvent or otherwise, ABI may have to fund such liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on ABI's business, results of operations or financial condition. As a result of Congoleum's significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos claims, there can be no assurance that if Congoleum were to incur any unforecasted or unexpected liability or disruption to its business or operations it would be able to withstand that liability or disruption and continue as an operating company. Any significant increase of the Company's asbestos liability and funding exposure would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operations and financial condition and possibly its ability to continue as a going concern. In the past, federal legislation has been proposed which would establish a national trust to provide compensation to victims of asbestos-related injuries and channel all current and future asbestos-related personal injury claims to that trust. In light of the numerous uncertainties surrounding this and other possible asbestos legislation in the United States, ABI does not know what effects any such legislation, if adopted, may have upon its or Congoleum's businesses, results of operations or financial conditions, or upon any plan of reorganization for Congoleum. For further information regarding the Company's and Congoleum's asbestos liability, insurance coverage and strategies to resolve that asbestos liability, please see Notes 1, 8 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," which are included in Part II, Item 8 and Part II, Item 9, respectively, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 14 Elimination of the Company’s equity interests in Congoleum could have a material adverse impact on the business relationships between ABI and Congoleum and ABI’s business, operations and financial condition. ABI expects that its ownership interest in Congoleum will be eliminated under any plan or outcome in Congoleum’s Chapter 11 case. There can be no assurances as to the ownership structure under the terms of any new reorganization plan for Congoleum that may be proposed or how such structure and any other change in ownership and control may affect reorganized Congoleum’s business, operations and financial condition, or its future relationships with ABI. ABI provides management services to Congoleum, sells and purchases products to and from Congoleum, and receives royalties from Congoleum. Agreements for these current intercompany arrangements expire on June 30, 2009, or upon the effectiveness of a plan of reorganization for Congoleum, whichever comes first. It is not known whether ABI, Congoleum and the other parties in interest will agree to extend the term of these arrangements, and if so, for how long any extension would last or what the terms of any such extension and related intercompany arrangements would be. The terms of the Amended Joint Plan provided for certain intercompany arrangements continuing for a two year period ending on the second anniversary of the effective date of the Amended Joint Plan pursuant to a new agreement to be entered into by ABI and reorganized Congoleum on the effective date of the Amended Joint Plan. The Amended Joint Plan provided that the new agreement would be in form and substance mutually agreeable to the Bondholders' Committee, the ACC and ABI. Pursuant to that new agreement, ABI's current chief executive officer would serve as a director and the chief executive officer of reorganized Congoleum and ABI would have to make available to reorganized Congoleum substantially all of his time during normal working hours on an annual basis, ABI would have to make available to reorganized Congoleum approximately 25% of the time of ABI's current president and chief operating officer during normal working hours and on an annual basis, and ABI's current chief financial officer would serve as the chief financial officer of reorganized Congoleum and ABI would have to make available to reorganized Congoleum approximately 50% of his time during normal working hours and on an annual basis. Expiration or termination of such intercompany arrangements, failure to reach definitive agreement on final terms of future arrangements between ABI and reorganized Congoleum, or failure to consummate such arrangements in connection with the effectiveness of a plan of reorganization for Congoleum or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on the business relationships between ABI and Congoleum, and ABI’s business, operations and financial condition. 15 The Company and Congoleum sell their products on credit and their customers may fail to pay, or they may extend the payment period, for products sold to them on credit. The Company and Congoleum sell their products on credit. Customers purchasing goods on credit from the Company or Congoleum may default on their obligations to pay, or they may extend the payment period, for products sold to them on credit, which may result in an increased investment in accounts receivable by the Company or Congoleum. In light of the current recession in the United States, the risk that the Company and Congoleum may realize an increased investment in accounts receivable may be greater. To the extent the Company and Congoleum are unable to collect receivables owed to them in a timely fashion, increased demands may be placed on their respective working capital, which could have a material adverse effect on their respective businesses, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum may incur substantial liability for environmental claims and compliance matters. Due to the nature of the Company's and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum's businesses and certain of the substances which are or have been used, produced or discharged by them, the Company's and Congoleum's operations and facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign legal and regulatory provisions relating to the environment, including those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances at Company and Congoleum facilities and off-site disposal locations. The Company and Congoleum have historically expended substantial amounts for compliance with existing environmental laws or regulations, including environmental remediation costs at both third-party sites and Company and Congoleum-owned sites. The Company and Congoleum will continue to be required to expend amounts in the future because of the nature of their prior activities at their facilities, in order to comply with existing environmental laws, and those amounts may be substantial. Although the Company and Congoleum believe that those amounts should not have a material adverse effect on their respective financial positions, there is no certainty that these amounts will not have a material adverse effect on their respective financial positions because, as a result of environmental requirements becoming increasingly strict, neither the Company nor Congoleum is able to determine the ultimate cost of compliance with environmental laws and enforcement policies. Moreover, in addition to potentially having to pay substantial amounts for compliance, future environmental laws or regulations may require or cause the Company or Congoleum to modify or curtail their operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. 16 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum, may incur substantial liability for other product and general liability claims. In the ordinary course of their businesses, the Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum become involved in lawsuits, administrative proceedings, product liability claims and other matters. In some of these proceedings, plaintiffs may seek to recover large and sometimes unspecified amounts and the matters may remain unresolved for several years. These matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition if the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, is unable to successfully defend against or settle these matters, and its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against it or settlements relating to these matters, or the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, is unable to collect insurance proceeds relating to these matters. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are dependent upon a continuous supply of raw materials from third party suppliers and would be harmed if there were a significant, prolonged disruption in supply or increase in its raw material costs. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum generally design and engineer their own products. Most of the raw materials required by the Company for its manufacturing operations are available from multiple sources; however, the Company does purchase some of its raw materials from a single source or supplier. Any significant delay in or disruption of the supply of raw materials could substantially increase the Company's cost of materials, require product reformulation or require qualification of new suppliers, any one or more of which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company's majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum does not have readily available alternative sources of supply for specific designs of transfer print paper, which are produced utilizing print cylinders engraved to Congoleum's specifications. Although Congoleum does not anticipate any loss of this source of supply, replacement could take a considerable period of time and interrupt production of certain products, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and Congoleum have occasionally experienced significant price increases for some of its raw materials. Although the Company has been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials, there can be no assurances that it may not experience difficulty in the future, particularly if global supply conditions deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on profit margins. In addition, raw material and energy costs increased sharply over the past year, particularly during the first half of 2008, which has negatively impacted the Company's and Congoleum's businesses and operating results. Although raw material and energy costs have recently declined, it is not known whether raw material and energy prices will remain lower or will revert to increasing price levels. In light of the current and forecasted economic conditions in the United States and the industries in which the Company and Congoleum conduct business, the Company and Congoleum may be unable to pass increased raw material and energy costs on to their respective customers. 17 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum operate in highly competitive markets and some of their competitors have greater resources, and in order to be successful, the Company and Congoleum must keep pace with and anticipate changing customer preferences. The market for the Company's and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum's products and services is highly competitive. Some of their respective competitors have greater financial and other resources and access to capital. Furthermore, to the extent any of the Company's or Congoleum's competitors make a filing under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and emerge from bankruptcy as continuing operating companies that have shed much of their pre-filing liabilities, those competitors could have a cost competitive advantage over Congoleum. In addition, in order to maintain their competitive positions, the Company and Congoleum may need to make substantial investments in their businesses, including, as applicable, product development, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for their products and in the loss of market share for their products. Moreover, due to the competitive nature of their industries, they may be commercially restricted from raising or even maintaining the sales prices of their products, which could result in the incurrence of significant operating losses if their expenses were to increase or otherwise represent an increased percentage of sales. The markets in which the Company and Congoleum compete are characterized by frequent new product introductions and changing customer preferences. There can be no assurance that the Company's and Congoleum's existing products and services will be properly positioned in the market or that the Company and Congoleum will be able to introduce new or enhanced products or services into their respective markets on a timely basis, or at all, or that those new or enhanced products or services will receive customer acceptance. The Company's and Congoleum's failure to introduce new or enhanced products or services on a timely basis, keep pace with industry or market changes or effectively manage the transitions to new products, technologies or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum are subject to general economic conditions and conditions specific to their respective industries. Global and financial markets have recently been experiencing substantial disruption. Economic conditions in the United States have been challenging, including in the industries in which the Company and Congoleum conduct business. The downturn in the housing industry has resulted in reduced demand for the Company's and Congoleum's products. The slowdown in manufacturing, including in the automotive and industrial sectors, has resulted in reduced demand for the Tape division's products. In addition, the decline in consumer and retailer, especially mid-tier retailer, spending has resulted in reduced demand for K&M's products. There is presently an economic recession in the United States, affecting the industries in which the Company and Congoleum conduct business. The Company expects the current and forecasted economic conditions to continue to negatively impact the Company's and Congoleum's businesses and operations and that the extent of that impact will depend on the duration and depth of the economic recession. 18 In addition, raw material and energy costs increased sharply over the past year, particularly during the first half of 2008, which has negatively impacted the Company's and Congoleum's businesses and operating results. Although raw material and energy costs have recently declined, it is not known whether raw material and energy prices will remain lower or will revert to increasing price levels. In light of the current and forecasted economic conditions in the United States and the industries in which the Company and Congoleum conduct business, the Company and Congoleum may be unable to pass increased raw material and energy costs on to their respective customers. Although the Company and Congoleum intend to implement reductions in their expenses, there can be no assurance that they will be able to reduce their respective expenses, that any reductions they may implement will have any meaningful positive impact on their businesses, results of operations or financial condition, or that they will be able to sustain any expense reductions that they may implement. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum could realize shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from unexpected disruptions of operations at any of the Company's or Congoleum's facilities. The Company's and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum's businesses depend upon their ability to timely manufacture and deliver products that meet the needs of their customers and the end users of their products. If the Company or Congoleum were to realize an unexpected, significant and prolonged disruption of its operations at any of its facilities, including disruptions in its manufacturing operations, it could result in shipment delays of its products, depletion of its inventory as a result of reduced production and increased production costs as a result of taking actions in an attempt to cure the disruption or carry on its business while the disruption remains. Any resulting delay, depletion or increased production cost could result in increased costs, lower revenues and damaged customer and product end user relations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum offer limited warranties on their products which could result in the Company or Congoleum incurring significant costs as a result of warranty claims. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum offer a limited warranty on many of their products against manufacturing defects. In addition, as a part of its efforts to differentiate mid- and high-end products through color, design and other attributes, Congoleum offers enhanced warranties with respect to wear, moisture discoloration and other performance characteristics which generally increase with the price of such products. If the Company or Congoleum were to incur a significant number of warranty claims, the resulting warranty costs could be substantial. 19 The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum rely on a small number of customers and distributors for a significant portion of their sales or to sell their products. The Company's Tape Division principally sells its products through distributors. Sales to five unaffiliated customers accounted for approximately 20% of the Company's Tape Division's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. The loss of the largest unaffiliated customer and/or two or more of the other four unaffiliated customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company's Canadian Division sells its products through distributors and a direct sales force. Sales to five unaffiliated customers accounted for approximately 22% of the Canadian Division's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. The loss of the largest unaffiliated customer and/or two or more of the other four unaffiliated customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company's majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum principally sells its products through distributors. Although Congoleum has more than one distributor in some of its distribution territories and actively manages its credit exposure to its distributors, the loss of a major distributor could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations, or financial condition. Congoleum derives a significant percentage of its sales from two of its distributors. These two distributors accounted for approximately 63% of Congoleum's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company's subsidiary K&M sells its products through its own direct sales force and, indirectly, through a wholly owned subsidiary and through third-party sales representatives. Three of K&M's customers accounted for approximately 54% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. The loss of the largest of these customers would have a material adverse effect on K&M’s business, results of operations and financial condition and would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum depend on key executives to run their businesses, and the loss of any of these executives would likely harm the Company's business. The Company and its majority-owned subsidiary Congoleum depend on key executives to run their businesses. In particular, three of the persons that serve as key executives at the Company also serve as key executives at Congoleum. The Company's future success will depend largely upon the continued service of these key executives, all of whom have no employment contract with the Company or Congoleum, as applicable, and may terminate their employment at any time without notice. Although certain key executives of the Company and Congoleum are, directly or indirectly, large shareholders of the Company or Congoleum, and thus are less likely to terminate their employment, the loss of any key executive, or the failure by the key executive to perform in his current position, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 20 ITEM 