Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our financial results and condition to differ materially from expected results. Changes in business and economic conditions, in particular those of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands (Guam, nearby islands, and American Samoa) could lead to lower revenue, lower asset quality, and lower earnings. Our business and earnings are closely tied to general business and economic conditions, particularly the economies of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. These economies are heavily influenced by tourism, real estate, government, and other service-based industries. Factors that could affect the general economy include geopolitical risks, such as real or threatened acts of war or terrorism, higher energy costs, reduced consumer or corporate spending, natural disasters or adverse weather, public health issues, and the normal cyclical nature of the economy. A sustained economic downturn could adversely affect the quality of our assets, credit losses, and the demand for our products and services, which could lead to lower revenue and lower earnings. We continually monitor changes in the economy, including level of visitor arrivals, changes in housing prices, and unemployment rates. We also 6 monitor the value of collateral, such as real estate, that secures loans we have made. A decline in the value of collateral could also reduce a customer's borrowing power. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our results of operations. Our earnings are highly dependent on the spread between the interest earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to market interest rates could impact the level of loans, leases, investment securities, deposits, and borrowings, and the credit profile of existing loans and leases. Interest rates are affected by many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact our ability to attract deposits, originate loans and leases, and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Credit losses may increase due to weaker economic conditions. The risk of nonpayment of loans and leases is inherent in all lending activities. We maintain a reserve for credit losses to absorb estimated probable credit losses inherent in the loan, lease, and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan and lease portfolio, in determining the level of the reserve for credit losses. Many of these assumptions are based on economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect or economic conditions change, the reserve for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Many of our loans are secured by real estate in Hawaii and Guam. If these locations experience an economic downturn that impacts real estate values and customers' ability to repay, loan and lease losses could exceed the estimates that are currently included in the reserve for credit losses. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental authorities. The regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, customers and the banking system as a whole and not for the protection of shareholders. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to penalties and damage to our reputation. Furthermore, the regulatory environment is constantly undergoing change and the impact of changes to laws and regulations, the interpretation of such laws or regulations, or other actions by regulatory agencies could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive. Competition may adversely affect our business. Our future depends on our ability to compete effectively. We compete for deposits, loans, leases, and other financial services with a variety of competitors, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies all of which may be based in or out of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. Failures to effectively compete, innovate, and make effective use of available channels to deliver our products and services could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our liquidity is dependent on dividends from the Bank. The Parent is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. The Parent receives substantially all of its cash in the form of dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Parent's common stock. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Parent. If the amount of dividends paid by the Bank is further limited, the Parent's ability to meet its obligations, pay dividends to shareholders, or repurchase stock, may be further limited. 7 An interruption or breach in security of our information systems may result in a loss of customers. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide key components of our infrastructure, including loan, deposit and general ledger processing, internet connections, and network access. Any disruption in service of these key components could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our operations. Furthermore, security breaches of our information systems or data, whether managed by us or by third parties, could harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in a variety of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, ethical issues, or inadequate protection of customer information. We expend significant resources to comply with regulatory requirements. Failure to comply could result in reputational harm or significant legal or remedial costs. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers. Changes in income tax laws or interpretations or in accounting standards could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in income tax laws could be enacted or interpretations of existing income tax laws could change causing an adverse effect to our financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets, liabilities, and financial results. Periodically, new accounting standards are imposed or existing standards are revised, changing the methods for preparing our financial statements. Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key employees and skilled personnel to operate our business effectively. There are a limited number of qualified personnel in the markets we serve, so our success depends in part on the continued services of many of our current management and other key employees. Hawaii's low unemployment rate contributes to the difficulty of attracting and retaining qualified employees at all levels. Failure to retain our key employees and maintain adequate staffing of qualified personnel, could adversely impact our operations and our ability to compete. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 