Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are some of the important inherent risk factors that could affect our business and operations, although they are not the only risks that may have a material adverse affect on the Company. Changes in business and economic conditions, in particular those of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands (Guam, nearby islands, and American Samoa), could lead to lower revenue, lower asset quality, and lower earnings. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, our business and earnings are closely tied to the economies of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. These local economies rely on tourism, real estate, government, and other service-based industries. Declines in tourism, real or threatened acts of war or terrorism, increases in energy costs, the availability of affordable air transportation, natural disasters and adverse weather, public health issues, and State of Hawaii and County budget issues impact consumer and corporate spending. As a result, such events may contribute to the deterioration in general economic conditions in our markets which could adversely impact us and our customers' operations. Although economic conditions in Hawaii have not deteriorated to the same extent as in other geographic areas, such conditions could decline further. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Hawaii's economy continued to show signs of recovery during 2011 due to increasing visitor arrivals and spending. However, deterioration of economic conditions or the slow pace of economic recovery could adversely affect the quality of our assets, credit losses, and the demand for our products and services, which could lead to lower revenues and lower earnings. The level of visitor arrivals and spending, housing prices, and unemployment rates are some of the metrics that we continually monitor. We also monitor the value of collateral, such as real estate, that secures the loans we have made. The borrowing 7 Table of Contents power of our customers could also be impacted by a decline in the value of collateral. Changes in defense spending by the federal government as a result of congressional budget cuts could adversely impact the economy in Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. The U.S. military has a major presence in Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. As a result, the U.S. military is an important aspect of the economies in which we operate. Recent proposals to cut defense and other security spending could have an adverse impact on the economies in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry. The banking industry continues to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market, high levels of unemployment, low loan demand, and low interest margins. Dramatic declines in the national housing market over the past several years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Although economic conditions in Hawaii and the U.S. are showing signs of recovery, a further decline in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers and/or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Continued economic conditions that negatively affect the housing market, the job market and the demand for other goods and services could cause the credit quality of the Company's loan portfolios to deteriorate, which would have a negative impact on the Company's business. Real estate values in Hawaii continued to be somewhat more resilient than many markets on the U.S. Mainland over the past two years. However, there is no assurance that Hawaii real estate values will continue to be more resilient than U.S. Mainland markets. Market turmoil and the tightening of credit has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, a lack of confidence in the financial sector, and increased volatility in the financial markets. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks from the debt crisis in Europe could result in a disruption of the financial markets which may have a detrimental impact on global economic conditions and affect economic conditions in Hawaii. There remains considerable uncertainty as to future developments in the European debt crisis and the impact on financial markets. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels, spending, and credit factors, such that our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our results of operations and capital. Our earnings are highly dependent on the spread between the interest earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to market interest rates could impact the level of loans, leases, investment securities, deposits, and borrowings, and the credit profile of our current borrowers. Interest rates are affected by many factors beyond our control, and fluctuate in response to general economic conditions, currency fluctuations, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans and leases, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Any substantial prolonged change in market interest rates may negatively impact our ability to attract deposits, originate loans and leases, and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Credit losses could increase if economic conditions stagnate or deteriorate. Although there are indications of an economic recovery nationally and in Hawaii, increased credit losses for us could result if economic conditions stagnate or deteriorate. The risk of nonpayment of loans and leases is inherent in all lending activities. We maintain a reserve for credit losses to absorb estimated probable credit losses inherent in the loan, lease, and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan and lease portfolio in 8 Table of Contents determining the level of the reserve for credit losses. Many of these assumptions are based on current economic conditions. Should economic conditions stagnate or deteriorate nationally or in Hawaii, we may experience higher credit losses in future periods. Inability of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, or decreases in real estate collateral values may result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures, and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Legislation and regulatory initiatives affecting the financial services industry, including restrictions and requirements, could detrimentally affect the Company's business. In light of current conditions and the market expectation of a slow economic recovery, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of financial institutions. Laws and regulations, and in particular banking, securities and tax laws, are under intense scrutiny because of the current economic environment. As a result, we continue to monitor regulatory changes and the associated costs of compliance, which could detrimentally affect our business. Much of the Dodd-Frank Act remains to be implemented through rulemaking, creating uncertainty for the Company and the financial services industry in general. Some of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that have adversely impacted the Company include the Durbin Amendment which mandates a limit to debit card interchange fees and the FRB's amendments to Regulation E of the EFTA regarding overdraft fees. In future periods, these provisions may limit the type of products we offer, the methods by which we offer them, and the prices at which they are offered. These provisions may also increase our costs in offering these products in the future. The regulation of most consumer financial products and services will be the responsibility of the newly created CFPB. However, regulation of overall safety and soundness, the CRA, federal housing and flood insurance, as they pertain to consumer financial products and services, will remain with the FRB. The CFPB will have broad rule-making, supervisory and examination authority, as well as expanded data collecting and enforcement powers over depository institutions with more than $10.0 billion in assets. Much of the rules and regulations of the CFPB have not been implemented, and therefore, the scope and impact of the CFPB's actions cannot be determined at this time. This creates significant uncertainty for the Company and the financial services industry in general. These new laws, regulations, and changes may increase our costs of regulatory compliance. They may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our investments, and our ongoing operations, costs, and profitability. The future impact of the many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislative and regulatory initiatives on the Company's business and results of operations will depend upon regulatory interpretation and rulemaking that will be undertaken over the next several months and years. As a result, we are unable to predict the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act or of other future legislation or regulation, including the extent to which it could increase costs or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in the capital, leverage and liquidity requirements for financial institutions could materially affect future requirements of the Company. Under Basel III, financial institutions are required to have more capital and a higher quality of capital. Basel III also imposes a leverage ratio requirement and liquidity standards. Implementation of these new capital and liquidity requirements has created significant uncertainty with respect to the future requirements for financial institutions. These new requirements may result in increases to our capital, liquidity, and disclosure requirements. See the "Regulatory Initiatives Related to Liquidity and Capital" section in MD&A for more information. Consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process could affect our remedies as a creditor. Proposed consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process, including voluntary and/or mandatory programs intended to permit or require lenders to consider loan modifications or other alternatives to foreclosure, could increase our credit losses or increase our expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. For example, in May 2011, a new Hawaii foreclosure law ("Act 48") overhauled rules for nonjudicial, or 9 Table of Contents out-of-court, foreclosures. Previously, nonjudicial foreclosures were how lenders handled the vast majority of foreclosures in Hawaii, as the process was quicker and less expensive than going through court. Act 48 was intended to curb potential lender abuses while providing qualified owner-occupants an option to have a dispute resolution professional assist with foreclosure mitigation in front of a lender's representative before a foreclosure sale can proceed. However, Act 48 has had the unintended effect of lenders forgoing nonjudicial foreclosures entirely and filing all foreclosures in court, creating a backlog that threatens to slow the judicial foreclosure process. Currently there are several foreclosure-related bills being considered by the state legislature, many of which seek to amend Act 48. The manner in which these issues are ultimately resolved could impact our foreclosure procedures, which in turn could affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the recent joint federal-state settlement with several mortgage servicers over foreclosure practice abuses creates additional uncertainty for the Company and the mortgage servicing industry in general as it relates to the implementation of mortgage loan modifications and loss mitigation practices in the future. Competition may adversely affect our business. Our future depends on our ability to compete effectively. We compete for deposits, loans, leases, and other financial services with a variety of competitors, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies all of which may be based in or outside of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. We will continue to experience intense competition as the trend for further consolidation in the financial services industry continues. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. Failure to effectively compete, innovate, and to make effective use of available channels to deliver our products and services could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our liquidity is dependent on dividends from the Bank. The Parent is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. The Parent receives substantially all of its cash in the form of dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay, for example, dividends on the Parent's common stock or to repurchase common stock under our share repurchase program. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Parent. If the amount of dividends paid by the Bank is further limited, the Parent's ability to meet its obligations, pay dividends to shareholders, or repurchase stock, may be further limited. An interruption or breach in security of our information systems may result in financial losses, loss of customers, or damage to our reputation. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide key components of our infrastructure, including loan, deposit and general ledger processing, internet connections, and network access. These types of information and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. As a financial institution, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers' data and financial information, whether through cyber attack, cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, spoofing, phishing, or spyware. Our customers have been, and will continue to be, targeted by parties using fraudulent emails and other communications to misappropriate passwords, credit card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through "trojan horse" programs to our customers' computers. These communications appear to be legitimate messages sent by the Bank, but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the e-mail or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information via e-mail or download a program. Despite our efforts to mitigate these tactics through product improvements and customer education, such attempted frauds remain a serious problem that may cause customer and/or Bank losses, damage to our brand, and increase in our costs. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our information systems and 10 Table of Contents we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A security breach or other significant disruption could: 1) Disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; 2) Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including account numbers and other financial information; 3) Result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, subjecting the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose the Bank to civil litigation and possible financial liability; 4) Require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; or 5) Harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us. The occurrence of any such failures, disruptions or security breaches could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings and liquidity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings, liquidity, and capital from negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in a variety of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, ethical issues, or inadequate protection of customer information. We expend significant resources to comply with regulatory requirements. Failure to comply could result in reputational harm or significant legal or remedial costs. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers, and adversely impact our earnings and liquidity. We are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. We are, from time to time, involved in various legal proceedings arising from our normal business activities. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. The outcome of these cases is uncertain. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Based on information currently available, we believe that the eventual outcome of known actions against us will not be materially in excess of such amounts accrued by us. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of those matters may be material to our statement of income for any particular period. Changes in income tax laws or interpretations or in accounting standards could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in income tax laws could be enacted, or interpretations of existing income tax laws could change, causing an adverse effect to our financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets, liabilities, and financial results. Periodically, new accounting standards are imposed or existing standards are revised, changing the methods for preparing our financial statements. These changes are not within our control and may significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key employees and skilled personnel to operate our business effectively. Our success is dependent on our ability to recruit qualified and skilled personnel to operate our business effectively. Competition for these qualified and skilled people is intense. There are a limited number of qualified personnel in the markets we serve, so our success depends in part on the 11 Table of Contents continued services of many of our current management and other key employees. Failure to retain our key employees and maintain adequate staffing of qualified personnel could adversely impact our operations and our ability to compete. The soundness of other financial institutions, as counterparties, may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, lending, counterparty, or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Such losses could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the capital markets could materially affect the level of assets under management and the demand for our other fee-based services. Changes in the capital markets could affect the volume of income from and demand for our fee-based services. Our investment management revenues depend in large part on the level of assets under management. Market volatility that leads customers to liquidate investments, move investments to other institutions or asset classes, as well as lower asset values can reduce our level of assets under management and thereby decrease our investment management revenues. Our mortgage banking income may experience significant volatility. Our mortgage banking income is highly influenced by the level and direction of mortgage interest rates, real estate activity, and refinancing activity. Interest rates can affect the amount of mortgage banking activity and impact fee income and the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights. Mortgage banking income may also be impacted by changes in our strategy to manage our residential mortgage portfolio. For example, we may occasionally change the proportion of our loan originations that are sold in the secondary market and added to our loan portfolio. Our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (the "FHLB") stock may be subject to impairment charges in future periods if the financial condition of the FHLB further declines. The Bank is a member of the FHLB, and as such, is required to hold FHLB stock as a condition of membership. As of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of our FHLB stock was $61.3 million and consisted of 612,924 shares valued at a par value of $100 per share. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank held 375,608 shares in excess of the minimum number of shares the Bank was required to hold as a condition of membership. Ownership of FHLB stock is restricted and can only be redeemed or sold at their par value and only to the FHLB or to another member institution. In August 2009, the FHLB received a capital classification of "undercapitalized" from their primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the "Finance Agency"). In October 2010, the Finance Agency and the FHLB agreed to the stipulation and issuance of a Consent Order by the Finance Agency that sets forth requirements for capital management, asset composition, and other operational and risk management improvements. The Consent Order required the FHLB to meet certain minimum financial metrics by the end of the Stabilization period and maintain them for each quarter end thereafter. Based on the FHLB's Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2011, with the exception of not meeting the retained earnings requirement as of June 30, 2011, the FHLB met all minimum financial metrics at each quarter end during the Stabilization Period and as of the quarter ended September 30, 2011. However, until the Finance Agency determines that the FHLB has met the requirements of the Consent Order, the FHLB expects that it will remain classified as "undercapitalized." As such, the FHLB remains restricted from redeeming or repurchasing capital stock or paying dividends. See discussion in MD&A and Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements related to the 12 Table of Contents impairment analysis of our FHLB stock as of December 31, 2011. The requirement to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value may adversely affect our financial results. We report certain assets, including available-for-sale investment securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we record these assets at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. The level of interest rates can impact the estimated fair value of investment securities. Disruptions in the capital markets may require us to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to investment securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of our investment securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. Changes to the amount and timing of proposed common stock repurchases The actual amount and timing of future share repurchases, if any, will depend on market and economic conditions, applicable SEC rules, and various other factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 