Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business routinely encounters and addresses risks. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our financial results and condition to differ materially from expected results. Recent and pending legislation in response to market and economic conditions may significantly affect our operations, financial condition, and earnings. Disruptions in the financial system since 2008 have resulted in significantly reduced business activity throughout the global and U.S. economies, which have the potential to significantly affect financial institutions. In response to this financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, several programs have been initiated by the U.S. Treasury, the FRB, and the FDIC to stabilize the financial system. There are uncertainties regarding the impact that these federal programs, and other liquidity, funding and economic stimulus initiatives of the federal government that may be initiated in the future will have on the financial markets or on the U.S. banking and financial services industries and the broader U.S. and global economies. These new laws, regulations, and changes may continue to increase our FDIC insurance premiums and may also increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. They may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our investments, and our ongoing operations, costs, and profitability. Changes in business and economic conditions, in particular those of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands (Guam, nearby islands, and American Samoa) could continue to lead to lower revenue, lower asset quality, and lower earnings. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, our business and earnings are closely tied to general business and economic conditions, particularly the economies of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. These local economies are heavily influenced by tourism, real estate, government, and other service-based industries. Factors that could affect these local economies include declines in tourism, geopolitical risks, such as real or threatened acts of war or terrorism, higher energy costs, the availability of affordable air transportation, reduced consumer or corporate spending, natural disasters or adverse weather, public health issues, and the recent significant deterioration in general economic conditions. A sustained economic downturn, as we are experiencing in Hawaii and the Pacific Islands, could adversely affect the quality of our assets, credit losses, and the demand for our products and services, which could lead to lower revenue and lower earnings. We continually monitor changes in the economy, including levels of visitor arrivals and spending, changes in housing prices, and unemployment rates. We also monitor the value of collateral, such as real estate, that secures loans we have made. A decline in the value of collateral could also reduce a customer's borrowing power. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the U.S. Mainland housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted credit performance of residential mortgage loans and have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by other financial institutions, including government-sponsored enterprises, as well as major commercial and investment banks. Real estate values in Hawaii continued to be somewhat more resilient than many markets on the U.S. Mainland over the past two years. However, there is no assurance that Hawaii real estate values will continue to be more resilient than U.S. Mainland markets. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions, reflecting concern about the stability of financial markets, generally, and the strength of counterparties, specifically. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies for other financial institutions, a lack of confidence in the financial sector, and increased volatility in the financial markets. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our results of operations. Our earnings are highly dependent on the spread between the interest earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to market interest rates could impact the level of loans, leases, investment securities, deposits, and borrowings, and the credit profile of our current borrowers. Interest rates are affected by many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, currency fluctuations, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact our ability to attract deposits, originate loans and leases, and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Credit losses may continue to increase due to weaker economic conditions. The risk of nonpayment of loans and leases is inherent in all lending activities. We maintain a reserve for credit losses to absorb estimated probable credit losses inherent in the loan, lease, and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan and lease portfolio, in determining the level of the reserve for credit losses. Many of these assumptions are based on current economic conditions. Volatility and deterioration in the broader economy may increase our risk of credit losses. If our assumptions are incorrect or economic conditions change, the reserve for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Many of our loans are secured by real estate in Hawaii and Guam. As these locations experience softness in the economy, real estate values and customers' ability to repay could be adversely affected, and our loan and lease losses could exceed the estimates that are currently recorded in the reserve for credit losses. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental authorities. The regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, customers, and the banking system as a whole and not for the protection of shareholders. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to penalties and damage to our reputation. Furthermore, the regulatory environment is constantly undergoing change and the impact of changes to laws and regulations, the interpretation of such laws or regulations, or other actions by regulatory agencies could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive. The ramifications and uncertainties of government regulatory reform of the banking and financial services industries could adversely affect the results of our operations. For example, a recent federal rule prohibits a financial institution from automatically enrolling customers in overdraft protection programs, on ATM and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. This recent federal rule is likely to adversely affect the results of our operations. Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to perceived financial and market problems could affect our rights against borrowers. Recently, legislative and regulatory proposals have been discussed at the federal level that would limit an institution's ability to foreclose on the mortgage collateral of borrowers by reducing the amount borrowers are contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans. We could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor, if proposals like these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, were implemented. Competition may adversely affect our business. Our future depends on our ability to compete effectively. We compete for deposits, loans, leases, and other financial services with a variety of competitors, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies all of which may be based in or out of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in 8 Table of Contents connection with current market conditions. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. Failures to effectively compete, innovate, and make effective use of available channels to deliver our products and services could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our liquidity is dependent on dividends from the Bank. The Parent is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. The Parent receives substantially all of its cash in the form of dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Parent's common stock. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Parent. If the amount of dividends paid by the Bank is further limited, the Parent's ability to meet its obligations, pay dividends to shareholders, or repurchase stock, may be further limited. An interruption or breach in security of our information systems may result in financial losses or in a loss of customers. We rely heavily on communications, electricity, and information systems to conduct our business. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide key components of our infrastructure, including loan, deposit and general ledger processing, internet connections, and network access. Any disruption in service of these key components could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our operations. Furthermore, security breaches of our information systems or data, whether managed by us or by third parties, could harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us. Security breaches could also subject the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose the Bank to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings and liquidity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings, liquidity, and capital from negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in a variety of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, ethical issues, or inadequate protection of customer information. We expend significant resources to comply with regulatory requirements. Failure to comply could result in reputational harm or significant legal or remedial costs. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers, and adversely impact our earnings and liquidity. Changes in income tax laws or interpretations or in accounting standards could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in income tax laws could be enacted or interpretations of existing income tax laws could change causing an adverse effect to our financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets, liabilities, and financial results. Periodically, new accounting standards are imposed or existing standards are revised, changing the methods for preparing our financial statements. Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key employees and skilled personnel to operate our business effectively. Our success is dependent on our ability to recruit qualified and skilled personnel to operate our business effectively. Competition for these qualified and skilled people is intense. There are a limited number of qualified personnel in the markets we serve, so our success depends in part on the continued services of many of our current management and other key employees. Failure to retain our key employees and maintain adequate staffing of qualified personnel, could adversely impact our operations and our ability to compete. The soundness of other financial institutions may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a 9 Table of Contents result of trading, clearing, lending, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (the "FHLB"), and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Such losses could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the equity markets could materially affect the level of assets under management and the demand for our other fee-based services. Economic downturns could affect the volume of income from and demand for our fee-based services. Our investment management revenues depend in large part on the level of assets under management. Market volatility that leads customers to liquidate investments, as well as lower asset values can reduce our level of assets under management and thereby decreasing our investment management revenues. Our mortgage banking income may experience significant volatility. Our mortgage banking income is highly influenced by the level and direction of mortgage interest rates, and real estate and refinancing activity. In lower interest rate environments, the demand for mortgage loans and refinancing activity will tend to increase. This has the effect of increasing fee income, but could adversely impact the estimated fair value of our mortgage servicing rights as the rate of loan prepayments increase. In higher interest rate environments, the demand for mortgage loans and refinancing activity will generally be lower. This has the effect of decreasing fee income. Our investment in FHLB stock may be subject to impairment charges in future periods if the financial condition of the FHLB declines further. The Bank is a member of the FHLB, and as such, is required to hold FHLB stock as a condition of membership. As of December 31, 2009, the carrying value of our FHLB stock was $61.3 million and consisted of 612,924 shares valued at a par value of $100 per share. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank held 376,238 shares in excess of the minimum number of shares the Bank was required to hold as a condition of membership. Ownership is restricted and there is no market for these securities. In 2009, the FHLB's primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, has chosen to treat the FHLB as if it was undercapitalized because of several factors, including the possibility that declines in the value of its private-label mortgage-backed securities could cause it to fall below its risk-based capital requirements. Due to this determination, the FHLB currently remains unable to repurchase or redeem capital stock or to pay dividends. If the FHLB's financial condition declines further, other-than-temporary impairment charges related to our investment in FHLB stock could occur in future periods. See discussion in MD&A related to our evaluation of impairment as of December 31, 2009. The requirement to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value may adversely affect our financial results. We report certain assets, including investment securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Given the continued disruption in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to investment securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of our investment securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. 10 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 