Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are some of the important inherent risk factors that could affect our business and operations, although they are not the only risks that may have a material adverse affect on the Company. Changes in business and economic conditions, in particular those of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands (Guam, nearby islands, and American Samoa) could lead to lower revenue, lower asset quality, and lower earnings. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, our business and earnings are closely tied to the economies of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. These local economies rely on tourism, real estate, government, and other service-based industries. Declines in tourism, real or threatened acts of war or terrorism, increases in energy costs, the availability of affordable air transportation, natural disasters and adverse weather, public health issues, and State of Hawaii and County budget issues impact consumer and corporate spending. As a result, such events may contribute to the deterioration in general economic conditions in our markets which could adversely impact us and our customers' operations. Hawaii's economy continued to recover during 2010 due to increasing visitor arrivals and spending. However, deterioration of economic conditions or the pace of economic recovery could adversely affect the quality of our assets, credit losses, and the demand for our products and services, which could lead to lower revenues and lower earnings. The level of visitor arrivals and spending, housing prices, and unemployment rates are some of the metrics that we continually monitor. We also monitor the value of collateral, such as real estate, that secures the loans we have made. The borrowing power of our customers could also be impacted by a decline in the value of collateral. 7 Table of Contents Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market, high levels of unemployment, low loan demand, and low interest margins. Dramatic declines in the national housing market over the past several years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Although Hawaii's economy continues to recover, a decline in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers and/or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions that negatively affect the housing market, the job market and the demand for other goods and services could cause the credit quality of the Company's loan portfolios to deteriorate, which would have a negative impact on the Company's business. Real estate values in Hawaii continued to be somewhat more resilient than many markets on the U.S. Mainland over the past two years. However, there is no assurance that Hawaii real estate values will continue to be more resilient than U.S. Mainland markets. Market turmoil and the tightening of credit has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, a lack of confidence in the financial sector, and increased volatility in the financial markets. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our results of operations and capital. Our earnings are highly dependent on the spread between the interest earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to market interest rates could impact the level of loans, leases, investment securities, deposits, and borrowings, and the credit profile of our current borrowers. Interest rates are affected by many factors beyond our control, and fluctuate in response to general economic conditions, currency fluctuations, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans and leases, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Any substantial prolonged change in market interest rates may negatively impact our ability to attract deposits, originate loans and leases, and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Credit losses could increase during a period of prolonged economic recovery. Although there are indications of an economic recovery nationally and in Hawaii, a prolonged economic recovery could result in increased credit losses for us. The risk of nonpayment of loans and leases is inherent in all lending activities. We maintain a reserve for credit losses to absorb estimated probable credit losses inherent in the loan, lease, and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan and lease portfolio in determining the level of the reserve for credit losses. Many of these assumptions are based on current economic conditions. A prolonged economic recovery nationally and in Hawaii may increase our risk of credit losses beyond what has been provided for in our reserve for credit losses. If our assumptions are incorrect or economic conditions change, the reserve for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Inability of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, or decreases in real estate collateral values may result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures, and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 8 Table of Contents Recent legislation and regulatory initiatives affecting the financial services industry, including restrictions and requirements, could detrimentally affect the Company's business. In response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted in 2010, as well as several programs that have been initiated by the U.S. Treasury, the FRB, and the FDIC to stabilize the financial system. Some of the provisions of recent legislation and regulation that may adversely impact the Company include: the Durbin Act which mandates a limit to debit card interchange fees and Regulation E amendments to the EFTA regarding overdraft fees. These provisions may limit the type of products we offer, the methods by which we offer them, and the prices at which they are offered. These provisions may also increase our costs in offering these products. The newly created CFPB will have unprecedented authority over the regulation of consumer financial products and services. The CFPB will have broad rule-making, supervisory and examination authority, as well as expanded data collecting and enforcement powers. The scope and impact of the CFPB's actions cannot be determined at this time, which creates significant uncertainty for the Company and the financial services industry in general. In December 2010, the oversight body of the Basel Committee published the final Basel III rules on capital, leverage, and liquidity. Basel III requires financial institutions to have more capital and a higher quality of capital. Basel III also imposes a leverage ratio requirement and liquidity standards. Implementation of these new capital and liquidity requirements has created significant uncertainty with respect to the future requirements for financial institutions. These new requirements may result in increases to our capital, liquidity, and disclosure requirements. See the "Regulatory Initiatives Related to Capital and Liquidity" section in MD&A for more information. These new laws, regulations, and changes may increase our costs of regulatory compliance. They may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our investments, and our ongoing operations, costs, and profitability. The future impact of the many provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislative and regulatory initiatives on the Company's business and results of operations will depend upon regulatory interpretation and rulemaking that will be undertaken over the next several months and years. As a result, we are unable to predict the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act or of other future legislation or regulation, including the extent to which it could increase costs or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process could affect our remedies as a creditor. Consumer protection initiatives proposed related to the foreclosure process, including voluntary and/or mandatory programs intended to permit or require lenders to consider loan modifications or other alternatives to foreclosure, could increase our credit losses or increase our expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Competition may adversely affect our business. Our future depends on our ability to compete effectively. We compete for deposits, loans, leases, and other financial services with a variety of competitors, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies all of which may be based in or outside of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. There has been substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services industry over the last few years as a result of the economic crisis. We will continue to experience competition as the trend for further consolidation in the financial services industry continues. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. Failure to effectively compete, innovate, and make effective use of available channels to deliver our products and services could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our liquidity is dependent on dividends from the Bank. The Parent is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. The Parent receives substantially all of its cash in the form of dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Parent's common stock. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Parent. If the amount of dividends paid by the Bank is further limited, the Parent's ability to meet its obligations, pay dividends to shareholders, or repurchase stock, may be further limited. An interruption or breach in security of our information systems may result in financial losses or in a loss of customers. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide key components of our infrastructure, including loan, deposit and general ledger processing, internet connections, and network access. Any disruption in service of these key components could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our operations. Furthermore, security breaches of our information systems or data, whether managed by us or by third parties, could harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us. Security breaches could also subject the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose the Bank to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings and liquidity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings, liquidity, and capital from negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in a variety of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, ethical issues, or inadequate protection of customer information. We expend significant resources to comply with regulatory requirements. Failure to comply could result in reputational harm or significant legal or remedial costs. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers, and adversely impact our earnings and liquidity. Changes in income tax laws or interpretations or in accounting standards could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in income tax laws could be enacted or interpretations of existing income tax laws could change causing an adverse effect to our financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets, liabilities, and financial results. Periodically, new accounting standards are imposed or existing standards are revised, changing the methods for preparing our financial statements. These changes are not within our control and may significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key employees and skilled personnel to operate our business effectively. Our success is dependent on our ability to recruit qualified and skilled personnel to operate our business effectively. Competition for these qualified and skilled people is intense. There are a limited number of qualified personnel in the markets we serve, so our success depends in part on the continued services of many of our current management and other key employees. Failure to retain our key employees and maintain adequate staffing of qualified personnel could adversely impact our operations and our ability to compete. The soundness of other financial institutions, as counterparties, may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, lending, counterparty, or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely 10 Table of Contents execute transactions with brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (the "FHLB"), and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Such losses could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the capital markets could materially affect the level of assets under management and the demand for our other fee-based services. Changes in the capital markets could affect the volume of income from and demand for our fee-based services. Our investment management revenues depend in large part on the level of assets under management. Market volatility that leads customers to liquidate investments, move investments to other institutions or asset classes, as well as lower asset values can reduce our level of assets under management and thereby decrease our investment management revenues. Our mortgage banking income may experience significant volatility. Our mortgage banking income is highly influenced by the level and direction of mortgage interest rates, and real estate and refinancing activity. Interest rates can affect the amount of mortgage banking activity and impact fee income and the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights. Our investment in FHLB stock may be subject to impairment charges in future periods if the financial condition of the FHLB declines further. The Bank is a member of the FHLB, and as such, is required to hold FHLB stock as a condition of membership. As of December 31, 2010, the carrying value of our FHLB stock was $61.3 million and consisted of 612,924 shares valued at a par value of $100 per share. As of December 31, 2010, the Bank held 356,139 shares in excess of the minimum number of shares the Bank was required to hold as a condition of membership. Ownership is restricted and there is no market for these securities. In August 2009, the FHLB received a capital classification of "undercapitalized" from their primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the "Finance Agency"). As of September 30, 2010, the FHLB met all of its regulatory capital requirements, but remained classified as undercapitalized by the Finance Agency due to several factors including the possibility that declines in the value of its private-label mortgage-backed securities could cause it to fall below its risk-based capital requirements. Due to this determination, the FHLB currently remains unable to repurchase or redeem capital stock or to pay dividends. If the FHLB's financial condition declines further, other-than-temporary impairment charges related to our investment in FHLB stock could occur in future periods. See discussion in MD&A related to the impairment analysis of our FHLB stock as of December 31, 2010. The requirement to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value may adversely affect our financial results. We report certain assets, including available-for-sale investment securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we record these assets at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. The level of interest rates can impact the estimated fair value of investment securities. Disruptions in the capital markets may require us to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to investment securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of our investment securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. Visa and MasterCard settlement of an investigation by the Department of Justice may adversely affect our financial results. In October 2010, the Department of Justice and credit card companies, Visa and MasterCard, settled an investigation related to various "processing fees" that the two electronic payment networks charge to merchants, depending on the type of card a customer uses. The settlement will allow merchants to offer more options, including discounts to customers who 11 Table of Contents pay using the least expensive credit and debit cards. The impact of this settlement on our business and results of operations is unpredictable at this time, as it will depend on future actions by regulators, merchants, and consumers. Common Stock Repurchase Program Under our common stock repurchase program, we resumed share repurchases in July 2010, following a period of 20 months during which we made no repurchases of our common stock. The actual amount and timing of future common stock repurchases, if any, will depend on market conditions, applicable SEC rules and various other factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 