Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company's control that could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company describes below some of these risks and uncertainties. Changes in the Hawaii and island market economies could adversely impact the Company. The Company's business is closely tied to the economies of Hawaii and its other island markets, which are heavily influenced by tourism, government and other service-based industries. A sustained economic downturn could adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. 7 Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company. The Company's earnings are highly dependent on the spread between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to the market interest rates could impact the level of loans, deposits and investments, and the credit profile of existing loans. These rates may be affected by many factors beyond the Company's control, including general and economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact the Company's ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company's reserve for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, if it occurs, may have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operation. The Company maintains a Reserve for Credit Losses (the "Reserve") to absorb estimated probable credit losses inherent in the loan and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. In determining the level of the Reserve, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan portfolio. If the Company's assumptions are incorrect, the Reserve may not be sufficient to cover losses which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Many of the Company's loans are secured by real estate in Hawaii and Guam. If these locations experience an economic downturn that impacted real estate values and customers' ability to repay, loan losses could exceed the estimates that are currently included in the Reserve. The Company is subject to extensive regulation. The Company's operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental authorities which impose requirements and restrictions on the Company's operations. The impact of changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for the Company and could adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Competition may adversely affect the Company's business. The Company faces competition for its services from a variety of competitors. The Company's future growth and success depends on its ability to compete effectively. The Company competes for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies that are based in and out of Hawaii. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services, this could adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Parent's liquidity is dependent on dividends from the Bank. The Bank's ability to pay dividends to the Parent is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the Federal Reserve Board could assert that payment of dividends from the Bank to the Parent is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank was unable to pay dividends to the Parent, dividends on the Company's common stock could be jeopardized. The Company's failure to pay dividends or a reduction in the dividend rate could have a material adverse effect on the market price of the Company's common stock. 8 An interruption or breach in security of the Company's information systems may result in a loss of customers. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. In addition, the Company depends, to a significant extent, on several third party service providers. Third parties provide key components of the Company's infrastructure including loan, deposit and general ledger processing, internet connections and network access. Any disruption in service of these key components could adversely affect the Company's ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Further, any security breach of the Company's information systems or data, whether managed by the Company or by third parties, could harm the Company's reputation, cause a decrease in the number of customers, and adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties could have a negative effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Such factors include, but are not limited to: new litigation or changes in existing litigation, claims and assessments; environmental liabilities, asset impairments; real or threatened acts of war or terrorist activity, adverse weather, public health; changes in accounting standards, taxing authority interpretations; and an inability on the Company's part to retain and attract skilled people. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 