Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our financial results and condition to differ materially from expected results. Changes in business and economic conditions, in particular those of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands (Guam and nearby islands and American Samoa) could lead to lower revenue, lower asset quality, and lower earnings. Our business and earnings are closely tied to general business and economic conditions, particularly the economies of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands, which are heavily influenced by tourism, government, and other service-based industries. Factors that could affect the general economy include geopolitical risks, such as real or threatened acts of war or terrorism, higher energy costs, reduced consumer or corporate spending, natural disasters or adverse weather, public health issues, and the normal cyclical nature of the economy. A sustained economic downturn could adversely affect the quality of our assets, credit losses, and the demand for our products and services, which could lead to lower revenue and lower earnings. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our results of operations. Our earnings are highly dependent on the spread between the interest earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to market interest rates could impact the level of loans, leases, investment securities, deposits, and borrowings, and the credit profile of existing loans and leases. Interest rates may be affected by many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact our ability to attract deposits, originate loans and leases, and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our reserve for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan and lease losses. The risk of nonpayment of loans and leases is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, if it occurs, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. We maintain a reserve for credit losses to absorb estimated probable credit losses inherent in the loan and lease and commitment portfolios as of the balance 7 sheet date. In determining the level of the reserve for credit losses, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan and lease portfolio. If our assumptions are incorrect, the reserve for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Many of our loans are secured by real estate in Hawaii and Guam. If these locations experience an economic downturn that impacts real estate values and customers’ ability to repay, loan and lease losses could exceed the estimates that are currently included in the reserve for credit losses. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental authorities. The regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, customers and the banking system as a whole. Failure to comply with all applicable regulations could lead to severe penalties and damage to our reputation. Furthermore, the regulatory environment is constantly undergoing change and the impact of changes to laws and regulations, the interpretation of such laws or regulations, or other actions by regulatory agencies could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us. Competition may adversely affect our business. Our future growth and success depends on our ability to compete effectively. We compete for deposits, loans, leases, and other financial services with a variety of competitors, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies all of which may be based in or out of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. Failures to effectively compete, innovate, and make effective use of available channels to deliver our products and services could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our liquidity is dependent on dividends from the Bank. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends to the Parent is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors that the Federal Reserve Board could assert that payment of dividends from the Bank to Parent would be an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank was unable to pay dividends to the Parent, dividends on our common stock which we pay to shareholders could be adversely affected. Failure to pay dividends or a reduction in the dividend rate could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. An interruption or breach in security of our information systems may result in a loss of customers. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide key components of our infrastructure, including loan, deposit and general ledger processing, internet connections, and network access. Any disruption in service of these key components could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our operations. Furthermore, any security breach of our information systems or data, whether managed by us or by third parties, could harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us. Reputational and legal risk. Reputational harm could result from our actual or alleged conduct in a variety of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, ethical issues, or inadequate protection of customer information. We use significant resources to comply with our various regulatory requirements, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and any failure to comply could result in reputational harm or significant legal or remediation costs. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers. In addition, new litigation or changes in existing litigation, claims and assessments, environmental liabilities and costs involved in resolving or defending against any such matters could have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 8 Changes in accounting standards or in income tax laws or interpretations could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets, liabilities, and financial results. Periodically, new accounting standards are issued or revisions made to existing standards that may change the methods governing the preparation of our financial statements. Similarly, new tax legislation could be enacted or interpretations of existing tax laws could change causing an adverse effect to our financial condition or results of operations. Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key employees and skilled personnel to operate our business effectively. There are a limited number of qualified personnel in the markets we serve, so our success depends in part on the continued services of many of our current management and other key employees. Hawaii’s current low unemployment rate also contributes to the difficulty of attracting and retaining qualified employees at all management and staffing levels. Failure to maintain our key employees and maintain adequate staffing of qualified personnel could adversely impact our operations and our ability to compete. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 