Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business, financial and regulatory conditions. The risks and uncertainties described below are some of the important inherent risk factors that could affect our business and operations, although they are not the only risks that may have a material adverse affect on the Company. Changes in business and economic conditions, in particular those of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands (Guam and nearby islands), could lead to lower revenue, lower asset quality, and lower earnings. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, our business and earnings are closely tied to the economies of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. These local economies rely heavily on tourism, real estate, government, and other service-based industries. Lower visitor arrivals or spending, real or threatened acts of war or terrorism, increases in energy costs, the availability of affordable air transportation, climate change, natural disasters and adverse weather, public health issues including Asian air pollution, and Federal, State of Hawaii and County budget issues may impact consumer and corporate spending. As a result, such events may contribute to a significant deterioration in general economic conditions in our markets which could adversely impact us and our customers' operations. General economic conditions in Hawaii continued to be healthy in 2013, led by a strong tourism industry, relatively low unemployment, rising real estate prices, and an accelerating construction industry. However, deterioration of economic conditions or the slow pace of economic recovery, either locally or nationally, could adversely affect the quality of our assets, credit losses, and the demand for our products and services, which could lead to lower revenues and lower earnings. The level of visitor arrivals and spending, housing prices, and unemployment rates are some of the metrics that we continually monitor. We also monitor the value of collateral, such as real estate, that secures the loans we have made. The borrowing power of our customers could also be negatively impacted by a decline in the value of collateral.Changes in defense spending by the federal government as a result of congressional budget cuts could adversely impact the economy in Hawaii and the Pacific Islands.The U.S. military has a major presence in Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. As a result, the U.S. military is an important aspect of the economies in which we operate. The funding of the U.S. military is subject to the overall U.S. Government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events, macroeconomic conditions, and the ability of the U.S. Government to enact legislation, such as appropriations bills on the debt ceiling. U.S. Government appropriations have and likely will continue to be affected by larger U.S. Government budgetary issues and related legislation. Cuts in defense and other security spending could have an adverse impact on the economies in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our results of operations and capital. Our earnings are highly dependent on the spread between the interest earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to market interest rates could impact the level of loans, leases, investment securities, deposits, and borrowings, and the credit profile of our current borrowers. Interest rates are affected by many factors beyond our control, and fluctuate in response to general economic conditions, currency fluctuations, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans and leases, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Any substantial prolonged change in market interest rates may negatively impact our ability to attract deposits, originate loans and leases, and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.Credit losses could increase if economic conditions stagnate or deteriorate.Although economic conditions are improving nationally and in Hawaii, increased credit losses for us could result if economic conditions stagnate or deteriorate. The risk of nonpayment on loans and leases is inherent in all lending activities. We maintain a reserve for credit losses to absorb estimated probable credit losses inherent in the loan, lease, and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan and lease portfolio in determining the 9Table of Contentslevel of the reserve for credit losses. Many of these assumptions are based on current economic conditions. Should economic conditions stagnate or deteriorate nationally or in Hawaii, we may experience higher credit losses in future periods.Inability of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, or decreases in real estate collateral values may result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures, and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Legislation and regulatory initiatives affecting the financial services industry, including new restrictions and requirements, could detrimentally affect the Company's business.In light of current conditions and the market expectation of a slow economic recovery, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of financial institutions. Laws and regulations, and in particular banking, securities and tax laws, are under intense scrutiny because of the current economic environment. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, triggered sweeping reforms to the financial services industry. Although many of the rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act have already gone into effect, roughly half of the rules required to be implemented under the Dodd-Frank Act have yet to be implemented and will require further interpretation and rulemaking by federal regulators. We are closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations. While the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on us cannot currently be determined, the law and its implementing rules and regulations have resulted and are likely to continue to result in increased compliance costs and fees, along with possible restrictions on our operations, any of which may have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. The regulation of most consumer financial products and services is now centralized in the CFPB, where it has begun to exercise its broad rule-making, supervisory, and examination authority, as well as expanded data collecting and enforcement powers, over depository institutions with more than $10.0 billion in assets. The CFPB has recently focused its rulemaking in several areas, particularly in the areas of mortgage reform involving the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (Reg X), the Truth-in-Lending Act (Reg Z), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (Reg B), and the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. In January 2013, the CFPB issued six mortgage-related rulemakings involving, among other things, new Ability-to-Repay requirements, standards for the “Qualified Mortgage” safe harbor, a new regulatory framework for mortgage servicing, and changes to loan originator compensation arrangements, all of which will create challenges for product and service offerings, operations and compliance programs. These rules became effective January 10, 2014.Regulation of overall safety and soundness, the CRA, federal housing and flood insurance, as they pertain to consumer financial products and services, will remain with the FRB. Many of the rules and regulations of the CFPB have not been implemented, and therefore, the scope and impact of the CFPB's actions cannot be determined at this time. This creates significant uncertainty for the Company and the financial services industry in general.These new laws, regulations, and changes may continue to increase our costs of regulatory compliance. They may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our investments, and our ongoing operations, costs, and profitability. The future impact of the many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislative and regulatory initiatives on the Company's business and results of operations will depend upon regulatory interpretation and rulemaking that will be undertaken over the next several months and years. As a result, we are unable to predict the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act or of other future legislation or regulation, including the extent to which it could increase costs or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Changes in the capital, leverage, liquidity requirements and the introduction of stress testing requirements for financial institutions could materially affect future requirements of the Company.Under Basel III, financial institutions will be required to have more capital and a higher quality of capital. Under the final rules issued by the banking regulators, minimum requirements will increase for both the quantity and quality of capital held by the Company. The phase-in period for the final rules will begin for the Company on January 1, 2015, with full compliance with all of the final rule's requirements phased in over a multi-year schedule. On October 9, 2012, the FRB published final rules implementing the stress testing requirements for banks, such as the Company, with total consolidated assets of more than $10.0 billion but less than $50.0 billion, but delayed the initial stress test until the fall of 2013 (utilizing data as of September 30, 2013). The final stress testing rules set forth the timing and type of stress test activities, as well as rules governing controls, oversight and disclosure.10Table of ContentsCompliance with Basel III and the results of our stress testing may result in increased capital, liquidity, and disclosure requirements. See the "Regulatory Initiatives Affecting the Banking Industry" section in MD&A for more information.Consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process could affect our remedies as a creditor.Proposed consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process, including voluntary and/or mandatory programs intended to permit or require lenders to consider loan modifications or other alternatives to foreclosure, could increase our credit losses or increase our expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor.In recent years, Hawaii overhauled its rules for nonjudicial, or out-of-court, foreclosures. Previously, nonjudicial foreclosures were how most lenders handled foreclosures in Hawaii, as the process was quicker and less expensive than going through court. The revised rules had the unintended effect of lenders forgoing nonjudicial foreclosures entirely and filing all foreclosures in court, creating a backlog that has slowed the judicial foreclosure process. Although some of the backlog has been cleared, lenders continue to use the judicial foreclosure process exclusively, making the foreclosure process very lengthy. There is discussion about further changes to the foreclosure laws in Hawaii, with the potential to create further delays for new and existing cases. In addition, the joint federal-state settlement with several mortgage servicers over foreclosure practice abuses creates additional uncertainty for the Company and the mortgage servicing industry in general as it relates to the implementation of mortgage loan modifications and loss mitigation practices in the future. The manner in which these issues are ultimately resolved could impact our foreclosure procedures, which in turn could affect our financial condition or results of operations. Competition may adversely affect our business.Our future depends on our ability to compete effectively. We compete for deposits, loans, leases, and other financial services with a variety of competitors, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies, all of which may be based in or outside of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. We expect competitive conditions to intensify as consolidation in the financial services industry continues. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies, including non-depository institutions, to provide financial services. Failure to effectively compete, innovate, and to make effective use of available channels to deliver our products and services could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.The Parent's liquidity is dependent on dividends from the Bank.The Parent is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. The Parent receives substantially all of its cash in the form of dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay, for example, dividends on the Parent's common stock or to repurchase common stock under our share repurchase program. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Parent. If the amount of dividends paid by the Bank is further limited, the Parent's ability to meet its obligations, pay dividends to shareholders, or repurchase stock, may be further limited as well.A failure in or breach of our operational systems, information systems, or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, may result in financial losses, loss of customers, or damage to our reputation.We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide key components of our infrastructure, including loan, deposit and general ledger processing, internet connections, and network access. These types of information and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. These third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing firms, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. Although we have safeguards and business continuity plans in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and our customers, resulting in financial losses, loss of customers, or damage to our reputation.11Table of ContentsAn interruption or breach in security of our information systems or those related to merchants and third party vendors, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, or result in financial losses.Our technologies, systems, networks and software, and those of other financial institutions, have been and are likely to continue to be the target of cyber attacks, malicious code, computer viruses and denial of service attacks that could result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), account takeovers, unavailability of service or other events. These types of threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of external or internal parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Further, to access our products and services our customers may use computers and mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Our customers and employees have been, and will continue to be, targeted by parties using fraudulent e-mails and other communications to misappropriate passwords, credit card numbers, bank account information or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through "trojan horse" programs to our customers' computers. These communications may appear to be legitimate messages sent by the Bank or other businesses, but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the e-mail or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information via e-mail or download a program. Despite our efforts to mitigate these threats through product improvements, use of encryption and authentication technology to secure online transmission of confidential consumer information, and customer and employee education, such attempted frauds against us or our merchants and our third party service providers remain a serious issue. The pervasiveness of cyber security incidents in general and the risks of cyber crime are complex and continue to evolve. In view of the recent high-profile retail data breaches involving customer personal and financial information, the potential impact on the Company and any exposure to consumer losses and the cost of technology investments to improve security could cause customer and/or Bank losses, damage to our brand, and an increase in our costs. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our information systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A security breach or other significant disruption could: 1) Disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; 2) Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including account numbers and other financial information; 3) Result in a violation of applicable privacy, data breach and other laws, subjecting the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose the Bank to civil litigation, governmental fines and possible financial liability; 4) Require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; or 5) Harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us. The occurrence of any such failures, disruptions or security breaches could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings and liquidity.Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings, liquidity, and capital from negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in a variety of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, ethical issues, or inadequate protection of customer information. We expend significant resources to comply with regulatory requirements. Failure to comply could result in reputational harm or significant legal or remedial costs. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers, and adversely impact our earnings and liquidity.We are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results.We are, from time to time, involved in various legal proceedings arising from our normal business activities. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. 12Table of ContentsThe outcome of these cases is uncertain. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Based on information currently available, we believe that the eventual outcome of known actions against us will not be materially in excess of such amounts accrued by us. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of those matters may be material to our statement of income for any particular period.Changes in income tax laws or interpretations or in accounting standards could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations.Changes in income tax laws could be enacted, or interpretations of existing income tax laws could change, causing an adverse effect to our financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets, liabilities, and financial results. Periodically, new accounting standards are imposed or existing standards are revised, changing the methods for preparing our financial statements. These changes are not within our control and may significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations.Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key employees and skilled personnel to operate our business effectively.Our success is dependent on our ability to recruit qualified and skilled personnel to operate our business effectively. Competition for these qualified and skilled people is intense. There are a limited number of qualified personnel in the markets we serve, so our success depends in part on the continued services of many of our current management and other key employees. Failure to retain our key employees and maintain adequate staffing of qualified personnel could adversely impact our operations and our ability to compete.The soundness of other financial institutions, as counterparties, may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations.Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, lending, counterparty, or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Such losses could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations.Changes in the capital markets could materially affect the level of assets under management and the demand for our other fee-based services.Changes in the capital markets could affect the volume of income from and demand for our fee-based services. Our investment management revenues depend in large part on the level of assets under management. Market volatility that leads customers to liquidate investments, move investments to other institutions or asset classes, as well as lower asset values can reduce our level of assets under management and thereby decrease our investment management revenues. Our mortgage banking income may experience significant volatility.Our mortgage banking income is highly influenced by the level and direction of mortgage interest rates, real estate activity, and refinancing activity. Interest rates can affect the amount of mortgage banking activity and impact fee income and the fair value of our derivative financial instruments and mortgage servicing rights. Mortgage banking income may also be impacted by changes in our strategy to manage our residential mortgage portfolio. For example, we may occasionally change the proportion of our loan originations that are sold in the secondary market and added to our loan portfolio.Our mortgage banking income was particularly strong in 2012 due to high levels of loan refinancing activity and loan sales, which were the result of low interest rates. Our mortgage banking income decreased in 2013 compared to 2012 as rising interest rates 13Table of Contentsduring 2013 adversely impacted the salable loan pipeline volume and its related loan sales margins. Further decreases in mortgage banking income could adversely affect our results of operations.The requirement to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value may adversely affect our financial results.We report certain assets, including available-for-sale investment securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we record these assets at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. The level of interest rates can impact the estimated fair value of investment securities. Disruptions in the capital markets may require us to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to investment securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of our investment securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period.There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase stock.During 2013, we repurchased 0.7 million shares of our common stock at a total cost of $35.5 million under our share repurchase program. We also paid cash dividends of $80.5 million during 2013. In January 2014, the Parent's Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.45 per share on the Parent's outstanding shares. In addition, from January 1, 2014 through February 14, 2014, the Parent repurchased an additional 113,500 shares of common stock at an average cost of $57.85 per share and a total cost of $6.6 million. As of February 14, 2014, remaining buyback authority was $27.4 million of the total $1.9 billion repurchase amount authorized by our Board of Directors. Whether we continue and the amount and timing of such dividends and/or stock repurchases are subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends and/or stock repurchases are in the best interest of our shareholders. We continue to evaluate the potential impact that regulatory proposals may have on our liquidity and capital management strategies, including Basel III and those required under the Dodd-Frank Act. The actual amount and timing of future dividends and share repurchases, if any, will depend on market and economic conditions, applicable SEC rules, federal and state regulatory restrictions, and various other factors. In addition, the amount we spend and the number of shares we are able to repurchase under our stock repurchase program may further be affected by a number of other factors, including the stock price and blackout periods in which we are restricted from repurchasing shares. Our dividend payments and/or stock repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends and/or repurchase stock in any particular amounts or at all. A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments and/or stock repurchases could have a negative effect on our stock price.14Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 