ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risks when reading the information, including the financial information, contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Fluctuations in the prices and availability of commodity chemicals, which are cyclical in nature, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the margins of our products. Periodically, we experience significant and rapid fluctuations in the commodity pricing of raw materials. The cyclicality of commodity chemical markets, such as caustic soda, primarily results from changes in the balance between supply and demand and the level of general economic activity. We cannot predict whether the markets for our commodity chemicals will favorably impact our operations or whether we will experience a negative impact due to oversupply and lower prices. Our principal raw materials are generally purchased under supply contracts. The prices we pay under these contracts generally lag the market prices of the underlying raw material. The pricing within our supply contracts generally adjusts quarterly or monthly. In addition, the cost of inventory we have on hand generally will lag the current market pricing of such inventory. While we attempt to maintain competitive pricing and stable margin dollars, the variability in our cost of inventory from the current market pricing can cause significant volatility in our margins realized. In periods of rapidly increasing market prices, the inventory cost position will tend to be favorable to us, possibly by material amounts, which may positively impact our margins. Conversely, in periods of rapidly decreasing market prices, the inventory cost position will tend to be unfavorable to us, possibly by material amounts, which may negatively impact our margins. We do not engage in futures or other derivatives contracts to hedge against fluctuations in future prices. We may enter into sales contracts where the selling prices for our products are fixed for a period of time, exposing us to volatility in raw materials prices that we acquire on a spot market or short-term contractual basis. We attempt to pass commodity pricing changes to our customers, but we may be unable to or be delayed in doing so. Our inability to pass through price increases or any limitation or delay in our passing through price increases could adversely affect our profit margins. We are also dependent upon the availability of our raw materials. In the event that raw materials are in short supply or unavailable, raw material suppliers may extend lead times or limit or cut off supplies. As a result, we may not be able to supply or manufacture products for some or all of our customers. For example, in calendar 2008 a miners’ strike in Canada significantly limited supplies of potassium chloride, a key component of some of our products. Due to the resulting shortage, many chemical companies were unable to supply their customers. While we were able to obtain a supply of the product sufficient to meet our customers’ needs, we cannot be certain that such supplies would be available in the future should other similar shortages occur. Constraints on the supply or delivery of critical raw materials could disrupt our operations and adversely affect the performance of our business. 6 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive environment and face significant competition and price pressure. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete with producers, manufacturers, distributors and sales agents offering chemicals equivalent to substantially all of the products we handle. Competition is based on several key criteria, including product price, product performance and quality, product availability and security of supply, responsiveness of product development in cooperation with customers, and customer service. Many of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater financial resources. As a result, these competitors may be better able than us to withstand changes in conditions within our industry, changes in the prices and availability of raw materials, and changes in general economic conditions. Additionally, competitors’ pricing decisions could compel us to decrease our prices, which could adversely affect our margins and profitability. Our ability to maintain or increase our profitability is dependent upon our ability to offset competitive decreases in the prices and margins of our products by improving production efficiency and volume, identifying higher margin chemical products and improving existing products through innovation and research and development. If we are unable to maintain our profitability or competitive position, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience reduced profitability. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions and by the cyclical nature of many of the industries we serve, which could cause significant fluctuations in our sales volumes and results. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions. A decline in general economic or business conditions in the industries served by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although our sales volumes have increased in areas traditionally considered non-cyclical such as water treatment and food products, many of our customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature, such as the industrial manufacturing, surface finishing and energy industries which include the automobile parts markets and the ethanol industry. Downturns in these industries could adversely affect our sales and our financial results by affecting demand for and pricing of our products. Our business is subject to hazards common to chemical businesses, any of which could interrupt our production and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to hazards common to chemical manufacturing, storage, handling and transportation, including explosions, fires, severe weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other risks. These hazards could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental contamination. In addition, the occurrence of material operating problems at our facilities due to any of these hazards may diminish our ability to meet our output goals and result in a negative public or political reaction. Many of our facilities are bordered by significant residential populations which increase the risk of negative public or political reaction should an environmental issue occur and could lead to adverse zoning actions that could limit our ability to operate our business in those locations. Accordingly, these hazards and their consequences could have a material adverse effect on our operations as a whole, including our results of operations and cash flows, both during and after the period of operational difficulties. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations cause us to incur substantial costs and may subject us to future liabilities. In the jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, and the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. The nature of our business exposes us to risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, use, transportation and sale of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury if released into the environment. Ongoing compliance with such laws and regulations is an important consideration for us and we invest substantial capital and incur significant operating costs in our compliance efforts. Governmental regulation has become increasingly strict in recent years. We expect this trend to continue and anticipate that compliance will continue to require increased capital expenditures and operating costs. 7 Table of Contents If we violate environmental, health and safety laws or regulations, in addition to being required to correct such violations, we could be held liable in administrative, civil or criminal proceedings for substantial fines and other sanctions that could disrupt or limit our operations. Liabilities associated with the investigation and cleanup of hazardous substances, as well as personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages arising out of such hazardous substances, may be imposed in many situations without regard to violations of laws or regulations or other fault, and may also be imposed jointly and severally (so that a responsible party may be held liable for more than its share of the losses involved, or even the entire loss). Such liabilities can be difficult to identify and the extent of any such liabilities can be difficult to predict. We use, and in the past have used, hazardous substances at many of our facilities, and have generated, and continue to generate, hazardous wastes at a number of our facilities. We have in the past, and may in the future, be subject to claims relating to exposure to hazardous materials and the associated liabilities may be material. Changes in our customers’ products or failure of our products to meet customers’ quality specifications could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our chemicals are used for a broad range of applications by our customers. Changes in our customers’ products or processes may enable our customers to reduce or eliminate consumption of the chemicals that we provide. Customers may also find alternative materials or processes that no longer require our products. Consequently, it is important that we develop new products to replace the sales of products that mature and decline in use. Our products provide important performance attributes to our customers’ products. If our products fail to perform in a manner consistent with quality specifications or have a shorter useful life than guaranteed, a customer could seek replacement of the product or damages for costs incurred as a result of the product failing to perform as expected. A successful claim or series of claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could result in a loss of one or more customers. Our business, particularly our Water Treatment Group, is subject to seasonality and weather conditions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our Water Treatment Group has historically experienced higher sales during April to September, primarily due to a seasonal increase in chemicals used by municipal water treatment facilities. Demand is also affected by weather conditions, as either higher or lower than normal precipitation or temperatures may affect water usage and the consumption of our products. We cannot assure you that seasonality or fluctuating weather conditions will not have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Costs related to a multi-employer pension plan, which has liabilities in excess of plan assets, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We participate in the Central States Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Funds (“CSS” or “the plan”), a multi-employer pension plan, for certain unionized employees. Our contributions to the plan may escalate in future years should we withdraw from the plan or upon the occurrence of factors outside our control, including the bankruptcy or insolvency of other participating employers, actions taken by trustees who manage the plan, government regulations, or a funding deficiency in the plan. CSS adopted a rehabilitation plan as a result of its actuarial certification for the plan year beginning January 1, 2008 which placed the plan in critical status. The plan’s 2010 Annual Funding Notice stated that as of January 1, 2010 the Central States Pension Fund remained in critical status with a funded percentage of 63.4%. The plan adopted an updated rehabilitation plan effective December 31, 2010 which implements additional measures to improve the plan’s funded level, including establishing an increased minimum retirement age and actuarially adjusting certain pre-age 65 benefits for participants who retire after July 1, 2011. Despite these changes, we can make no assurances of the extent to which the updated rehabilitation plan will improve the funded status of the plan. While the underfunding of the plan is not our direct obligation or liability, we are responsible for our portion of the underfunded liability in certain circumstances. For instance, if we were to cease making contributions to the plan or if our union employees discontinued participation in the union, we could trigger a substantial withdrawal liability. We are currently unable to reasonably estimate any such potential contingent liability. Any withdrawal liability will be recorded when it is probable that a liability exists and can be reasonably estimated. 8 Table of Contents The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance, but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and limits on the liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits or outside the coverage of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental remediation. In addition, from time to time, various types of insurance for companies in the specialty chemical industry have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, have not been available at all. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. If we are unable to retain key personnel or attract new skilled personnel, it could have an adverse impact on our business. Because of the specialized and technical nature of our business, our future performance is dependent on the continued service of, and on our ability to attract and retain, qualified management, scientific, technical and support personnel. The unanticipated departure of key members of our management team could have an adverse impact on our business. We may not be able to successfully consummate future acquisitions or integrate acquisitions into our business, which could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. As part of our business growth strategy, we have acquired businesses and may pursue acquisitions in the future. Our ability to pursue this strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. The expense incurred in consummating acquisitions, the time it takes to integrate an acquisition or our failure to integrate businesses successfully could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. The risks associated with the integration of acquisitions include potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, unforeseen claims, liabilities, adjustments, charges and write-offs, difficulty in conforming the acquired business’ standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations, and challenges arising from the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of the expanded operations. Our business is subject to risks stemming from natural disasters or other extraordinary events outside of our control, which could interrupt our production and adversely affect our results of operations. Natural disasters have the potential of interrupting our operations and damaging our properties, which could adversely affect our business. Since 1963, flooding of the Mississippi River has required the Company’s terminal operations to be temporarily shifted out of its buildings seven times, including three times since the spring of 2010. No assurance can be given that flooding or other natural disasters will not recur or that there will not be material damage or interruption to our operations in the future from such disasters. Chemical-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets in the United States. Federal law imposes new site security requirements, specifically on chemical facilities, which require increased capital spending and increase our overhead expenses. New federal regulations have already been adopted to increase the security of the transportation of hazardous chemicals in the United States. We ship and receive materials that are classified as hazardous and we believe we have met these requirements, but additional federal and local regulations that limit the distribution of hazardous materials are being considered. Bans on movement of hazardous materials through certain cities could adversely affect the efficiency of our logistical operations. Broader restrictions on hazardous material movements could lead to additional investment and could change where and what products we provide. 9 Table of Contents The occurrence of extraordinary events, including future terrorist attacks and the outbreak or escalation of hostilities, cannot be predicted, but their occurrence can be expected to negatively affect the economy in general, and specifically the markets for our products. The resulting damage from a direct attack on our assets, or assets used by us, could include loss of life and property damage. In addition, available insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of the damage incurred or, if available, may be prohibitively expensive. We may not be able to renew our leases of land where four of our operations facilities reside. We lease the land where our three main terminals are located and where a significant manufacturing plant is located. We do not have guaranteed lease renewal options and may not be able to renew our leases in the future. Our current lease renewal periods extend out to 2014 (one lease), 2018 (two leases) and 2029 (one lease). The failure to secure extended lease terms on any one of these facilities may have a material adverse impact on our business, as they are where a significant portion of our chemicals are manufactured and where the majority of our bulk chemicals are stored. While we can make no assurances, based on historical experience and anticipated future needs, we believe that we will be able to renew our leases as the renewal periods expire. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 