ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any one of which may cause our actual results to differ materially from anticipated results: OUR SUCCESS IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON THE PERFORMANCE OF THE AVIATION INDUSTRY, WHICH COULD BE IMPACTED BY LOWER DEMAND FOR COMMERCIAL AIR TRAVEL OR AIRLINE FLEET CHANGES CAUSING LOWER DEMAND FOR OUR GOODS AND SERVICES. Economic factors and passenger security concerns that affect the aviation industry also affect our business. The aviation industry has historically been subject to downward cycles from time to time which reduce the overall demand for jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts and repair and overhaul services, and such downward cycles result in lower prices and greater credit risk. These economic factors and passenger security concerns may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION AND OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE REGULATIONS COULD CAUSE THE GOVERNMENT TO WITHDRAW OR REVOKE OUR AUTHORIZATIONS AND APPROVALS TO DO BUSINESS AND COULD SUBJECT US TO PENALTIES AND SANCTIONS THAT COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the FAA, highly regulate the manufacture, repair and overhaul of aircraft parts and accessories. We include with the replacement parts that we sell to our customers documentation certifying that each part complies with applicable regulatory requirements and meets applicable standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. In addition, our repair and overhaul operations are subject to 11 certification pursuant to regulations established by the FAA. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in other countries. The revocation or suspension of any of our material authorizations or approvals would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New and more stringent government regulations, if adopted and enacted, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some sales to foreign countries of the equipment manufactured by our Electronic Technologies Group require approval or licensing from the U.S. government. Denial of export licenses could reduce our sales to those countries and could have a material adverse effect on our business. THE RETIREMENT OF COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES. Our Flight Support Group designs, engineers, manufactures and distributes jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts and also offers repairs, refurbishments and overhauls of jet engine and aircraft components. If aircraft for which we have replacement parts or supply repair and overhaul services are retired and there are fewer aircraft that require these parts or services our revenues may decline. REDUCTIONS IN DEFENSE OR SPACE SPENDING BY U.S. AND/OR FOREIGN CUSTOMERS COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES. In fiscal 2006, approximately 44% of the sales of our Electronic Technologies Group were derived from the sale of products and services to U.S. and foreign military agencies and their suppliers. A decline in defense or space budgets or additional restrictions imposed by the U.S. government on sales of products or services to foreign military agencies could lower sales of our products and services. INTENSE COMPETITION FROM EXISTING AND NEW COMPETITORS MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS. We face significant competition in each of our businesses. Flight Support Group o For jet engine replacement parts, we compete with the industry's leading jet engine OEMs, particularly Pratt & Whitney and General Electric. o For the overhaul and repair of jet engine and airframe components, as well as avionics and navigation systems, we compete with: - major commercial airlines, many of which operate their own maintenance and overhaul units; - OEMs, which manufacture, repair and overhaul their own parts; and - other independent service companies. Electronic Technologies Group o For the design and manufacture of various types of electronic and electro-optical equipment as well as high voltage interconnection devices and high speed interface products, we compete in a fragmented marketplace with a number of companies, some of which are well capitalized. 12 The aviation aftermarket supply industry is highly fragmented, has several highly visible leading companies and is characterized by intense competition. Some of our OEM competitors have greater name recognition than HEICO, as well as complementary lines of business and financial, marketing and other resources that HEICO does not have. In addition, OEMs, aircraft maintenance providers, leasing companies and FAA-certificated repair facilities may attempt to bundle their services and product offerings in the supply industry, thereby significantly increasing industry competition. Moreover, our smaller competitors may be able to offer more attractive pricing of parts as a result of lower labor costs or other factors. A variety of potential actions by any of our competitors, including a reduction of product prices or the establishment by competitors of long-term relationships with new or existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition typically intensifies during cyclical downturns in the aviation industry, when supply may exceed demand. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively against present or future competitors, and competitive pressures may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURE OF NEW PRODUCTS, EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES. OUR INABILITY TO DEVELOP, MANUFACTURE AND INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AT PROFITABLE PRICING LEVELS COULD REDUCE OUR SALES OR SALES GROWTH. The aviation, defense, space and electronics industries are constantly undergoing development and change and, accordingly, new products, equipment and methods of repair and overhaul service are likely to be introduced in the future. In addition to manufacturing electronic and electro-optical equipment and selected aerospace and defense components for OEMs and the U.S. government and repairing jet engine and aircraft components, we re-design sophisticated aircraft replacement parts originally developed by OEMs so that we can offer the replacement parts for sale at substantially lower prices than those manufactured by the OEMs. Consequently, we devote substantial resources to research and product development. Technological development poses a number of challenges and risks, including the following: o We may not be able to successfully protect the proprietary interests we have in various aircraft parts, electronic and electro-optical equipment and our repair processes; o As OEMs continue to develop and improve jet engines and aircraft components, we may not be able to re-design and manufacture replacement parts that perform as well as those offered by OEMs or we may not be able to profitably sell our replacement parts at lower prices than the OEMs; o We may need to expend significant capital to: - purchase new equipment and machines, - train employees in new methods of production and service, and - fund the research and development of new products; and o Development by our competitors of patents or methodologies that preclude us from the design and manufacture of aircraft replacement parts or electrical and electro-optical equipment could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to successfully develop new products, equipment or methods of repair and overhaul service, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 PRODUCT SPECIFICATION COSTS AND REQUIREMENTS COULD CAUSE AN INCREASE TO OUR COSTS TO COMPLETE CONTRACTS. Although our engineering teams have usually successfully foreseen contract completion costs, the costs to meet customer specifications and requirements could result in us having to spend more to design or manufacture products and this could reduce our profit margins on current contracts or those we obtain in the future. WE MAY INCUR PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS THAT ARE NOT FULLY INSURED. Our jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts and repair and overhaul services expose our business to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. The commercial aviation industry occasionally has catastrophic losses that may exceed policy limits. An uninsured or partially insured claim, or a claim for which third-party indemnification is not available, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, insurance coverage costs may become even more expensive in the future. Our customers typically require us to maintain substantial insurance coverage and our inability to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates could have a material adverse effect on our business. WE MAY NOT HAVE THE ADMINISTRATIVE, OPERATIONAL OR FINANCIAL RESOURCES TO CONTINUE TO GROW THE COMPANY. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods and intend to continue to pursue an aggressive growth strategy, both through acquisitions and internal expansion of products and services. Our growth to date has placed, and could continue to place, significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources. We may not be able to grow effectively or manage our growth successfully, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EXECUTE OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGY, WHICH COULD SLOW OUR GROWTH. A key element of our strategy is growth through the acquisition of additional companies. Our acquisition strategy is affected by and poses a number of challenges and risks, including the following: o Availability of suitable acquisition candidates; o Availability of capital; o Diversion of management's attention; o Integration of the operations and personnel of acquired companies; o Potential write downs of acquired intangible assets; o Potential loss of key employees of acquired companies; o Use of a significant portion of our available cash; o Significant dilution to our shareholders for acquisitions made utilizing our securities; and o Consummation of acquisitions on satisfactory terms. We may not be able to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 WE MAY INCUR ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES AND THESE LIABILITIES MAY NOT BE COVERED BY INSURANCE. Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. Pursuant to various environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous materials. Environmental laws typically impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous materials. Although management believes that our operations and facilities are in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations, future changes in them or interpretations thereof or the nature of our operations may require us to make significant additional capital expenditures to ensure compliance in the future. We do not maintain specific environmental liability insurance, and the expenses related to these environmental liabilities, if we are required to pay them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON KEY PERSONNEL AND THE LOSS OF THESE KEY PERSONNEL COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR SUCCESS. Our success substantially depends on the performance, contributions and expertise of our senior management team led by Laurans A. Mendelson, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Technical employees are also critical to our research and product development, as well as our ability to continue to re-design sophisticated products of OEMs in order to sell competing replacement parts at substantially lower prices than those manufactured by the OEMs. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees or our inability to continue to attract or retain the necessary personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS HAVE SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE OVER OUR MANAGEMENT AND DIRECTION. As of January 23, 2006, collectively our executive officers and entities controlled by them, our 401(k) Plan and members of the Board of Directors beneficially owned approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock and approximately 14% of our outstanding Class A common stock. Accordingly, they will be able to substantially influence the election of the Board of Directors and control our business, policies and affairs, including our position with respect to proposed business combinations and attempted takeovers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 