ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating the Company’s business, one should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any significant economic downturn could result in our clients using fewer temporary employees, which could materially adversely affect the Company. Demand for temporary services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity. As economic activity slows, businesses may reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their full-time employees, resulting in decreased demand for the Company’s temporary personnel. Further, in an economic downturn, the Company may face pricing pressure from its clients and increased competition from other staffing companies, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company operates in highly competitive markets with low barriers to entry, potentially limiting its ability to maintain or increase its market share or profit margins. The temporary services industry is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry and in recent years has been undergoing significant consolidation. The Company competes in national, regional and local markets with full service agencies and with specialized temporary service agencies. Many competitors are smaller than the Company, but have an advantage over the Company in discrete geographic markets because of their stronger local presence. Other competitors are more well-known and have greater marketing and financial resources than the Company, which among other things could enable them to maintain or increase their market share by reducing prices. The Company expects the level of competition to remain high in the future and competitive pricing pressures may have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating margins. 5 Table of Contents The Company’s success depends upon its ability to attract and retain qualified temporary personnel. The Company depends upon its ability to attract qualified temporary personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of its clients. It must continually evaluate and upgrade its base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. Competition for individuals with proven skills is intense and demand for these individuals is expected to remain very strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available to the Company in sufficient numbers and on terms of employment acceptable to management. The success will depend on the Company’s ability to recruit qualified temporary personnel and retain them. The Company’s business may suffer if it loses its key personnel. The Company’s operations are dependent on the continued efforts of its executive officers and senior management. Additionally, it is dependent on the performance and productivity of its local managers and field personnel. The ability to attract and retain business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered. The loss of those key executive officers and senior management who have acquired experience in operating a staffing service company may cause a significant disruption to the business. Moreover, the loss of key local managers or field personnel may jeopardize existing customer relationships with businesses that continue to use the Company’s staffing services based upon past direct relationships with these local managers and field personnel. Either of these types of losses could adversely affect the Company’s operations, including its ability to establish and maintain customer relationships. The Company may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could materially adversely affect its business. The Company is in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplace of other businesses. Attendant risks of these activities include possible claims by clients of employee misconduct or negligence, claims by employees of discrimination or harassment (including claims relating to actions of its clients), claims related to the inadvertent employment of illegal aliens or unlicensed personnel, payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims. The Company has policies and guidelines in place to help reduce its exposure to these risks and has purchased insurance policies against certain risks in amounts that it believes to be adequate. However, there can be no assurances that it will not experience these problems in the future or that it may not incur fines or other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems that could have a material adverse effect on its business. The cost of unemployment insurance premiums and workers’ compensation costs for temporary employees may rise and reduce the Company’s profit margins. Businesses use temporary staffing in part to shift certain employment costs and risks to personnel services companies. For example, the Company is responsible for, and pays unemployment insurance premiums and workers’ compensation for, its temporary employees. These costs have generally risen as a result of increased claims, general economic conditions and governmental regulation. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to increase the fees charged to its clients in the future to keep pace with increased costs. Price competition in the personnel services industry is intense. If the Company is unable to maintain its margins, it expects that it may choose to stop servicing certain clients. Further, there can be no assurance that certain clients will continue to use the Company at increased cost. There can be no assurance that it will maintain its margins, and if it does not, its results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be adversely affected. The Company retains a portion of the risk under its workers’ compensation program. The estimated remaining deductible liability for all existing and incurred but not reported claims is accrued based upon actuarial methods using current claims information, as well as prior experience, and may be subsequently revised based on new developments related to such claims. Changes in the estimates underlying the claims reserve are 6 Table of Contents charged or credited to earnings in the period determined, and therefore large fluctuations in any given quarter could materially adversely affect earnings in that period. The Company is continually subject to the risk of new regulations, which could harm its business. The Company is subject to bills introduced in Congress and various state legislatures, which, if enacted, could impose conditions that could have a negative financial impact on the Company and harm its business operations. The Company takes an active role (through its affiliations with, and participation in, various staffing industry organizations) in opposing proposed legislation adverse to its business and in informing policy makers as to the social and economic benefits of its business. However, there can be no assurance or guarantees that any of these bills (or future bills) will not be enacted, in which case, demand for the Company’s services or its financial condition, or both, may suffer. The Company faces litigation that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In the ordinary conduct of business, the Company is subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to, employment matters. It is possible that the Company may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of its insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. The Company could also incur substantial legal costs, and management’s attention and resources could be diverted from the business. The Company’s business may be at risk if there is failure of implementing a new information system. In 2006, the Company implemented new front-office and back-office systems to be utilized in connection with the commercial and professional staffing operations. This implementation of new management information systems required a significant investment in software, hardware, outside consultant assistance and internal personnel resources. Although it is believed that this technology initiative will increase productivity, improve operating efficiencies and lower long-term operating costs, there is no assurance that such an initiative will yield its intended results. The Company is dependent on the proper functioning of information systems in operating its business, particularly with respect to monitoring client assignments and billing. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, we would have to accomplish these functions manually, which would temporarily impact our client records and billing capabilities, The Company’s information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards including the use of a third party processing center. However, the Company’s corporate headquarters and a number of our customers are located in Florida, which is a hurricane-sensitive area. During fiscal 2005, four hurricanes made land-fall in Florida, with Hurricane Wilma moving directly through South Florida and causing significant infrastructure damage and disruption to the area. Our revenues from offices in South Florida were adversely affected by these hurricanes during fiscal 2005. Similar disruptions to our offices and the business of our customers from natural disasters, terrorist acts, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, computer viruses and similar events any adversely impact our revenues. The Company’s business may be at risk if there is any negative development with significant customers. Of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 12.1% came from one major customer and 30.0% came from our top ten customers. The addition of offices and entry into new geographic markets may not occur on a timely basis or achieve anticipated financial results. A key element of our growth strategy includes entering new geographic markets. Our success in entering new 7 Table of Contents markets depends on a number of factors including our ability to: • develop, recruit and maintain qualified personnel in the new geographic market; • develop and sustain customer relationships in each new market; • accurately assess the demand for our services in a new geographic market. The addition of offices and new geographic areas typically result in an increase in our operating expenses, primarily due to increased employee headcount. Because there is typically a delay between a new office opening and reaching full productivity, new office openings may adversely affect our results of operations for a period of time. In addition, we may not accurately forecast the demand for our services in new markets that we enter. If we do not adequately manage for foregoing factors, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Significant increases in payroll-related costs could adversely affect the Company’s business. We are required to pay a number of federal, state and local payroll and related costs, including unemployment taxes, workers compensation and insurance, FICA, and Medicare, among others, for our employees. Significant increases in the effective rates of any payroll-related costs likely would have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. Costs could also increase as a result of health care reforms or the possible imposition of additional requirements and restrictions related to the placement of personnel. Recent federal and state legislative proposals have included provisions extending health insurance benefits to personnel who currently do not receive such benefits. We may not be able to increase the fees charged to our clients in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs, if any such proposals are adopted. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 