RISK FACTORS In addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the Company cautions that the following “Risk Factors” could affect its actual results in the future. 1. Competition Competition in the Contract Drilling Business The contract drilling business is highly competitive. Competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability, efficiency, condition of equipment, reputation, operating safety, and customer relations. Competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. Land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. Although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, the Company has been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed the Company to secure drilling work even though the Company may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. The Company has continued to attempt to differentiate its services based upon its engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, and safety and environmental awareness. This strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. Also, future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by the Company’s competitors could negatively affect the Company’s ability to differentiate its services. Competition in the Real Estate Business The Company has numerous competitors in the multi-tenant leasing business. The size and financial capacity of these competitors range from one property sole proprietors to large international corporations. The primary competitive factors include price, location, and configuration of space. The Company’s competitive position is enhanced by the location of its properties, its financial capability and the long-term ownership of its properties. However, many competitors have financial resources greater than the Company and have more contemporary facilities. Also, current economic conditions have encouraged prospective tenants to construct owner-occupied buildings rather than lease third party space. 2. Operating and Rig Construction Risks The drilling operations of the Company are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts and well fires. These hazards could cause personal injury, suspend drilling operations, seriously damage or destroy the equipment involved, and cause substantial damage to producing formations and the surrounding areas. The Company’s offshore platform drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. The Company’s new-build rig assembly facility is located near the Houston, Texas ship channel. Also, certain of the Company’s fabricators and other vendors are located in the Gulf Coast region. Due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. 7 3. Fixed Term Contract Risk Fixed term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an “early termination payment” to be paid to the Company if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. However, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig or sustained unacceptable performance by the Company, no early termination payment would be paid to the Company. 4. Indemnification and Insurance Coverage The Company has insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, public liability, automobile liability, worker’s compensation, employer’s liability, and property damage. Generally, deductibles range from $1 million or $2 million per occurrence, depending on whether a claim occurs inside or outside of the United States. The Company maintains certain other insurance coverages with $5 million deductibles. Insurance is purchased over these deductibles to limit the Company’s exposure to catastrophic events. In fiscal 2005, the Company obtained property insurance coverage for 85 percent of the aggregate estimated replacement cost of its land rigs in excess of a $1 million deductible. The Company self-insured the remaining 15 percent of such land rig value. No insurance is carried against loss of earnings or business interruption. The Company is unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage; however, the Company is generally indemnified under its drilling contracts from this risk. The Company retains a significant portion of its expected losses under its worker’s compensation, general, and automobile liability programs. The Company records estimates for incurred outstanding liabilities for unresolved worker’s compensation, general liability claims and for claims that are incurred but not reported. Estimates are based on historic experience and statistical methods that the Company believes are reliable. Nonetheless, insurance estimates include certain assumptions and management judgments regarding the frequency and severity of claims, claim development, and settlement practices. Unanticipated changes in these factors may produce materially different amounts of expense that would be reported under these programs. The majority of the Company’s insurance coverage has been purchased through fiscal 2006. Multiple hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico during August and September had a severe impact on the availability and price of the Company’s rig property insurance coverage for 2006. As a result, the Company was able to place only 85 percent of its rig property coverage excess of a $1 million per occurrence deductible. In addition, the Company could share in losses up to a maximum of $5 million should loss levels exceed a set percentage of excess property premium. No assurance can be given that all or a portion of the Company’s coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2006 or that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable. No assurance can be given that the Company’s insurance and indemnification arrangements will adequately protect it against all liabilities that could result from the hazards of its drilling operations. Incurring a liability for which the Company is not fully insured or indemnified could materially affect the Company’s results of operations. 5. Availability of Equipment and Supplies The contract drilling business is highly cyclical. During periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. These risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. 6. Volatility of Oil and Gas Prices The Company’s operations can be materially affected by low oil and gas prices. The Company believes that any significant reduction in oil and gas prices could depress the level of exploration and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in demand for the Company’s services. Worldwide military, political and economic events, 8 including initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and gas. Fluctuations during the last few years in the demand and supply of oil and gas have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. Any prolonged reduction in demand for the Company’s services could have a material and adverse effect on the Company. 7. International Uncertainties and Local Laws International operations are subject to certain political, economic, and other uncertainties not encountered in U.S. operations, including increased risks of terrorism, kidnapping of employees, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of a particular oil company operator’s property and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, currency rate fluctuations, and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. There can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations, and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of the Company’s operations or on the ability of the Company to continue operations in certain areas. Because of the impact of local laws, the Company’s future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which the Company holds only a minority interest, or pursuant to arrangements under which the Company conducts operations under contract to local entities. While the Company believes that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that the Company will in all cases be able to structure or restructure its operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms acceptable to the Company. Although the Company attempts to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2005, approximately 22 percent of the Company’s consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. Approximately 85 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in South America and approximately 84 percent of South American operating revenues were from Venezuela and Ecuador. 8. Currency Risk General Contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in United States dollars, except for amounts required to meet local expenses. However, government owned petroleum companies are more frequently requesting that a greater proportion of these payments be made in local currencies. Based upon current information, the Company believes that exposure to potential losses from currency devaluation is minimal in Colombia, Ecuador, Bolivia, and Equatorial Guinea. In those countries, all receivables and payments are currently in U.S. dollars. Cash balances are kept at a minimum which assists in reducing exposure. Argentina In 2002, Argentina suffered a 60 percent devaluation of the peso. As a consequence, the Company secured agreements with its customers that limited the portion of the accounts receivable that was paid in pesos with the balance of such accounts receivable paid in U.S. dollars. The Company experienced minimal Argentine currency losses in fiscal 2005. 9 Venezuela The Company is exposed to risks of currency devaluation in Venezuela primarily as a result of bolivar receivable balances and bolivar cash balances. In Venezuela, approximately 40 percent of the Company’s invoice billings are in U.S. dollars and 60 percent are in the local currency, the bolivar. The significance of this arrangement is that even though the dollar-based invoices may be paid in bolivares, the Company, historically, has usually been able to convert the bolivares into U.S. dollars in a timely manner and thus avoid, in large measure, devaluation losses pertaining to the dollar-based invoices. However, this arrangement is effective only in the absence of exchange controls. In January 2003, the Venezuelan government put into effect exchange controls that fixed the exchange rate and also prohibited the Company, as well as other companies, from converting the bolivar into U.S. dollars through the Central Bank. As part of the exchange controls regulation, the Venezuelan government provided a mechanism by which companies could request conversion of bolivares into U.S. dollars. In compliance with such regulations, the Company, in October of 2003, submitted a request to the Venezuelan government seeking permission to dividend earnings, which would convert 14 billion bolivares into U.S. dollars. In January 2004, the Venezuelan government approved the Company’s request to convert bolivar cash balances to U.S. dollars and allowed the remittance of $8.8 million U.S. dollars as dividends to the U.S. based parent. As a consequence, the Company’s exposure to currency devaluation was reduced by this amount. As stated above, the Company is exposed to risks of currency devaluation in Venezuela primarily as a result of bolivar receivable balances and bolivar cash balances. As a result of a 12 percent devaluation of the bolivar during fiscal 2005, the Company experienced total devaluation losses of $0.6 million during that same period. These devaluation losses may not be reflective of the actual potential for future devaluation losses because of the exchange controls that are currently in place. While the Company is unable to predict future devaluation in Venezuela, if fiscal 2006 activity levels are similar to fiscal 2005, and if a 10 percent to 20 percent devaluation were to occur, the Company could experience potential currency devaluation losses ranging from approximately $1.6 million to $2.9 million. In late August 2003, the Venezuelan state petroleum company agreed, on a prospective basis, to pay a portion of the Company’s dollar-based invoices in U.S. dollars. Were this agreement to end, the Company would again receive these payments in bolivares and thus increase bolivar cash balances and exposure to devaluation. On September 28, 2005, the Company made application with the Venezuelan government requesting the approval to convert bolivar cash balances to U.S. dollars. Upon approval from the Venezuelan government, the Company’s Venezuelan subsidiary will remit those dollars as a dividend to its U.S. based parent, thus reducing the Company’s exposure to currency devaluation. 9. Governmental Instability in Venezuela Venezuela has a history of governmental instability. In the event that extended labor strikes or turmoil occurs, the Company could experience shortages in material and supplies necessary to operate some or all of its Venezuelan drilling rigs. During the mid-1970s, the Venezuelan government nationalized the exploration and production business. At the present time it appears the Venezuelan government will not nationalize the contract drilling business. Any such nationalization could result in the Company’s loss of all or a portion of its assets and business in Venezuela. 10 10. Government Regulation and Environmental Risks Many aspects of the Company’s operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices and methods and the level of taxation. In addition, the United States and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. Drilling contractors may be liable for damages resulting from pollution. Under United States regulations, drilling contractors must establish financial responsibility to cover potential liability for pollution of offshore waters. Generally, the Company is indemnified under drilling contracts from liability arising from pollution, except in certain cases of surface pollution. However, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in foreign countries may be questionable. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting its operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. To date, compliance has not materially affected the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of the Company, although these measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. Additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on operations cannot be predicted. 11. Interest Rate Risk The Company has a $200 million intermediate-term unsecured debt obligation with staged maturities from August 2007 to August 2014, with varying fixed interest rates for each maturity series. There was $200 million outstanding at September 30, 2005, of which $25 million is due in 2007 and the remaining $175 million is due 2009 through 2014. The average interest rate during the next four years on this debt is 6.4 percent, after which it increases to 6.5 percent. The fair value of this debt at September 30, 2005 was approximately $215 million. At September 30, 2005, the Company had in place a committed unsecured line of credit totaling $50 million with no outstanding borrowings. The Company, as of September 30, 2005, had letters of credit totaling $14 million outstanding against such line of credit. The Company’s line of credit interest rate is based on LIBOR plus 87.5 to 112.5 basis points or prime minus 175 to 150 basis points based on the Company’s EBITDA to net debt ratio. As the Company draws on this line of credit, it is subject to the interest rates prevailing during the term at which the Company had outstanding borrowings. Interest rates could rise for various reasons in the future and increase the Company’s total interest expense, depending upon the amount borrowed against the credit line. 12. Equity Price Risk At September 30, 2005, the Company owned stocks in other publicly held companies with a total market value of $293.4 million. These securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the market value of the Company’s holdings. Except for the Company’s holdings in Atwood Oceanics, Inc., the portfolio is recorded at fair value on its balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of its balance sheet. Any reduction in market value would have an impact on the Company’s debt ratio and financial strength. In October 2004, the Company sold 1,000,000 shares of its position in Atwood Oceanics, Inc. as part of a 2,175,000 share public offering by Atwood. The sale generated $15.9 million ($0.31 per diluted share) of net income in fiscal 2005. The Company currently owns 2,000,000 shares of Atwood. 13. Reliance on Small Number of Customers In fiscal 2005, the Company received approximately 59 percent of its consolidated operating revenues from the Company’s ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 28 percent of its consolidated operating revenues from the Company’s three largest customers (including their affiliates). The Company believes that its relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of its larger customers would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 11 14. Key Personnel The Company utilizes highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting its businesses. In times of high utilization, it can be difficult to find qualified individuals. Although to date the Company’s operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain a sufficient number of qualified personnel could materially impact the Company’s results of operations. 15. Changes in Technologies Although the Company takes measures to ensure that it uses advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors’ equipment could make the Company’s equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep its equipment competitive. 16. Concentration of Credit The concentration of the Company’s customers in the energy industry could cause them to be similarly affected by changes in industry conditions and, as a result, could impact the Company’s exposure to credit risk. The Company cannot offer assurances that losses due to uncollectible receivables will be consistent with expectations. 