Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, we caution that the following "Risk Factors" could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A sluggish global economy may affect our business. As a result of recent volatility in oil and natural gas prices and substantial uncertainty in the capital markets due to the global economic recession and continuing sluggish global economic environment, we are unable to determine whether our customers will further reduce spending on exploration and development drilling or whether customers and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain their current reduced level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. The current global economic environment may continue to impact industry fundamentals and result in continued reduced demand for drilling rigs. These conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business. The contract drilling business is highly competitive. Competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability, efficiency, condition and type of equipment, reputation, operating safety, and customer relations. Competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. Land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. Although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, we have been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed us to secure drilling work even though we may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. We have continued to attempt to differentiate our services based upon our FlexRigs and our engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, safety and environmental awareness. This strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. Also, future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by our competitors could negatively affect our ability to differentiate our services. Our operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including weather. Our drilling operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts and well fires. These hazards could cause personal injury, suspend drilling operations, seriously damage or destroy the equipment involved and cause substantial damage to producing formations and the surrounding areas. Our offshore drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. Specifically, we operate several platform rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. The Gulf of Mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. Moreover, even if our platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. We have a new-build rig assembly facility located near the Houston, Texas ship channel. Also, our principal fabricator and other vendors are located in the gulf coast region. Due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. Fixed-term contracts may in certain instances be terminated without an early termination payment. Fixed-term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. However, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, our bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by us or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to us. Even if an early termination payment is owed to us, the the current global economic environment may affect the customer's ability to pay the early termination payment. 6 Table of Contents Our operations present risks of loss that, if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations. With the exception of "named wind storm" risk in the Gulf of Mexico, we insure rigs and related equipment at values that approximate the current replacement cost on the inception date of the policy. We self-insure a $1.0 million per occurrence deductible, as well as 10 percent of the estimated replacement cost of offshore rigs and 30 percent of the estimated replacement cost for land rigs and equipment. We have two insurance policies covering six offshore platform rigs for "named wind storm" risk in the Gulf of Mexico. The first policy covers four rigs and has a $55 million insurance limit over a $20 million deductible. We have been indemnified by a customer for $17 million of this deductible. The second policy covers two rigs and has a $40 million limit and a $3.5 million deductible. Rig property insurance coverage expires in May 2010. No insurance is carried against loss of earnings or business interruption. We are unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage; however, we are generally indemnified under our drilling contracts from this risk. We have insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation and employer's liability. Generally, casualty deductibles are $1 million or $2 million per occurrence, depending on whether a claim occurs inside or outside of the United States. We maintain certain other insurance coverages with deductibles as high as $5 million. Insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce our exposure to catastrophic events. We retain a significant portion of our expected losses under our worker's compensation, general liability and automobile liability programs. We record estimates for incurred outstanding liabilities for unresolved worker's compensation, general liability and for claims that are incurred but not reported. Estimates are based on adjuster estimates, historical experience or statistical methods that we believe are reliable. Nonetheless, insurance estimates include certain assumptions and management judgments regarding the frequency and severity of claims, claim development and settlement practices. Unanticipated changes in these factors may produce materially different amounts of expense that would be reported under these programs. No assurance can be given that all or a portion of our coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2010 or that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable. No assurance can be given that our insurance and indemnification arrangements will adequately protect us against all liabilities that could result from the hazards of our drilling operations. Incurring a liability for which we are not fully insured or indemnified could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of drilling equipment and supplies could adversely affect our operations. The contract drilling business is highly cyclical. During periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. These risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. Any such delays or shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations. Certain key rig components are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and we have no long-term contracts with many of these vendors. Shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. If we are unable to procure certain of such rig components, we would be required to reduce our rig construction or other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our principal fabricator, located on the Texas gulf coast, was unable or unwilling to continue fabricating rig components, then we would have to transfer this work to other acceptable fabricators. This transfer could result in significant delay in the completion of new FlexRigs. Any significant interruption in the fabrication of rig components could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Certain key rig components are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from us or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. These vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business, downturn in the energy industry or reduction or unavailability of credit. Therefore, disruptions in rig component delivery may occur, and such disruptions and terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices could negatively affect our financial results in the future. Our operations can be materially affected by low oil and gas prices. We believe that any significant reduction in oil and gas prices could depress the level of exploration and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in demand for our services. Worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and gas. Fluctuations during the last few years in the demand and supply of oil and gas have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. Any prolonged reduction in demand for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. International uncertainties and local laws could adversely affect our business. International operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in U.S. operations, including increased risks of terrorism, kidnapping of employees, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of a particular oil company operator's property and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, currency rate fluctuations and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. There can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue operations in certain areas. Because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. While we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable. Venezuela continues to experience significant political, economic and social instability. In the event that extended labor strikes occur or turmoil increases, we could experience shortages in labor and/or materials and supplies necessary to operate some or all of our Venezuelan drilling rigs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During the mid-1970s, the Venezuelan government nationalized the exploration and production business. At the present time it appears the Venezuelan government will not nationalize the contract drilling business. Any such nationalization could result in the loss of all or a portion of our assets and business in Venezuela. Although we attempt to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2009, approximately 13 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. During fiscal 2009, approximately 93 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in South America and approximately 57 percent of South American operating revenues were from Venezuela and Colombia. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign currency devaluation. General Contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in United States dollars, except for amounts required to meet local expenses. However, government-owned petroleum companies are more 8 Table of Contents frequently requesting that a greater proportion of these payments be made in local currencies. Based upon current information, we believe that exposure to potential losses from currency devaluation is immaterial in Colombia, Mexico, Equatorial Guinea, Trinidad and Tunisia. In those countries, all receivables and payments are currently in U.S. dollars. Cash balances are kept at an insignificant level which assists in reducing exposure. Argentina In 2002, Argentina suffered a 60 percent devaluation of the peso. We invoice in U.S. dollars and are paid in pesos equivalent to the dollar invoice. Our Argentine subsidiary remits the dollars to the parent by exchanging pesos through the Argentine Central Bank. The exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Argentine peso stayed within a narrow range for seven years and then devalued 27 percent during fiscal 2009, which resulted in our recording of a $2.2 million currency loss. Venezuela We are exposed to risks of currency devaluation in Venezuela primarily as a result of bolivar fuerte (Bsf) net working capital (current assets minus current liabilities) balances, which at fiscal year end 2009 was approximately $71.4 million U.S. dollar equivalent. While we are unable to predict the potential magnitude and timing of future devaluation in Venezuela, if current activity levels continue and if a 10 percent to 100 percent devaluation were to occur, we could experience potential currency devaluation losses ranging from approximately $6.6 million to $35.7 million. While the collection of the receivables is difficult and time consuming due to PDVSA policies and procedures, at this time we have no reason to believe the amounts owed will not be paid. Historically, PDVSA payments on accounts receivable have, by traditional business measurements, been slower than those of our other customers. However, the failure of PDVSA to make payments on outstanding receivables, or a continued increase in its delay in making payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government regulations and environmental laws could adversely affect our business. Many aspects of our operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices and methods and the level of taxation. In addition, the United States and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. Drilling contractors may be liable for damages resulting from pollution. Under United States regulations, drilling contractors must establish financial responsibility to cover potential liability for pollution of offshore waters. Generally, we are indemnified under drilling contracts from liability arising from pollution, except in certain cases of surface pollution. However, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in foreign countries may be questionable. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting our operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. To date, compliance has not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, although compliance measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. Additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on our operations cannot be predicted. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. We have in place a $400 million senior unsecured credit facility which expires in December of 2011. We had $70 million borrowed and two letters of credit totaling $21.9 million outstanding against the facility at September 30, 2009. As of November 20, 2009, borrowings under the facility had declined to $40 million. The interest rate on the borrowings is based on a spread over LIBOR and we pay a commitment fee based on the unused balance of the facility. The spread over LIBOR as well as the commitment fee is determined according to a scale based on a ratio of our total debt to total capitalization. We also have the option to borrow at the prime rate for maturities of less than 30 days. Interest rates could rise for various reasons in the future and increase our total interest expense, depending upon the amount borrowed against the credit lines. 9 Table of Contents Our securities portfolio may lose significant value due to a decline in equity prices and other market-related risks, thus impacting our debt ratio and financial strength. At September 30, 2009, we had a portfolio of securities with a total fair value of $360 million. These securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. Except for investments in limited partnerships carried at cost, the portfolio is recorded at fair value on our balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of our balance sheet. Any reduction in fair value would have an impact on our debt ratio and financial strength. At November 19, 2009, the fair value of the portfolio had increased to approximately $387 million. The loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In fiscal 2009, we received approximately 59 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 31 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our three largest customers (including their affiliates). We believe that our relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of our larger customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for experienced technical personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. We utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses. In times of high utilization, it can be difficult to find qualified individuals. Although to date our operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain a sufficient number of qualified personnel could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. New technologies may cause our drilling methods and equipment to become less competitive, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make our equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep our equipment competitive. 10 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2009 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 