ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere, the following, which have not been sequenced in any particular order, are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. The Company is subject to litigation. The Company is a defendant in numerous lawsuits that arise out of, and are incidental to, the current and past conduct of the Company’s business. These suits concern issues such as product liability, asbestos, environmental matters, contract disputes, labor-related matters, intellectual property, property damage and personal injury matters. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending suits and claims, the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material effect upon the Company’s financial position, operating results and cash flows. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a thorough discussion of the most significant legal matters. The Company is subject to environmental liabilities. The Company is subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations covering compliance matters or imposing liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances. Changes in these laws and regulations, or the interpretation thereof, could have a material effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Any failure by the Company to adequately comply with such laws and regulations could subject the Company to significant future liabilities, including fines and penalties. The Company has been identified as a potentially responsible party by U.S. federal and state authorities, or by private parties seeking contribution, for the cost of environmental investigation and/or cleanup at numerous sites. Actual costs to resolve these matters will depend on numerous factors, including the number of parties found responsible at each environmental site and their ability to pay; the actual methods of remediation required or agreed to; outcomes of negotiations with regulatory authorities; outcomes of litigation; changes in environmental laws and regulations; technological developments; the discovery of new information not known at this time; and the years of remedial activity required, which could range from zero to 30 years or longer. The ultimate resolution of such matters could have a material effect upon the Company’s financial position, operating results and cash flows. See Notes 12 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a thorough discussion of the most significant environmental matters. -7- Table of Contents The Company has significant leverage. As of December 31, 2006, the Company's total debt was $995.5 million, of which approximately 60% is fixed rate indebtedness. The Company's indebtedness has significant consequences. For example, it could: increase the Company's vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures; require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit the Company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industries in which it operates or in pursuing attractive business opportunities requiring debt financing; place the Company at a disadvantage to its competitors that have less debt; and limit the Company's ability to borrow additional funds due to restrictive covenants. The Senior Credit Facility and the indentures governing the 11.125% senior notes due 2007 and the 6.75% senior subordinated notes due 2029, which together account for $641.1 million of the Company's debt, contain numerous restrictive covenants, including, among other things, covenants that limit the Company's ability to: borrow money and incur contingent liabilities; make dividend or other restricted payments; use assets as security in other transactions; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter into new lines of business; issue and sell stock of restricted subsidiaries; sell assets or merge with or into other companies and make capital expenditures. In addition, the Senior Credit Facility requires the Company to meet financial ratios and tests, including maximum leverage and interest coverage levels. These restrictions could limit the Company's ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict corporate activities. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a thorough discussion of the Company’s indebtedness. The Company has unfunded liabilities with respect to certain pension and postretirement benefit plans. The projected benefit obligation of the Company’s U.S. defined benefit pension plan and postretirement benefit plan and certain foreign plans exceeds the fair value of plan assets. In addition, the assets and liabilities associated with the Company’s defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans are subject to interest rate and market risk. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description and related financial disclosures for the defined benefit pension and postretirement plans. The Company is subject to extensive competition. The global specialty chemicals industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, which could provide them with a competitive advantage. Also, the Company’s competitors have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, a reduction in prices for some of the Company’s products as a result of intensified price competition. Additionally, although the Company does not compete primarily on the basis of price, the Company’s customers are price sensitive. Accordingly, in periods where we are not able to pass on increased production costs, including those associated with the increasing prices of raw materials, gross margins may deteriorate. The Company is subject to technological change and innovation. Many of the Company’s products could be affected by technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. Accordingly, product innovation and new product development are integral to the Company’s strategy. Research and development efforts are directed towards the discovery and development of new products and processes, the improvement and refinement of existing products and processes, the development of new applications for existing products and cost improvement initiatives. There can be no assurance that product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture these new products or that we will be able to successfully market such products or that our competitors will not develop new products or technologies that compete with or reduce the market for our products or services. The Company is subject to supply constraints and price volatility with respect to raw material and energy. The Company acquires raw materials and energy from its vendors under a variety of short- and long-term contracts and supply agreements, depending upon various economic and logistical factors. The purchase prices are generally related to prevailing market conditions and are linked, in some cases, to relevant market indices. Changes in raw material and energy costs have historically had a material impact on the Company’s profit and cash from operations and are anticipated to continue to impact future periods similarly. Some of the Company’s customers are in cyclical industries. Some of the Company’s customers are in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and many are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. The demand for our products depends, in part, upon the general economic conditions of the markets of our customers. Downward economic cycles in our customers’ industries may reduce sales of our products. -8- Table of Contents The Company’s international operations are affected by global and regional conditions. The Company’s international operations are subject to risks, such as currency exchange controls, labor unrest, regional economic uncertainty, political instability, restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country, export duties and quotas, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs and current and changing regulatory environments. These events could have an adverse effect on our international operations in the future by reducing the demand for our products, increasing our costs or otherwise having an adverse affect on our results of operations. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations impact the Company’s financial performance. Our products are sold throughout the world and, as a result, currency fluctuations impact our financial performance. Our revenues in foreign countries are largely generated in foreign currencies, while costs incurred to generate those revenues are only partly incurred in the same currencies. We sometimes enter into hedging transactions to reduce the Company’s exposure to currency exchange risk, but such transactions cannot eliminate all of the risks associated with currency fluctuations. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company’s production facilities are subject to operating hazards. We are dependent on the continued operation of our production facilities. Such production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including pipeline leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, labor difficulties, transportation interruptions, remediation complications, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, storage tank leaks and other environmental risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 