ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere, the following, which have not been sequenced in any particular order, are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Indebtedness As of December 31, 2005, the Company's total debt was approximately $1,109.3 million, of which 64% is fixed rate indebtedness. The Company's indebtedness has significant consequences. For example, it could: increase the Company's vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures; require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit the Company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industries in which it operates or in pursuing attractive business opportunities requiring debt financing; place the Company at a disadvantage to its competitors that have less debt; and limit the Company's ability to borrow additional funds due to restrictive covenants. The Senior Credit Facility and the indentures governing the 11.125% senior notes due 2007 and the 6.75% senior subordinated notes due 2029, which together account for a large portion of the Company's debt, contain numerous restrictive covenants, including, among other things, covenants that limit the Company's ability to: borrow money and incur contingent liabilities; make dividend or other restricted payments; use assets as security in other transactions; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter into new lines of business; issue and sell stock of restricted subsidiaries; sell assets or merge with or into other companies and make capital expenditures. In addition, the Senior Credit Facility requires the Company to meet financial ratios and tests, including maximum leverage and interest coverage levels. These restrictions could limit the Company's ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict corporate activities. -7- The Company's ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of the Senior Credit Facility and the indentures governing the senior notes and to satisfy these and other debt obligations will depend upon the Company's current and future performance. The Company's performance is affected by general economic conditions and by financial, competitive, political, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control. The Company believes that the cash generated from its businesses will be sufficient to enable the Company to comply with the covenants and other terms of the Senior Credit Facility and the indentures governing the senior notes and to make debt payments as they become due. The Company and its subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had a $550 million Senior Credit Facility with a syndicate of banks. Under the Senior Credit Facility, the Company has a $150 million revolving credit agreement, which permits certain additional borrowings. In addition, the Company has the option to borrow an additional $250 million in the form of a term note under the Senior Credit Facility. If new indebtedness is added to the Company's current indebtedness levels, the risks described above could increase. Market Risk Fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates affect the Company's financial position and results of operations. The Company has used several strategies to actively hedge interest rate and foreign currency exposure and minimize the effect of such fluctuations on reported earnings and cash flow (see "Foreign Currency Translation" and "Derivative Instruments and Hedging" in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Sensitivity of the Company's financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices, which are reasonably possible over a one-year period, are described below. The market values for interest rate risk are calculated by the Company utilizing a third-party software that employs standard pricing models to determine the present value of the instruments based on the market conditions as of the valuation date. The Company's derivative and other financial instruments subject to interest rate risk consist substantially of debt instruments (see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). At December 31, 2005 and 2004, net market value of these combined instruments was a liability of $1,092.4 million and $1,265.2 million, respectively. The sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 100-basis point move in interest rates from their levels, with all other variables held constant. A 100-basis point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2005 and 2004 would result in a $59.1 million and a $69.8 million decrease, respectively, in the net market value of the liability. A 100-basis point decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2005 and 2004 would result in a $63.9 million and a $73.7 million increase, respectively, in the net market value of the liability. Our financial instruments subject to foreign currency exchange risk consist of foreign currency forwards and options and represent a net liability position of $0.2 million and a net asset position of $0.6 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The following sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates from year-end levels, with all other variables held constant. A 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies at December 31, 2005 and 2004 would result in a $0.1 million decrease and a $0.6 million increase, respectively, in the net position, while a 10% weakening of the dollar versus all currencies would result in a $0.1 million and a $0.8 million decrease, respectively, in the net position. Foreign exchange forward and option contracts have been used to hedge the Company's firm and anticipated foreign currency cash flows. Thus, there is either an asset or cash flow exposure related to all the financial instruments in the above sensitivity analysis for which the impact of a movement in exchange rates would be in the opposite direction and substantially equal to the impact on the instruments in the analysis. There are presently no material restrictions on the remittance of funds generated by the Company's operations outside the United States; however, in certain regions, primarily Latin America and Asia Pacific, there are general limitations on the repatriation of cash. The Company has not designated any derivative as a hedge instrument under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133") and, accordingly, changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in earnings. Commodity Price Risk The Company acquires raw materials and energy from its vendors under a variety of short-and long-term contracts and supply agreements, depending upon various economic and logistical factors. The purchase prices are generally related to prevailing market conditions and are linked, in some cases, to relevant market indices. Changes in raw material and energy costs have historically had a material impact on the Company’s profit and cash from operations and are anticipated to continue to impact future periods similarly. In order to mitigate these risks, the Company employs a variety of strategic sourcing techniques to minimize use of sole source suppliers, establish contracts that limit the frequency or magnitude of price increases, have alternate raw materials approved for use, selectively hedge certain strategic commodities, identify alternate suppliers in lower cost regions of the world, continually reassess its value chain, and aggressively counter suppliers’ attempts to increase costs. -8- New Product Development Product innovation and new product development are integral to the Company’s strategy. Research and development efforts are directed towards the discovery and development of new products and processes, the improvement and refinement of existing products and processes, the development of new applications for existing products and cost improvement initiatives. There can be no assurance that product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture these new products or that we will be able to successfully market these products. Environmental In the ordinary course of its business, the Company is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations covering compliance matters or imposing liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances. Changes in these laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations. Any failure by the Company to adequately comply with such laws and regulations could subject the Company to significant future liabilities. Environmental remediation expenses are funded from internal sources of cash. Such expenses, the most significant of which relate to non-operating or former sites, are not expected to have a significant effect on the Company's ongoing liquidity. Environmental cleanup costs, including capital expenditures for ongoing operating sites, are a normal, recurring part of operations and are not significant in relation to total operating costs or cash flows (see Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Notes 11 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Litigation Hercules is a defendant in numerous lawsuits arising out of, or incidental to, the conduct of its business. Such litigation typically falls within the following broad categories: environmental (discussed above); antitrust; commercial; intellectual property; labor and employment; personal injury; property damage; product liability; and toxic tort. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending matters, the ultimate resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material effect upon the Company’s financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows (see Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Notes 11 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Pension The assets and liabilities associated with the Company's defined benefit plans are subject to interest rate and market risk. A 100-basis point decrease or increase in the discount rate has an unfavorable or favorable impact of approximately $170 million on the U.S. defined benefit plan’s accumulated benefit obligation (“ABO”) and an unfavorable or favorable impact on its projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) of approximately $177 million. A 100-basis point decrease or increase in the assumed rate of return has an unfavorable or favorable impact of approximately $12 million on the estimated expense for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans in 2006 (see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). -9- ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 