Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the factors described below and other information contained in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or a significant part of your investment. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please refer to “Forward-Looking Statements” included elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to Recent Legal Proceedings For information regarding these matters, see Legal Proceedings beginning on page 18 and Note F on page F-18 of this Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business A significant percentage of our sales are under government contracts which are only partially funded initially and may lose funding or may be terminated in future years. Approximately 62%, 61% and 62% of our net sales for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were made to United States government agencies and their contractors and subcontractors for defense programs. We expect our sales to United States government agencies and their contractors and subcontractors to continue at the current level over the near future. Over its lifetime, a government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. The funding of government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Although multi-year contracts may be authorized in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The termination of funding for a government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Generally, government contracts contain provisions permitting the government agency to terminate the contract at its convenience, in whole or in part, without prior notice, and to provide for payment of compensation only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. We cannot guarantee that one or more of our government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. Also, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to procure new government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of termination of any contracts. Because a substantial part of our revenues are dependent on our procurement, performance and payment under our contracts, our failure to replace sales attributable to a significant defense program or contract at its termination, whether due to cancellation, spending cuts, budgetary constraints or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by differing priorities in U.S. Defense Spending, including budgetary constraints. We and other U.S. defense contractors have benefited from an upward trend in overall U.S. defense spending in the last few years. This trend continued with the former President’s budget request for fiscal year 2009, which reflected the continued commitment to modernize the Armed Forces and sustain current capabilities while prosecuting the war on terrorism. Future defense budgets and appropriations for our programs and contracts may be affected by possibly differing priorities of the current Administration, including budgeting constraints stemming from the economic recovery and stimulus plans. Although the ultimate size of future defense budgets remains uncertain, current indications are that overall defense spending will continue to increase over the next few years, albeit at lower rates of growth. However, government programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, must compete with other programs for consideration during the U.S. government’s budget formulation and appropriation processes, and may be impacted by the changes in general economic conditions. Budget decisions made in this environment may have long-term consequences for our size and structure and that of the defense industry. We believe that our programs are a high priority for national defense, but there remains the possibility that one or more of our programs will be reduced, extended or terminated. Reductions in our existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fixed-price contracts are common in all of our markets and may increase risks of cost overruns and product non-performance. Our customers set demanding specifications for product performance, reliability and cost. Most of our customer contracts are firm, fixed price contracts, providing for a predetermined fixed price for the products that we make, regardless of the costs we incur. Thus, we must make pricing commitments to our customers based on our expectation that we will achieve more cost effective product designs and automate more of our manufacturing operations. The manufacture of our products requires a complex integration of demanding processes involving unique technical skill sets. We face risks of cost overruns or order cancellations if we fail to achieve forecasted product design and manufacturing efficiencies or if products cost more to produce than expected or if products do not perform as forecasted. Operating income is adversely affected when we incur contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. This cost growth can occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties or delays, or workforce-related issues, or if initial estimates used for calculating the contract cost were incorrect. The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. A significant change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. The expense of producing products can rise due to increased cost of materials, components, labor, capital equipment or other factors. We may have cost overruns or problems with the performance or reliability of our products in the future which could negatively affect our profitability. We use estimates when accounting for contracts. Changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of our self-imposed efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Incentives, awards or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. Because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting and performance. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Part II, Item 7. Revenues from our contracts are primarily recognized when products are shipped. Approximately 95% of our contracts are firm, fixed price contracts, providing for a predetermined fixed price for the products sold, regardless of the costs incurred. Historically approximately 12% of our revenues are derived from long-term, fixed price contracts for which revenues and estimated profits are recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting on the cost to cost method. Under this method, revenue is recorded based upon the ratio that incurred costs to date bear to total estimated contract costs at completion with related cost of sales recorded as costs are incurred. Estimating costs at completion on these long-term contracts, particularly due to the technical nature of the contract requirements, is complex and involves significant judgment. Adjustments to original estimates are often required as work progresses, experience is gained and additional information becomes known, even though the scope of the work required under the contract may not change. Any adjustment as a result of a change in estimate is recognized as events become known. Due to the size of many of our contracts, changes in the underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could result in adjustments that may adversely affect future financial results. 12 Table of Contents Our earnings and margins depend, in part, on our ability to perform under contracts and on subcontractor performance as well as raw material and component availability and pricing. When negotiating contracts, management makes assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, which may extend over long periods. These projections may involve the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance, and the timing of product deliveries. If there is a significant change in one or more of these circumstances or estimates, or if we face unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of one or more of these contracts may be adversely affected. We also rely on other companies to provide raw materials and major components for our products and rely on subcontractors to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform some of the services that we provide to our customers. Disruptions or performance problems caused by our subcontractors and vendors could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. Our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more of the vendors or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we fail to win competitively awarded contracts in the future, we may experience a reduction in our sales, which could negatively affect our profitability. We obtain many of our U.S. Government contracts through a competitive bidding process. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to win competitively awarded contracts or that awarded contracts will generate revenues sufficient to result in our profitability. We are also subject to risks associated with the following: • the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design (which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns); • the substantial time and effort, including the relatively unproductive design and development required to prepare bids and proposals, spent for competitively awarded contracts that may not be awarded to us; • design complexity and rapid technological obsolescence; and • the constant need for design improvement Our government contracts may be subject to protest or challenge by unsuccessful bidders or to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending or other factors. In addition, failure to obtain a renewal or follow-on contract with U.S. Government or foreign governments would result in a loss of revenues. If revenues from the award of new contracts fail to offset this loss, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. U.S. Government contractors must comply with significant procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. If procurement requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins. United States agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The United States Government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s management, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, accounting, and information systems. Any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the United States Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. We are also, from time to time, subject to U.S. Government investigations relating to our operations and are expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws, including the Truth in Negotiations Act, the False Claims Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition, if we are found to have violated the law or are indicted or convicted for violations of federal laws related to government security regulations, employment practices or protection of the environment, or are found not to have acted responsibly, as defined by the law. Such convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracting for some period of time. Given our dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on us. 13 Table of Contents Our international sales and operations are subject to risks related to doing business in foreign countries. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, sales to international customers comprised approximately 34%, 33% and 33%, respectively, of our net sales, and we expect our international business to continue to account for a significant part of our revenues. We also currently maintain manufacturing facilities in the United Kingdom and Israel. Our two manufacturing facilities in Israel, as well as our international sales, are subject to numerous risks, including political, economic and restrictive trade policies of foreign governments, inconsistent product regulation by foreign agencies or governments, the complexity and necessity of using non-U.S. representatives and consultants, imposition of product tariffs and burdens and costs of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws and regulatory requirements. The governments of Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the United Kingdom are all significant customers. Our international sales also are subject to us obtaining any required export licenses for certain products and systems. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in international markets or that our international sales will be profitable. Substantially all of our revenues in fiscal 2010 at our domestic locations, and our operations in Israel, were denominated in U.S. dollars, and we intend to continue to enter into U.S. dollar-denominated contracts. Revenues reported at our EWST (U.K.) facility, which are primarily denominated in Pounds Sterling, account for approximately 2% to 4% of our consolidated net sales in U.S. dollars over the last three fiscal years. In addition, fluctuations in currency could adversely affect our customers, which may lead to delays in the timing and execution of orders. We rely on a small number of significant customers. A significant part of our sales have historically come from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. government. Net sales directly to the U.S. government accounted for 15% of fiscal year 2010 net sales. Additionally, approximately 47% of our net sales were attributable to our next five largest customers for fiscal year 2010, including Lockheed Martin Corporation and Northrop Grumman Corporation, each accounting for approximately 13% and 20%, respectively, of net sales in fiscal 2010. These customers also derive substantial portions of their revenues from contracts with agencies of, and in some cases as prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Therefore, our reliance on the U.S. Government as a customer, directly and indirectly through our customers, is substantial. Variations in the demand for our products by any of these direct and indirect customers could have a serious, adverse impact on our performance. If we were to lose any of these or any other major customers, or if orders by any major customer were otherwise to be delayed or reduced, including reductions due to market or competitive conditions in commercial markets or further decreases in government defense spending, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We have limited intellectual property rights. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary technology. We do not currently have any material patents. We rely principally on trade secret and copyright laws, certain employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements, as well as limited access to and distribution of proprietary information, in order to protect our technology. Trade secret laws afford us limited protection because they cannot be used to prevent third parties from reverse engineering and reproducing our products. Similarly, copyright laws afford us limited protection because copyright protection extends only to how an idea is expressed and does not protect the idea itself. Moreover, third parties could independently develop technologies that compete with our technologies. We cannot provide assurance that the obligations on the part of our employees and business partners to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary technology will prevent disclosure of such information by our employees or third parties. Litigation may be necessary for us to defend against claims of infringement or protect our proprietary technology, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. We cannot provide assurance that we would prevail in any such litigation. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe that our products and proprietary rights do not infringe on the patents and proprietary rights of third parties, we cannot provide assurance that infringement claims, regardless of merit, will not be asserted against us. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection of our proprietary technology may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. New accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect our financial results and financial position. Changes to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) arise from new and revised standards, interpretations and other guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and others. In addition, the United States Government may issue new or revised cost accounting standards or cost principles. The effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. Changes may result in unanticipated effects on our results of operations or other financial measures. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and our ongoing operations may expose us to environmental liabilities. Our operations are subject to federal, state, foreign and local environmental laws and regulations. As a result, we may be involved from time to time in administrative or legal proceedings relating to environmental matters. We cannot provide assurance that the aggregate amount of future clean-up costs and other environmental liabilities will not be material. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist. Enactment of more stringent laws or regulations or more strict interpretations of existing laws and regulations may require us to make additional expenditures, some of which could be material. Environmental laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. In addition, if we were found to be in violation of the Federal Clean Air Act or the Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the EPA on the “Excluded Parties List” maintained by the General Services Administration. The listing would continue until the EPA concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. Listed facilities cannot be used in performing any U.S. Government contract while they are listed by the EPA. We also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. A failure to attract and retain technical personnel could reduce our revenues and our operational effectiveness. There is a continuing demand for qualified technical personnel. We believe that our future growth and success will depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain such personnel. Competition for personnel in the defense industry is intense, and there are a limited number of persons, especially engineers, with knowledge of and experience in microwave technology. Our design and development efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified technical personnel. Although we currently experience relatively low rates of turnover for our technical personnel, the rate of turnover may increase in the future. An inability to attract or maintain a sufficient number of technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our contract performance or on our ability to capitalize on market opportunities. Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. We have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures to prevent and detect reckless or criminal acts committed by employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, competition and data privacy. However we cannot ensure that we will prevent all such reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners. Any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. The markets in which we operate are competitive. We operate in highly competitive markets. We anticipate higher competition in some of our core markets as a result of the reduction in budgets for many U.S. Government agencies and fewer new program starts. In addition, as discussed in more detail above, projected U.S. defense spending levels for periods beyond the near-term are uncertain and difficult to predict. Changes in U.S. defense spending may limit certain future market opportunities. Additionally, some customers, including the Department of Defense, are more frequently turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. If we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The competitive environment is also affected by an increase in bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. Bid protests could result in the award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. Even where a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, the resolution extends the time until the contract activity can begin which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise have commenced. Our historical defense markets and our more recent commercial markets are characterized by rapid technological change as new products are generally developed quickly and industry standards are constantly evolving. Thus, our products can become obsolete over a short period of time unless we succeed in remaining technologically innovative and in anticipating new market demands. 15 Table of Contents The defense industry in particular has experienced substantial consolidation due, among other things, to increasing pressures for cost reductions. This has substantially increased competitive pressures and introduced delays in contract funding and awards into our historical markets in the defense industry. Many of our competitors are larger than us and have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. As a supplier, we also experience significant competition from the in-house capabilities of our customers. We are facing increased international competition and cross-border consolidation of competition. Our ability to compete for defense contracts largely depends on the following factors: • our ability to offer better performance than our competitors; • the readiness of our facilities, equipment and personnel to undertake the programs for which we compete; and • the effectiveness and innovations of our research and development programs. We may encounter difficulties in effectively integrating acquired businesses. As part of our business strategy, we have augmented our technology base by acquiring companies with compatible or related products. Historically, we have acquired a number of such companies and products and have integrated those companies into our business. These and any future acquisitions we make will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies, which include, among other things: • potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; • higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses; • difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations and personnel of the companies, especially if the acquired operations are geographically distant; • potential disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management time and attention; • failure to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of acquired technology; • difficulties in adopting and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management; and • possible dilution to our shareholders. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any of our acquisitions. We may make a strategic acquisition knowing that the transaction may adversely affect our short-term profitability, perhaps because the acquisition candidate may be experiencing operating losses. We may believe that acquiring such a company outweighs the operating losses the candidate is experiencing and the losses that we expect to experience before being able to make the acquisition candidate profitable. The completion of such an acquisition in the future would negatively affect our profitability and may cause a decline in our stock price. While we believe we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate the risks of such an acquisition, there is no assurance that the transaction will be successful and not have a negative effect on profitability. Our backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation. Backlog represents products or services that our customers have committed by contract to purchase from us. Our backlog as of August 1, 2010, was approximately $187 million. Approximately 85% of this backlog is expected to be filled within twelve months. Our backlog is subject to fluctuations and is not necessarily indicative of future backlog or sales. Moreover, cancellations of purchase orders or reductions of product quantities in existing contracts could substantially and materially reduce our backlog and, consequently, future revenues. Our failure to replace canceled or reduced backlog could result in lower revenues. Risks Related to Our Securities Our stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so. A number of factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including: • our quarterly operating results or those of other defense companies; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts; • changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or defense industry; • natural disasters, terrorist attacks or acts of war; and • other developments affecting us or our competitors. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. 16 Table of Contents Market volatility and adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers. The financial and credit markets recently experienced levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. Historically, we have occasionally accessed these markets to support certain business activities including, acquisitions, capital expansion projects, refinancing existing debt and issuing letters of credit. In the future, we may not be able to obtain capital market financing or credit availability on similar terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The tightening of credit could also adversely affect our suppliers’ ability to obtain financing. Delays in suppliers’ ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing could cause us to be unable to meet our contract obligations and could adversely affect our results of operations. The inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. Our incorporation under Delaware law, the acceleration of the vesting of outstanding stock options, including options that we have granted upon a change in control, and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 