Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the factors described below and other information contained in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or a significant part of your investment. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please refer to "Forward-Looking Statements" included elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to Recent Legal Proceedings Class-action complaints against us could result in costly litigation and payment of damages. In 2006, we were served with several class-action complaints against us and certain of our officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The claims arise out of a since resolved criminal indictment by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in connection with certain government contracts and are made under Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. While we intend to vigorously defend against these actions, their ultimate outcome is presently not determinable. Thus, we cannot at this time determine the likelihood of an adverse judgment or a likely range of damages in the event of an adverse judgment. Any settlement of or judgment arising from such lawsuit could be material, and we cannot give any assurance that we would have resources available to pay such settlement or judgment. Additionally, any litigation to which we are subject may be costly and could require significant involvement of our senior management which may divert management's attention from our business and operations. For information regarding these matters, see Legal Proceedings beginning on page 16 and Note F on page F-19 of this Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business A significant percentage of our sales are under government contracts which are only partially funded initially and may lose funding or may be terminated in future years. Approximately 61%, 62% and 64% of our net sales for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were made to United States government agencies and their contractors and subcontractors for defense programs. Over its lifetime, a government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. The funding of government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Although multi-year contracts may be authorized in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The termination of funding for a government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Generally, government contracts contain provisions permitting the government agency to terminate the contract at its convenience, in whole or in part, without prior notice, and to provide for payment of compensation only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. We cannot guarantee that one or more of our government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. Also, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to procure new government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of termination of any contracts. Because a substantial part of our revenues are dependent on our 11 procurement, performance and payment under our contracts, our failure to replace sales attributable to a significant defense program or contract at its termination, whether due to cancellation, spending cuts, budgetary constraints or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by differing priorities in U.S. Defense Spending, including budgetary constraints. We and other U.S. defense contractors have benefited from an upward trend in overall U.S. defense spending in the last few years. This trend continued with the former President's budget request for fiscal year 2009, which reflected the continued commitment to modernize the Armed Forces and sustain current capabilities while prosecuting the war on terrorism. Future defense budgets and appropriations for our programs and contracts may be affected by possibly differing priorities of the current Administration, including budgeting constraints stemming from the economic recovery and stimulus plans. Although the ultimate size of future defense budgets remains uncertain, current indications are that overall defense spending will continue to increase over the next few years, albeit at lower rates of growth. However, government programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, must compete with other programs for consideration during our nation's budget formulation and appropriation processes, and may be impacted by the changes in general economic conditions. Budget decisions made in this environment may have long-term consequences for our size and structure and that of the defense industry. We believe that our programs are a high priority for national defense, but there remains the possibility that one or more of our programs will be reduced, extended, or terminated. Reductions in our existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fixed-price contracts are common in all of our markets and may increase risks of cost overruns and product non-performance. Our customers set demanding specifications for product performance, reliability and cost. Most of our customer contracts are firm, fixed price contracts, providing for a predetermined fixed price for the products that we make, regardless of the costs we incur. Thus, we must make pricing commitments to our customers based on our expectation that we will achieve more cost effective product designs and automate more of our manufacturing operations. The manufacture of our products requires a complex integration of demanding processes involving unique technical skill sets. We face risks of cost overruns or order cancellations if we fail to achieve forecasted product design and manufacturing efficiencies or if products cost more to produce than expected or if products do not perform as forecasted. The expense of producing products can rise due to increased cost of materials, components, labor, capital equipment or other factors. We may have cost overruns or problems with the performance or reliability of our products in the future which could negatively affect our profitability. If we fail to win competitively awarded contracts in the future, we may experience a reduction in our sales, which could negatively affect our profitability. We obtain many of our U.S. Government contracts through a competitive bidding process. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to win competitively awarded contracts or that awarded contracts will generate revenues sufficient to result in our profitability. We are also subject to risks associated with the following: o the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design (which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns); o the substantial time and effort, including the relatively unproductive design and development required to prepare bids and proposals, spent for competitively awarded contracts that may not be awarded to us; o design complexity and rapid technological obsolescence; and o the constant need for design improvement Our government contracts may be subject to protest or challenge by unsuccessful bidders or to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending or other factors. In addition, failure to obtain a renewal or follow-on contract with U.S. Government or foreign governments would result in a loss of revenues. If revenues from the award of new contracts fail to offset this loss, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. United States agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost 12 structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The United States Government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's management, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, accounting, and information systems. Any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the United States Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Our international sales are subject to risks related to doing business in foreign countries. In fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, sales to international customers comprised approximately 33%, 32% and 31%, respectively, of our net sales, and we expect our international business to continue to account for a significant part of our revenues. We currently maintain manufacturing facilities in the United Kingdom and Israel. Our two manufacturing facilities in Israel, as well as our international sales, are subject to numerous risks, including political and economic, restrictive trade policies of foreign governments, inconsistent product regulation by foreign agencies or governments, the complexity and necessity of using non-U.S. representatives and consultants, imposition of product tariffs and burdens and costs of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws and regulatory requirements. The governments of Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the United Kingdom are all significant customers. Our international sales also are subject to us obtaining any required export licenses for certain products and systems. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in international markets or that our international sales will be profitable. Substantially all of our revenues in fiscal 2009 at our domestic locations and our operation in Israel were denominated in U.S. dollars, and we intend to continue to enter into U.S. dollar-denominated contracts. Revenues reported at our EWST (U.K.) facility, which are primarily denominated in Pound Sterling, account for approximately 2% to 4% of our consolidated net sales in U.S. dollars over the last three fiscal years. In addition, fluctuations in currency could adversely affect our customers, which may lead to delays in the timing and execution of orders. We rely on a small number of significant customers. A significant part of our sales have historically come mainly from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. government. Net sales directly to the U.S. government accounted for 12% of fiscal year 2009 net sales. Additionally, approximately 42% of our net sales were attributable to our next five largest customers for fiscal year 2009, including Lockheed Martin Corporation and Northrop Grumman Corporation each accounting for approximately 13% and 16%, respectively, of net sales in fiscal 2009. Variations in the demand for our products by any of these direct and indirect customers could have a serious, adverse impact on our performance. If we were to lose any of these or any other major customers, or if orders by any major customer were otherwise to be delayed or reduced, including reductions due to market or competitive conditions in commercial markets or further decreases in government defense spending, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. We have limited intellectual property rights. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary technology. We do not currently have any material patents. We rely principally on trade secret and copyright laws, certain employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements, as well as limited access to and distribution of proprietary information, in order to protect our technology. Trade secret laws afford us limited protection because they cannot be used to prevent third parties from reverse engineering and reproducing our products. Similarly, copyright laws afford us limited protection because copyright protection extends only to how an idea is expressed and does not protect the idea itself. Moreover, third parties could independently develop technologies that compete with our technologies. We cannot provide assurance that the obligations on the part of our employees and business partners to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary technology will prevent disclosure of such information by our employees or third parties. Litigation may be necessary for us to defend against claims of infringement or protect our proprietary technology, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. We cannot provide assurance that we would prevail in any such litigation. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe that our products and proprietary rights do not infringe on the patents and proprietary rights of third parties, we cannot provide assurance that infringement claims, regardless of merit, will not be asserted against us. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection of our proprietary technology may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. New accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect our financial results and financial position. Changes to GAAP arise from new and revised standards, interpretations and other guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and others. In addition, the United States Government may issue new or revised cost accounting standards or cost principles. The effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. 13 Changes may result in unanticipated effects on our results of operations or other financial measures. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and our ongoing operations may expose us to environmental liabilities. Our operations are subject to federal, state, foreign and local environmental laws and regulations. As a result, we may be involved from time to time in administrative or legal proceedings relating to environmental matters. We cannot provide assurance that the aggregate amount of future clean-up costs and other environmental liabilities will not be material. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist. Enactment of more stringent laws or regulations or more strict interpretations of existing laws and regulations may require us to make additional expenditures, some of which could be material. A failure to attract and retain technical personnel could reduce our revenues and our operational effectiveness. There is a continuing demand for qualified technical personnel. We believe that our future growth and success will depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain such personnel. Competition for personnel in the defense industry is intense and there are a limited number of persons, especially engineers, with knowledge of and experience in microwave technology. Our design and development efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified technical personnel. Although we currently experience relatively low rates of turnover for our technical personnel, the rate of turnover may increase in the future. An inability to attract or maintain a sufficient number of technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our contract performance or on our ability to capitalize on market opportunities. The markets in which we operate are competitive. Our historical defense markets and our more recent commercial markets are characterized by rapid technological change as new products are generally developed quickly and industry standards are constantly evolving. Thus, our products can become obsolete over a short period of time unless we succeed in remaining technologically innovative and in anticipating new market demands. The defense industry in particular has experienced substantial consolidation due, among other things, to increasing pressures for cost reductions. This has substantially increased competitive pressures and introduced delays in contract funding and awards into our historical markets in the defense industry. Many of our competitors are larger than us and have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. As a supplier, we also experience significant competition from the in-house capabilities of our customers. We are facing increased international competition and cross-border consolidation of competition. Our ability to compete for defense contracts largely depends on the following factors: o our ability to offer better performance than our competitors; o the readiness of our facilities, equipment and personnel to undertake the programs for which we compete; and o the effectiveness and innovations of our research and development programs. We may encounter difficulties in effectively integrating acquired businesses. As part of our business strategy, we have augmented our technology base by acquiring companies with compatible or related products. Historically, we have acquired a number of such companies and products and have integrated those companies into our business. These and any future acquisitions we make will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies, which include, among other things: o potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; o higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses; o difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations and personnel of the companies, especially if the acquired operations are geographically distant; o potential disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management time and attention; o failure to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of acquired technology; o difficulties in adopting and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; o loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management; and o possible dilution to our shareholders. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any of our acquisitions. We may make a strategic acquisition knowing that the transaction may adversely affect our short-term profitability, perhaps because the acquisition candidate may be experiencing 14 operating losses. We may believe that acquiring such a company outweighs the operating losses the candidate is experiencing and the losses that we expect to experience before being able to make the acquisition candidate profitable. The completion of such an acquisition in the future would negatively affect our profitability and may cause a decline in our stock price. While we believe we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate the risks of such an acquisition, there is no assurance that the transaction will be successful and not have a negative effect on profitability. Our backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation. Backlog represents products or services that our customers have committed by contract to purchase from us. Our backlog as of August 2, 2009, was approximately $182 million. Approximately 80% of this backlog is expected to be filled within twelve months. Our backlog is subject to fluctuations and is not necessarily indicative of future backlog or sales. Moreover, cancellations of purchase orders or reductions of product quantities in existing contracts could substantially and materially reduce our backlog and, consequently, future revenues. Our failure to replace canceled or reduced backlog could result in lower revenues. Risks Related to Our Securities Our stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so. A number of factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including: o our quarterly operating results or those of other defense companies; o the public's reaction to our press releases, announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including developments with respect to class and derivative actions; o changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts; o changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or defense industry; o natural disasters, terrorist attacks or acts of war; and o other developments affecting us or our competitors. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide, among other things, for a classified board of directors serving staggered three-year terms. Our incorporation under Delaware law, the acceleration of the vesting of outstanding stock options including options that we have granted upon a change in control, and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of our common stock. 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 