Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The nature of our operations and the environment in which we operate subject us to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and technological conditions, risks and uncertainties. In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we note the following factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied herein. Many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “intend,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “should,” “planned,” “estimated” and “potential,” among others. Among the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements are the risk factors described below. Our ability to implement and generate expected ongoing annual savings from initiatives to advance our value enhancing strategy In July 2005, we announced initiatives intended to advance our value-enhancing strategy. These initiatives include a U.S. Voluntary Workforce Reduction Program (“VWRP”), facility rationalization and the streamlining and restructuring of our international operations, including a Canadian VWRP. We project that these initiatives will be fully implemented by December 31, 2006. These initiatives are expected to generate ongoing annual savings of approximately $45 million to $50 million when fully implemented. The savings will be reinvested in activities that will further the growth of our business, improve cash flows and enhance shareholder returns. Should ongoing annual savings fall short of expectations, we may not reap the anticipated benefits of our value-enhancing strategy. Changes in raw material and other costs and selling price increases We use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa, sugar, milk, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. Commodities are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, the quality and availability of supply, weather, currency fluctuations, speculative influences, trade agreements among producing and consuming nations, political unrest in producing countries, consumer demand and changes in governmental agricultural programs. Although we use forward contracts and commodity futures contracts to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. We may be able to pass some or all of the raw material and energy cost increases to customers in the form of higher product prices; however, higher product prices may also result in a reduction in sales volume. If we are not able to increase price realization and productivity to offset increased raw material costs, or if sales volume is significantly reduced, it could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to implement improvements to and reduce costs associated with the supply chain Further optimization of our supply chain is also essential to offset the potential for raw material and other cost increases discussed above. We have made significant improvements to the supply chain, consolidating our distribution network, exiting underperforming businesses and rationalizing the product line. Continued productivity initiatives such as these will be necessary to offset future cost increases and to enable potential expansion into adjacencies to our current product portfolio. Pension cost factors Changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our pension plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans. Additionally, employee decisions to withdraw lump sums could result in pension 7 settlement losses depending on the magnitude of such withdrawals. Although the fair value of our pension plan assets exceeded pension benefits obligations as of December 31, 2005, a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Stock price We are exposed to market risks arising from changes in the price of our Common Stock. Expenses for incentive compensation, stock options and certain employee benefits could increase due to an increase in the price of our Common Stock. Market demand for new and existing products We operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. Continued success is dependent on product innovation, including maintaining a strong pipeline of new products, effective sales incentives, appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs, and the ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail. In addition, success depends on our response to consumer trends, consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients, and changes in product category consumption and consumer demographics. Our largest customer, McLane Company, Inc., one of the largest wholesale distributors in the United States to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, accounted for more than 20% of total net sales in 2005 reflecting the continuing consolidation of our customer base. In this environment, there continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively. Marketplace competition The global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive, as is the broader snack market. In order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and continue to introduce and establish new products. Due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. In addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks as a result of competing for customers in a highly competitive retail environment. Governmental laws and regulations Changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter the environment in which we operate and, therefore, affect our results of operations or increase liabilities. These include changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws. It is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. International operations In 2005, we derived approximately 11% of our net sales from customers located outside the United States. In addition, portions of our total assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: • Unforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; 8 • Difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under, a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; • Different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; • Political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest; • Nationalization of our properties by foreign governments; • Tax rates that may exceed those in the United States and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; • Potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • The imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • Increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; and • The impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. Item 