Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves risks. The following information about these risks should be considered carefully together with the other information contained herein. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known or deemed immaterial also may result in adverse effects on our business. An adverse outcome in the ongoing antitrust litigation in which we are a defendant could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity. We are a defendant in several purported antitrust class action lawsuits. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The plaintiffs in these cases have alleged substantial damages, prior to trebling. The plaintiffs may elect to enforce any judgment against any or all of the codefendants, who have no statutory contribution rights against each other. Accordingly, if a class is certified in any of these cases and the plaintiffs prevail at trial, we could be subject to substantial liability. We may not be able to satisfy any such judgment or to post an appeal bond for the appeal of any such judgment. In that event, we could resort to bankruptcy proceedings. If we are able to satisfy a judgment or post an appeal bond, doing so may significantly impair our financial position and liquidity. In addition to the risks associated with an adverse outcome in this litigation, we continue to incur significant legal costs in the defense of this litigation and expect these increased costs to continue for the foreseeable future. Failure by us or our suppliers to comply with the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) regulations and similar foreign regulations applicable to the products we manufacture or distribute could expose us to enforcement actions or other adverse consequences. We design, manufacture, install and distribute medical devices that are regulated by the FDA in the United States and similar agencies in other countries. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in future product recalls, injunctions preventing shipment of products or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Additionally, certain of our suppliers are subject to FDA regulations, and the failure of these suppliers to comply with regulations could adversely affect us. Moreover, our moveable medical equipment rental business is subject to product modifications executed by us on behalf of original medical equipment manufacturers that can result in unanticipated costs and temporary product shortages. Additionally, regulatory actions taken by the FDA against those manufacturers can result in product shortages, recalls or modifications. Capital equipment sales and rental revenues may be adversely affected by Medicare and state government Medicaid funding cuts that could affect customers in every segment of our health care business. We could be subject to substantial fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business. Medicare, Medicaid and managed care organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations, traditional indemnity insurers and third-party administrators are increasing pressure to both control health care utilization and to limit reimbursement. Historical changes to Medicare payment programs from traditional “cost-plus” reimbursement to a prospective payment system resulted in a significant change in how our customers acquire and utilize our products. This has resulted in reduced utilization and downward pressure on prices. Similarly, future revenues and profitability will be subject to the effect of possible changes in the mix of our customers’ patients among Medicare, Medicaid, third-party and private payor categories, increases in case management and the review of services or reductions in coverage or reimbursement rates by such payors. A rising uninsured population (estimated by the U.S. Census Bureau to be 44.8 million) further exacerbates a challenging reimbursement environment for us. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, including numerous laws and regulations aimed at preventing fraud and abuse, governing participation of providers and suppliers in government health programs and requiring compliance with extensive and complex billing, collection, substantiation and record-keeping requirements. In addition, we are subject to periodic requests or audits to evaluate compliance with the requirements and standards of these government health programs. We expect program requests and audits to increase, as the federal government increases auditing and oversight resources and continues to increase pressure on state Medicaid programs to identify and recoup overpayments. From time-to-time, these activities and our own internal practices and compliance program have identified overpayments and other errors that resulted in refunds or self-reporting. If we are deemed to have violated these laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. While we believe that our practices materially comply with applicable state and federal requirements, the requirements may be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, even if inadvertent, could adversely impact our business. Changes in reimbursement programs or their regulation, including retroactive and prospective rate and coverage criteria changes and other changes intended to reduce the program expenditures, could adversely affect our third-party reimbursement business. Continued fluctuations in mortality rates and increased cremations may adversely affect, as they have in recent years, the volume of our sales of burial caskets. As the population of the United States continues to age, we anticipate the number of deaths in North America will be relatively flat for at least the foreseeable future. The life expectancy of U.S. citizens has increased steadily since the 1950s and is expected to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Cremations as a percentage of total U.S. deaths have increased steadily since the 1960s, and are also expected to continue to increase for the foreseeable future. The number of U.S. cremations is gradually and steadily increasing, resulting in a contraction in the demand for burial caskets, which contributed to lower burial casket sales volumes for us in each of fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007. We expect these trends to continue into the foreseeable future and our burial casket volumes will likely continue to be negatively impacted by these market conditions. Finally, the number of deaths can vary over short periods of time and among different geographical areas, due to, among other factors, the timing and severity of seasonal outbreaks of illnesses such as pneumonia and influenza. Such variations could cause our sales of burial caskets to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Future financial performance of our medical technology business will depend in part on the successful introduction of new products into the marketplace on a cost-effective basis. The financial success of new products could be adversely impacted by competitors’ products, customer acceptance, difficulties in product development and manufacturing, quality issues and warranty claims, certain regulatory approvals and other factors. The introduction of new products may also cause customers to defer purchases of existing products, which could have an adverse effect on sales. 18 Table of Contents Future financial performance of our medical technology business will depend in part on our ability to influence, anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences and needs. We cannot assure that our new products will achieve the same degree of success that has been achieved historically by our products. We may not correctly anticipate or identify trends in consumer preferences or needs, or may identify them later than competitors do. Any strategies we may implement to address these trends may prove incorrect or ineffective. In addition, difficulties in manufacturing or in obtaining regulatory approvals may delay or prohibit introduction of new products into the marketplace. Further, we may not be able to develop and produce new products at a cost that allows us to meet our goals for profitability, particularly since downward pressure on health care product prices is expected to continue. Warranty claims relating to our products may be greater than anticipated, and we may be required to devote significant resources to address any quality issues associated with our new products, which could reduce the resources available for further new product development. For example, as part of the tradeoff between clinical effectiveness and comfort, which is inherent in most clinical products, we have at times dedicated research and development efforts to improving the comfort and customer acceptance of certain of our products. These efforts, together with the foregoing focus on enhancing the competitiveness of our core products, have sometimes resulted in the dedication of new product development resources to sustaining development efforts. Failure to successfully introduce new products on a cost-effective basis, or delays in customer purchasing decisions related to evaluation of new products, could cause us to lose market share and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our medical technology and funeral service businesses are significantly dependent on several major contracts with large national providers and group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Our relationships with these customers and organizations pose several risks. The hospital group purchasing organization industry is rapidly changing and facing significant challenges as individual GPOs begin to modify their membership requirements and contracting practices, including conversion of sole-sourced agreements to agreements with multiple suppliers, in response to Congressional hearings and public criticism. Over the last several years, GPOs have come under increasing scrutiny regarding contracting practices, including Congressional hearings and proposed legislation. In response, the industry adopted numerous voluntary reforms. However, Congress is continuing to evaluate the need to advance legislation. In the interim, the GPO industry has moved to further strengthen its voluntary ethics initiative. It is difficult to ascertain when, or if, any legislation will be advanced. It is clear, however, that with or without legislation, the industry expects to see fewer sole and more dual and multi-source GPO agreements. The majority of Hill-Rom’s North American hospital sales and rentals are made pursuant to contracts with GPOs. A number of those GPO contracts came up for renewal during fiscal 2006 and 2007 and the majority were negotiated to be dual or multi-sourced. In some instances we have not been awarded contracts in specific product categories, primarily related to rental products. While difficult to precisely quantify or predict, these changes have and will continue to put pressure on Hill-Rom’s rental revenues. We are taking significant actions with respect to Hill-Rom’s rental business, which we expect will limit the future unfavorable annual revenue impact of the GPO contract changes, but there can be no assurance that these actions will be successful. To date, the financial impact of these changes on the capital side of our business has not been significant. At any given time, we are typically at various stages of responding to bids and negotiating and renewing expiring GPO agreements. Failure to be included in one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, including both capital and rental revenues. 19 Table of Contents Additionally, Batesville Casket has contracts with several large, national funeral home customers which comprise a sizeable portion of Batesville Casket’s overall sales volume. The November 2006 combination of Batesville Casket’s largest customer, Service Corporation International (“SCI”), and its second largest customer, Alderwoods Group, Inc. (“Alderwoods”), has brought purchases by both organizations under the same agreement. This agreement does not impose specific purchase requirements on the combined entity. While we anticipate that SCI will continue to buy substantially all its products from us for the foreseeable future, there can be no guarantee that SCI will do so. Any decision by our large national funeral home customers to discontinue purchases from us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we have lost, and may continue to lose, some business as the new SCI/Alderwoods combined entity continues to divest itself of certain overlapping properties. The losses from divestitures could be significant if a large number of these properties are purchased by funeral homes or other entities that currently do not purchase products from us and we are not able to attract replacement business from the subsequent owners of these properties. Finally, while our contracts with large health care and funeral service providers and GPOs provide important access to many of the largest purchasers of health care and funeral service products, they can obligate us to sell our products at contracted prices for extended periods of time, therefore limiting our ability, in the short-term, to raise prices in response to significant increases in raw material prices or other factors. Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials or sub-assemblies used in our products could adversely affect profitability or revenues. In particular, our results of operations continue to be adversely affected by high prices for steel, red metals, solid wood, plastic and fuel. Our profitability is affected by the prices of the raw materials and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of our products. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel related delivery costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and, in some cases, government regulation. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials or sub-assemblies that cannot be recovered through increases in the prices of our products could adversely affect our results of operations. While there has been less cost pressure in 2006 and 2007, we experienced significantly higher prices in fiscal 2004 and 2005 than we had in prior periods for commodities used in the manufacture of our products, including steel, red metals, solid wood, chemicals, fuel and petroleum-based products, such as foam and plastics. Although Batesville Casket, and Hill-Rom to a slightly lesser extent, has historically been able to offset such rising costs with increases in the prices of its products, there can be no assurance that the market place will continue to support the higher prices or that such prices will fully offset such commodity price increases in the future. Any further increases in prices resulting from a tightening supply of these or other commodities or fuel could adversely affect our profitability. We generally do not engage in hedging transactions with respect to raw material purchases, but do enter into fixed price supply contracts at times. Our decision not to engage in hedging transactions may result in increased price volatility, with resulting adverse effects on profitability. Our dependency upon regular deliveries of supplies from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. Several of the raw materials and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of our products currently are procured only from a single source. If any of these sole-source suppliers were unable to deliver these materials for an extended period of time as a result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities or other factors, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these sole-source suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs. Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material or sub-assembly could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more products for a period of time. 20 Table of Contents Our planned separation of our funeral service and medical technology businesses may not be completed. If the separation is completed, it may not achieve the intended benefits. In November 2007, our subsidiary Batesville Holdings, Inc. filed a Form 10 registration statement with the SEC related to the previously announced proposed separation of our medical technology and funeral service businesses. The separation remains subject to the final approval of our Board of Directors, favorable market conditions, formal tax opinions on select aspects of the transaction from legal counsel, the effectiveness of a registration statement for Batesville Casket’s parent with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and completion of necessary debt refinancing and other customary conditions. Additionally, we are continuing to consult with the SEC regarding the accounting treatment for a judgment sharing agreement that would apportion responsibility between the separated companies for any potential damages associated with antitrust litigation pending against Hillenbrand, its Batesville Casket Company subsidiary and three unrelated national funeral home businesses. If a probability-based analysis is required with respect to the accounting for the judgment sharing agreement, we will evaluate whether to pursue or delay the separation of the businesses or pursue other alternatives to increase shareholder value. For this and other reason, we cannot assure you that the separation will be completed. Execution of the separation will more than likely require significant time and attention of our management, which could distract management from the operation of our business and the execution of our other strategic initiatives. Further, if the separation is completed, it may not achieve the intended goal of value creation for our shareholders. Our strategic initiatives may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. In October 2006, we announced significant new operational strategies and initiatives for both of our operating companies. These strategies included making significant investments to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement. These investments adversely affected our profitability in fiscal 2007 and are expected to continue to do so in fiscal 2008. If we do not make these investments on an effective and timely basis or fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and operating cost reductions, and may experience business disruptions, associated with announced restructuring, realignment and cost reduction activities. Over the past few years, Hillenbrand has announced several restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including significant realignments of our businesses, employee terminations and product rationalizations in our North American rental business, continued restructuring, realignment and continuous improvement initiatives at our French manufacturing facility and plans to shift a portion of our manufacturing capacity to a facility in Mexico. These activities may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits we expect from these activities. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective. Product liability or other liability claims could expose us to adverse judgments or could affect the sales of our products. We are involved in the design, manufacture and sale of health care products, which face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products are alleged to have caused injury or are found to be unsuitable for their intended use. Any such claims could negatively impact the sales of products that are the subject of such claims or other products. We, from time-to-time, and currently, are a party to claims and lawsuits alleging that our products have caused injury or death or are otherwise unsuitable. It is possible that we will receive adverse judgments in such lawsuits, and any such adverse judgments could be material. Although we do carry insurance with respect to such matters, this insurance is subject to varying deductibles and self-insured retentions and may not be adequate to cover the full amount of any particular claim. 21 Table of Contents We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims, lawsuits and governmental proceedings relating to our operations, including environmental, antitrust, patent infringement, business practices, commercial transactions, and other matters. The ultimate outcome of these claims, lawsuits and governmental investigations cannot be predicted with certainty but could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are also involved in other possible claims, including product and general liability, workers compensation, employment-related matters and auto liability. While we maintain insurance for certain of these exposures, the policies in place are high-deductible policies resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to such claims. Our funeral service business is facing increasing competition from a number of non-traditional sources and caskets manufactured abroad and imported into North America. Non-traditional funeral service providers could present more of a competitive threat to us and our sales channel than is currently anticipated. While some of these have competed against us for many years, large discount retailers such as Costco, casket stores, and internet casket retailers represent more recent competitors. Also, we have learned that several manufacturers located in China are currently manufacturing caskets for sale into the United States. It is not possible to quantify the financial impact that these competitors will have on our business, but these competitors will continue to drive additional pricing and other competitive pressures in an industry that already struggles with excess capacity. Such competitive actions could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We may not be able to grow if we are unable to successfully acquire and integrate, or form business relationships with, other companies. Although we plan to grow certain of our businesses by acquiring or forming partnerships, joint ventures and alliances with other companies, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or business relationships, negotiate acceptable terms for such acquisitions or relationships or receive necessary financing for such acquisitions or relationships on acceptable terms. Moreover, once an acquisition, partnership, alliance or joint venture agreement is signed, various events or circumstances may either prevent the successful consummation of the contemplated acquisition or transaction, or make it unadvisable. In addition, we expect to compete against other companies for acquisitions. Therefore, if we are able to consummate acquisitions, such acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, and we could overpay for such acquisitions. Additionally, we may not be successful in our efforts to integrate acquired companies. Integration of acquired companies may divert management and other resources from other important matters, and we could experience delays or unusual expenses in the integration process. Further, we may become responsible for liabilities associated with businesses that we acquire to the extent they are not covered by indemnification from the sellers or by insurance. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. This effect could be exacerbated if any officers or other key personnel left as a group. Our success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. 22 Table of Contents Volatility in our investment portfolio or collection risk associated with our notes receivable and preferred stock could negatively impact earnings. Volatility in our investment portfolio of equity partnerships and certain other investments, which we carried at a value of $31.3 million as of September 30, 2007, could negatively impact earnings. The investment portfolio could be adversely affected by general economic conditions, changes in interest rates, default on debt instruments and other factors, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial condition. This was evident when one impairment of an investment resulted in an impairment charge of $8.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, and two additional impairments resulted in a charge of $2.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. In addition, we have outstanding notes receivable and preferred stock, which we carried at a value of $187.4 million as of September 30, 2007. This balance primarily represents the seller financing provided to FFS Holdings, Inc. (“FFS”), the entity that purchased our former Forethought Financial Services subsidiary, but also includes a number of notes with customers of Batesville Casket and Hill-Rom. Should Forethought fail to perform consistent with the original expectations set forth by FFS Holdings, Inc. or underperform to an extent that it cannot meet its financial obligations, or should general economic conditions or other factors result in defaults of our customer notes or our inability to recover value for our preferred stock in FFS, our earnings could be negatively impacted resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. Approximately 20 percent of our employees, as part of our logistics and manufacturing operations in the United States, work under collective bargaining agreements. We are also subject to various collective bargaining arrangements or national agreements outside the United States covering approximately 5 percent of our employees. Although we have not experienced any significant work stoppages in the past 20 years as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. Inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one of our principal facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports that remain unresolved. 23 Table of Contents 