Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves risks. The following information about these risks should be considered carefully together with the other information contained herein. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known or deemed immaterial also may result in adverse effects on our business. Failure by us or our suppliers to comply with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations and similar foreign regulations applicable to the products we manufacture or distribute could expose us to enforcement actions or other adverse consequences. Our health care businesses design, manufacture, install and distribute medical devices that are regulated by the FDA in the United States and similar agencies in other countries. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in future product recalls, injunctions preventing shipment of products or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our health care businesses. Additionally, certain of our suppliers are subject to FDA regulations, and the failure of these suppliers to comply with regulations could adversely affect us. For example, during the third quarter of fiscal 2005, the FDA announced that Vail Products was permanently ceasing the manufacture, sale, and distribution of all Vail enclosed bed systems. As a result, we recorded a $1.7 million impairment on the Vail enclosure beds in our Health Care rental fleet. 14 Table of Contents Capital equipment sales and rental revenues may be adversely affected by Medicare and state government Medicaid funding cuts that could affect customers in every segment of our health care business. We could be subject to substantial fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business. Medicare, Medicaid and managed care organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations, traditional indemnity insurers and third-party administrators are increasing pressure to both control health care utilization and to limit reimbursement. Historical changes to Medicare payment programs from traditional “cost-plus” reimbursement to a prospective payment system resulted in a significant change in how our health care customers acquire and utilize our products. This has resulted in reduced utilization and downward pressure on prices. Similarly, future revenues and profitability will be subject to the effect of possible changes in the mix of our patients among Medicare, Medicaid and third-party payor categories, increases in case management and review of services or reductions in coverage or reimbursement rates by such payors. A rising uninsured population (estimated by the U.S. Census Bureau to be 45.8 million) further exacerbates a challenging reimbursement environment for us. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, requiring compliance with extensive and complex billing, substantiation and record-keeping requirements. If we are deemed to have violated these laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. If we are not successful in our efforts to stabilize our Enterprise Resource Planning system with respect to Hill-Rom’s domestic rental business, our compliance with reimbursement laws and regulations and relationships with Medicare and Medicaid could be adversely affected. Continued declines and fluctuations in mortality rates and increased cremations may adversely affect, as they have in recent years, the volume of Batesville Casket’s sales of burial caskets. As the population of the United States continues to age, we anticipate the number of deaths in North America will be relatively flat to slightly declining for at least the foreseeable future. All factors indicate we experienced a slight decline in total deaths in fiscal 2005. The lower number of deaths appears to be a function of historic lower birth trends during the late 1920s and early 1930s and the long-term trend of a decreasing age-adjusted death rate, partially offset by immigration. The life expectancy of U.S. citizens has increased steadily since the 1950s and is expected to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Cremations as a percentage of total U.S. deaths have increased steadily since the 1960s, and are also expected to continue to increase for the foreseeable future. The number of U.S. cremations is currently growing faster than the increase in the number of U.S. deaths, resulting in a contraction in the demand for burial caskets, which contributed to lower burial casket sales volumes for Batesville Casket in each of fiscal year 2003, 2004 and 2005. Batesville Casket expects these trends to continue into the foreseeable future and Batesville Casket’s burial casket volumes will likely continue to be negatively impacted by these market conditions. Finally, death rates can vary over short periods of time and among different geographical areas. Such variations could cause Batesville Casket’s sales of burial caskets to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Future financial performance will depend in part on the successful introduction of new products into the marketplace on a cost-effective basis. The financial success of new products could be adversely impacted by competitors’ products, customer acceptance, difficulties in product development and manufacturing, certain regulatory approvals and other factors. The introduction of new products may also cause customers to defer purchases of existing products, which could have an adverse effect on sales. 15 Table of Contents Future financial performance will depend in part on our ability to influence, anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences and needs. We cannot assure that our new products will achieve the same degree of success that have been achieved historically by our products. We may not correctly anticipate or identify trends in consumer preferences or needs, or may identify them later than competitors do. Any strategies we may implement to address these trends may prove incorrect or ineffective. In addition, difficulties in manufacturing or in obtaining regulatory approvals may delay or prohibit introduction of new products into the marketplace. Further, we may not be able to develop and produce new products at a cost that allows us to meet our goals for profitability, particularly since downward pressure on health care product prices is expected to continue. Failure to successfully introduce new products on a cost-effective basis, or delays in customer purchasing decisions related to evaluation of new products, could cause us to lose market share and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our health care and funeral services businesses are significantly dependent on several major contracts with large national providers and group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Our relationships with these customers and organizations pose several risks. A majority of our contracts with the larger GPOs, which represent a significant portion of Hill-Rom’s sales and most of which are sole-source or dual-source contracts, will reach the end of their current terms during the next year. Given the industry trend toward multi-source GPO agreements and other factors, we will not be able to retain sole-source or dual-source status in all situations where we have expiring sole-source or dual-source agreements. If we are unable to retain current sole-source or dual-source positions in contracts with these GPOs, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The hospital group purchasing organization industry is rapidly changing and facing significant challenges as individual group purchasing organizations begin to modify their membership requirements and contracting practices, including conversion of sole sourced agreements to agreements with multiple suppliers, in response to recent Congressional hearings and public criticism. Over the past several years, there has been some industry concern regarding the overall financial condition of several of the national funeral service providers, and one such customer of Batesville filed for bankruptcy during the 2003 fiscal year. Although the bankruptcy of this customer did not by itself materially adversely affect our results of operations, should one or more additional national funeral service providers that are customers of Batesville file for bankruptcy, become insolvent or otherwise be unable to pay for Batesville’s products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, Batesville Casket has a sole-source contract with its largest national account that reaches the end of its current terms at the end of calendar year 2005, although that contract provides that purchases to fulfill volume commitments will continue through the first three quarters of fiscal 2006. This contract represents a material part of Batesville’s business. Batesville is currently in contract renewal negotiations with this account. The funeral services industry is becoming even more competitive given the excess capacity that exists in the industry, along with the introduction of foreign-sourced products. The results of these negotiations could result in some changes to our relationship with this account that may include a lower product line mix, a reduction in average net price, lower volume and/or a modification in sourcing provisions. Any combination of these items may have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, while our contracts with large health care and funeral services providers and GPOs provide important access to several of the largest purchasers of health care and funeral services products, they generally obligate us to sell our products within certain price parameters, therefore limiting our ability, in the short-term, to raise prices in response to significant increases in raw material prices or other factors. 16 Table of Contents Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials or finished goods used in our products could adversely affect profitability or revenues. In particular, our results of operations continue to be adversely affected by high prices for steel, red metals, solid wood, plastic and fuel. Our profitability is affected by the prices of the raw materials and finished goods used in the manufacture of our products. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and, in some cases, government regulation. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials or finished goods that could not be recovered through increases in the prices of our products could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, we experienced significantly higher prices in fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005 than we had in prior periods for steel, a principal raw material used in our funeral services products business and, to a lesser degree, our health care products business. In addition to steel, we have also experienced large price increases on other commodities used in the manufacture of our products, including red metals, solid wood and fuel. Although Batesville has historically been able to offset such price increases with increases in the prices of its products, there can be no assurance that our customers will be willing to pay the higher prices or that such prices will fully offset such price increases in the future. Any further increases in prices resulting from a tightening supply of steel, and/or other materials could adversely affect our profitability. We generally do not engage in hedging transactions with respect to raw material purchases, but do enter into fixed price supply contracts at times. Our decision not to engage in hedging transactions may result in increased price volatility, with resulting adverse effects on profitability. Our dependency upon regular deliveries of supplies from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. Several of the raw materials and finished goods used in the manufacture of our products currently are procured only from a single source. If any of these sole source suppliers were unable to deliver these materials for an extended period of time as a result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities or other factors, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these sole source suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs. Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material or finished good could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more products for a period of time. We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and operating cost reductions, and may experience business disruptions, associated with announced restructuring, realignment and cost reduction activities, including the restructuring activities announced in July and August 2005 and those of the prior year. These activities may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits we expect from these activities. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective. During the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we implemented the final phase of our Enterprise Resource Planning, or ERP, system with respect to Hill-Rom’s domestic rental business. Due to complexities and business process changes associated with this implementation, we made unplanned expenditures and have encountered a number of issues related to the start-up of the system, including improper billings to customers, customer disruptions and the loss of some business. In addition, improper billings are causing delays in 17 Table of Contents collections of rental receivables and could further increase the level of uncollectible amounts from our historic trends. There can be no assurance that the efforts to implement and stabilize our ERP system will be completed in the near future or without unplanned expenditures, or that we will not experience additional significant disruptions of our business. We continue to incur significant legal costs in the defense of antitrust litigation matters involving both Hill-Rom and Batesville Casket and expect these increased costs to continue for the foreseeable future. Moreover, if class certification is granted in any of these antitrust matters and the plaintiffs prevail at trial, our results of operations, financial position and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to negotiate a final agreement relating to the settlement of the Spartanburg antitrust litigation or that the court will approve any such settlement. Product liability or other liability claims could expose us to adverse judgments or could affect the sales of our products. We are involved in the design, manufacture and sale of health care products, which face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products are alleged to have caused injury or are found to be unsuitable for their intended use. Any such claims could negatively impact the sales of products that are the subject of such claims or other products. We from time to time, and currently, are a party to claims and lawsuits alleging that our products have caused injury or death or are otherwise unsuitable. It is possible that we will receive adverse judgments in such lawsuits, and any such adverse judgments could be material. We do, however, carry insurance with respect to such matters that are subject to varying deductibles and self-insured retentions, which would reduce our exposure to any individual claim. We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims and lawsuits relating to our operations, including environmental, antitrust, patent infringement, business practices, commercial transactions, and other matters. The ultimate outcome of these lawsuits cannot be predicted with certainty but could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are also involved in other possible claims, including product liability, workers compensation, employment-related matters and auto liability. While insurance is maintained for certain of these exposures, the policies in place are high-deductible policies resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to such claims. Our funeral services business is facing increasing competition from a number of non-traditional sources, including sales of competitors’ caskets through internet casket retailers and large retail discount stores, and caskets manufactured abroad and imported into North America. Non-traditional funeral services retailers could present more of a competitive threat to Batesville than is currently anticipated. While some of these have competed against Batesville for a number of years, large discount retailers such as Costco, which has recently begun selling competitors’ caskets, represent a more recent competitive development. Also, we have learned that several manufacturers located in China are currently manufacturing caskets for sale into the United States. It is not possible to quantify the financial impact that these competitors will have on Batesville’s business, but these competitors will continue to place additional pricing and other competitive pressures on Batesville that could have a negative impact on Batesville’s results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to grow if we are unable to successfully acquire and integrate other companies. Although we plan to grow certain of our businesses by acquiring other companies, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for such acquisitions or receive necessary financing for such acquisitions on acceptable terms. Moreover, once an acquisition agreement is signed, various events or circumstances may either prevent the successful consummation of the contemplated acquisition, or make it unadvisable. For example, shortly after the announcement of Batesville Casket’s proposed acquisition of Yorktowne, a preliminary order was granted by a court preventing Batesville Casket from further pursuing the proposed transaction until a final judgment or modification of the order, the timing of any of which is not certain. In addition, we expect to compete against other companies for acquisitions. If we are able to consummate acquisitions, such acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, and we could overpay for such acquisitions. Additionally, we may not be successful in our efforts to integrate acquired companies. Integration of acquired companies will divert management and other resources from other important matters, and we could experience delays or unusual expenses in the integration process. Further, we may become responsible for liabilities associated with businesses that we acquire to the extent they are not covered by indemnification from the sellers or by insurance. As a result of our recent consolidation of management functions at Hillenbrand corporate and Hill-Rom and other realignment initiatives, the potential risks to our business of our inability to retain key personnel may be magnified. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel, many of whom we have hired recently as part of our strategic initiative to ensure leadership excellence. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. This effect could be exacerbated if any officers or other key personnel left as a group. Our success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. Volatility in our investment portfolio or collection risk associated with our notes receivable portfolio could negatively impact earnings. Volatility in our investment portfolio with a book value of $71.5 million could negatively impact earnings. The investment portfolio, which includes equity partnerships among other investments, could be adversely affected by general economic conditions, changes in interest rates, default on debt instruments and other factors, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial condition. This is evident in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, when one significant impairment of a strategic investment resulted in an impairment charge of $8.7 million. In addition, we have outstanding long-term notes receivable of $134.4 million as of September 30, 2005. This balance primarily represents the seller financing provided to FFS Holdings, Inc., the entity that purchased Forethought, but also includes a number of notes with customers of Batesville Casket and Hill-Rom associated with amounts owed on product sales. Should Forethought fail to perform consistent with the original expectations set forth by FFS Holdings, Inc. or underperform to an extent that it cannot meet its financial obligations, or should general economic conditions or other factors result in defaults of our customer notes, our earnings could be negatively impacted resulting in an adverse impact on our financial condition. 19 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. As of September 30, 2005, we employed approximately 9,800 persons in our operations. Approximately 2,300 of these individuals, as part of our logistics and manufacturing operations in the United States, work under collective bargaining agreements. We are also subject to various collective bargaining arrangements or national agreements outside the United States. In the United States and Canada, the collective bargaining agreements have expiration dates ranging from February 2006 to August 2010. We have one collective bargaining agreement in Canada that will expire during the next twelve months. Although we have not experienced any significant work stoppages in the past 20 years as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. Inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one of our principal facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports that remain unresolved. 20 Table of Contents 