Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves risks. The following information about these risks should be considered carefully together with the other information contained herein. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known or deemed immaterial also may result in adverse effects on our business. Failure by us or our suppliers to comply with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations and similar foreign regulations applicable to the products we manufacture or distribute could expose us to enforcement actions or other adverse consequences. Our health care businesses design, manufacture, install and distribute medical devices that are regulated by the FDA in the United States and similar agencies in other countries. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in future product recalls, injunctions preventing shipment of products or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our health care businesses. Additionally, certain of our suppliers are subject to FDA regulations, and the failure of these suppliers to comply with regulations could adversely affect us. Moreover, our moveable medical equipment rental business is subject to product modifications executed by Hill-Rom on behalf of original medical equipment manufacturers that can result in unanticipated costs and temporary product shortages. Additionally, regulatory actions taken by the FDA against those manufacturers can result in product shortages, recalls or modifications. Capital equipment sales and rental revenues may be adversely affected by Medicare and state government Medicaid funding cuts that could affect customers in every segment of our health care business. We could be subject to substantial fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business. Medicare, Medicaid and managed care organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations, traditional indemnity insurers and third-party administrators are increasing pressure to both control health care utilization and to limit reimbursement. Historical changes to Medicare payment programs from traditional “cost-plus” reimbursement to a prospective payment system resulted in a significant change in how our health care customers acquire and utilize our products. This has resulted in reduced utilization and downward pressure on prices. Similarly, future revenues and profitability will be subject to the effect of possible changes in the mix of our patients among Medicare, Medicaid, third-party and private payor categories, increases in case management and the review of services or reductions in coverage or reimbursement rates by such payors. A rising uninsured population (estimated by the U.S. Census Bureau to be 45.8 million) further exacerbates a challenging reimbursement environment for us. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, including numerous laws and regulations aimed at preventing fraud and abuse, governing participation of providers and suppliers in government health programs and requiring compliance with extensive and complex billing, collection, substantiation and record-keeping requirements. In addition, we are subject to periodic requests or audits to evaluate compliance with the requirements and standards of these government health programs. We expect program requests and audits to increase, as the federal government increases auditing and oversight resources and continues to increase pressure on state Medicaid programs to identify and recoup overpayments. From time-to-time, these activities and our own internal practices and compliance program have identified overpayments and other errors that resulted in refunds or self-reporting. If we are deemed to have violated these laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as 16 Table of Contents Medicare and Medicaid. While we believe that our practices materially comply with applicable state and federal requirements, the requirements may be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, even if inadvertent, could adversely impact our business. Changes in reimbursement programs or their regulation, including retroactive and prospective rate and coverage criteria changes and other changes intended to reduce the program expenditures, could adversely affect our third-party reimbursement business. If we are not successful in our efforts to improve processes concerning our Enterprise Resource Planning system and the related business processes with respect to Hill-Rom’s domestic rental business, our compliance with reimbursement laws and regulations and relationships with Medicare and Medicaid could be adversely affected. Continued fluctuations in mortality rates and increased cremations may adversely affect, as they have in recent years, the volume of Batesville Casket’s sales of burial caskets. As the population of the United States continues to age, we anticipate the number of deaths in North America will be relatively flat to slightly declining for at least the foreseeable future. The life expectancy of U.S. citizens has increased steadily since the 1950s and is expected to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Cremations as a percentage of total U.S. deaths have increased steadily since the 1960s, and are also expected to continue to increase for the foreseeable future. The number of U.S. cremations is gradually and steadily increasing, resulting in a contraction in the demand for burial caskets, which contributed to lower burial casket sales volumes for Batesville Casket in each of fiscal years 2004, 2005 and 2006. Batesville Casket expects these trends to continue into the foreseeable future and Batesville Casket’s burial casket volumes will likely continue to be negatively impacted by these market conditions. Finally, death rates can vary over short periods of time and among different geographical areas, due to, among other factors, the timing and severity of seasonal outbreaks of illnesses such as pneumonia and influenza. Such variations could cause Batesville Casket’s sales of burial caskets to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Future financial performance will depend in part on the successful introduction of new products into the marketplace on a cost-effective basis. The financial success of new products could be adversely impacted by competitors’ products, customer acceptance, difficulties in product development and manufacturing, quality issues and warranty claims, certain regulatory approvals and other factors. The introduction of new products may also cause customers to defer purchases of existing products, which could have an adverse effect on sales. Future financial performance will depend in part on our ability to influence, anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences and needs. We cannot assure that our new products will achieve the same degree of success that has been achieved historically by our products. We may not correctly anticipate or identify trends in consumer preferences or needs, or may identify them later than competitors do. Any strategies we may implement to address these trends may prove incorrect or ineffective. In addition, difficulties in manufacturing or in obtaining regulatory approvals may delay or prohibit introduction of new products into the marketplace. Further, we may not be able to develop and produce new products at a cost that allows us to meet our goals for profitability, particularly since downward pressure on health care product prices is expected to continue. Warranty claims relating to our products may be greater than anticipated, and we may be required to devote significant resources to address any quality issues associated with our new products, which could reduce the resources available for further new product development. For example, as part of the tradeoff between clinical effectiveness and comfort, which is inherent in most clinical products, we have dedicated research and development efforts to improving the comfort and customer acceptance of certain of our products. These efforts, together with the foregoing focus on enhancing the competitiveness of our core products have resulted in the dedication of new product development resources to sustaining development efforts. 17 Table of Contents Failure to successfully introduce new products on a cost-effective basis, or delays in customer purchasing decisions related to evaluation of new products, could cause us to lose market share and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our health care and funeral services businesses are significantly dependent on several major contracts with large national providers and group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Our relationships with these customers and organizations pose several risks. A majority of Hill-Rom’s contracts with the larger GPOs, which represent a significant portion of Hill-Rom’s sales and most of which were sole-source or dual-source contracts, have reached or will reach the end of their current terms by the end of calendar 2006. Now that we have completed the majority of bid submissions and renewals, our results have confirmed our previously disclosed expectations that GPOs are moving significantly from sole-source agreements to dual and multi-source awards. In almost all instances our new or amended contracts with GPOs are dual or multi-source and, in some instances, we have not been awarded contracts in specific product categories, primarily related to rental products. While difficult to predict, these changes will put additional pressure on our rental revenues. We are taking significant actions with respect to our rental business, which we expect will limit the future unfavorable annual revenue impact of the GPO contract changes to approximately $25 million, but there can be no assurance that these actions will be successful. To date, the financial impact of these changes on the capital side of our business have not been significant. We are at various stages of responding to bids and negotiating some additional GPO agreements that, if awarded, will replace agreements that are set to expire in calendar 2007. Failure to be included in one or more of these agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business. The hospital group purchasing organization industry is rapidly changing and facing significant challenges as individual GPOs begin to modify their membership requirements and contracting practices, including conversion of sole-sourced agreements to agreements with multiple suppliers, in response to recent Congressional hearings and public criticism. Over the last several years, GPOs have come under increasing scrutiny regarding contracting practices, including Congressional hearings and proposed legislation. In response, the industry adopted numerous voluntary reforms. However, Congress is continuing to evaluate the need to advance legislation. In the interim, the industry has moved to further strengthen its voluntary ethics initiative. It is difficult to ascertain when, or if, any legislation will be advanced. It is clear, however, that with or without legislation, the industry will see fewer sole and more dual and multi-source GPO agreements. Additionally, Batesville Casket has contracts with a number of large, national funeral home customers. In fiscal 2006 we completed renegotiations of new supply agreements with two of these customers, Stewart Enterprises, Inc. and Carriage Services, Inc. In October of 2006, we completed negotiation of a new supply agreement with our largest customer, Service Corporation International (“SCI”). The announced completion of the combination of SCI and our second largest customer, Alderwoods Group, Inc. (“Alderwoods”) will bring purchases by both organizations under the same agreement. This agreement does not impose specific purchase requirements on the combined entity. While we anticipate that SCI will continue to buy substantially all its products from us for the foreseeable future, there can be no guarantee that SCI will do so. In addition, we likely will lose some business as this new combined entity divests itself of certain overlapping properties, assuming some of these properties are purchased by funeral homes or other entities that currently do not purchase products from us. The result of bringing Alderwoods purchases under the SCI agreement and their divestiture of numerous properties could have a material adverse effect on our financial results for 2007 and any decision by the SCI/Alderwoods combined entity not to purchase substantially all of its products from Batesville Casket would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents Finally, while our contracts with large health care and funeral services providers and GPOs provide important access to many of the largest purchasers of health care and funeral services products, they can obligate us to sell our products at contracted prices for extended periods of time, therefore limiting our ability, in the short-term, to raise prices in response to significant increases in raw material prices or other factors. Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials or sub-assemblies used in our products could adversely affect profitability or revenues. In particular, our results of operations continue to be adversely affected by high prices for steel, red metals, solid wood, plastic and fuel. Our profitability is affected by the prices of the raw materials and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of our products. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel related delivery costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and, in some cases, government regulation. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials or sub-assemblies that can not be recovered through increases in the prices of our products could adversely affect our results of operations. While there was less cost pressure in 2006, we experienced significantly higher prices in fiscal 2004 and 2005 than we had in prior periods for commodities used in the manufacture of our products, including red metals, solid wood, steel, chemicals, fuel and petroleum-based products, such as foam and plastics. Although Batesville Casket has historically been able to offset such rising costs with increases in the prices of its products, there can be no assurance that the marketplace will continue to support the higher prices or that such prices will fully offset such commodity price increases in the future. Any further increases in prices resulting from a tightening supply of these or other commodities or fuel could adversely affect our profitability. We generally do not engage in hedging transactions with respect to raw material purchases, but do enter into fixed price supply contracts at times. Our decision not to engage in hedging transactions may result in increased price volatility, with resulting adverse effects on profitability. Our dependency upon regular deliveries of supplies from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. Several of the raw materials and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of our products currently are procured only from a single source. If any of these sole-source suppliers were unable to deliver these materials for an extended period of time as a result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities or other factors, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these sole-source suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs. Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material or sub-assembly could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more products for a period of time. Our strategic initiatives may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. In addition, the possible separation of our two operating companies into two publicly traded companies may have adverse effects on us. In October 2006, we announced significant new operational strategies and initiatives for both of our operating companies. These strategies include making significant near-term investments to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement. We expect the funding of these investments to adversely affect our profitability in fiscal 2007. Moreover, if we do not make these investments on an effective and timely basis or fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth and margin improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Also in October 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors concluded that separating our current operations into two publicly traded companies merits further, more detailed consideration. Our Board of Directors has made no decision in this matter and may determine not to pursue any such transaction. If our Board of Directors determines to pursue the separation of our two operating companies, the separation may not achieve the intended goal of value creation for our shareholders. Further, any such transaction will require significant time 19 Table of Contents and attention of our management, which could distract management from the operation of our business and the execution of our other strategic initiatives. We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and operating cost reductions, and may experience business disruptions, associated with announced restructuring, realignment and cost reduction activities. Over the past two years, we have announced several restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including most recently a significant realignment of Hill-Rom’s businesses, employee terminations and product rationalizations in Hill-Rom’s North American rental business, and plans to shift a portion of Hill-Rom’s manufacturing capacity to a facility in Mexico. These activities may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits we expect from these activities. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective. We continue to incur significant legal costs in the defense of antitrust litigation matters involving both Batesville Casket and Hill-Rom and expect these increased costs to continue for the foreseeable future. Moreover, if class certification is granted in any of these antitrust matters and the plaintiffs prevail at trial, our results of operations, financial position and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Product liability or other liability claims could expose us to adverse judgments or could affect the sales of our products. We are involved in the design, manufacture and sale of health care products, which face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products are alleged to have caused injury or are found to be unsuitable for their intended use. Any such claims could negatively impact the sales of products that are the subject of such claims or other products. We, from time-to-time, and currently, are a party to claims and lawsuits alleging that our products have caused injury or death or are otherwise unsuitable. It is possible that we will receive adverse judgments in such lawsuits, and any such adverse judgments could be material. We do, however, carry insurance with respect to such matters that are subject to varying deductibles and self-insured retentions, which would reduce our exposure to any individual claim. We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims and lawsuits relating to our operations, including environmental, antitrust, patent infringement, business practices, commercial transactions, and other matters. The ultimate outcome of these lawsuits cannot be predicted with certainty but could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are also involved in other possible claims, including product liability, workers compensation, employment-related matters and auto liability. While insurance is maintained for certain of these exposures, the policies in place are high-deductible policies resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to such claims. Our funeral services business is facing increasing competition from a number of non-traditional sources, including sales of competitors’ caskets through internet casket retailers and large retail discount stores, and caskets manufactured abroad and imported into North America. Non-traditional funeral services retailers could present more of a competitive threat to Batesville Casket and its sales channel than is currently anticipated. While some of these have competed against Batesville Casket for a number of years, large discount retailers such as Costco, which have begun selling competitors’ caskets, represent a more recent competitive development. Also, we have learned that several manufacturers located in China are currently 20 Table of Contents manufacturing caskets for sale into the United States. It is not possible to quantify the financial impact that these competitors will have on Batesville Casket’s business, but these competitors will continue to drive additional pricing and other competitive pressures that could have a negative impact on Batesville Casket’s results of operations. We may not be able to grow if we are unable to successfully acquire and integrate, or form business relationships with, other companies. Although we plan to grow certain of our businesses by acquiring or forming partnerships, joint ventures and alliances with other companies, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or business relationships, negotiate acceptable terms for such acquisitions or relationships or receive necessary financing for such acquisitions or relationships on acceptable terms. Moreover, once an acquisition, partnership, alliance or joint venture agreement is signed, various events or circumstances may either prevent the successful consummation of the contemplated acquisition or transaction, or make it unadvisable. In addition, we expect to compete against other companies for acquisitions. And therefore, if we are able to consummate acquisitions, such acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, and we could overpay for such acquisitions. Additionally, we may not be successful in our efforts to integrate acquired companies. Integration of acquired companies will divert management and other resources from other important matters, and we could experience delays or unusual expenses in the integration process. Further, we may become responsible for liabilities associated with businesses that we acquire to the extent they are not covered by indemnification from the sellers or by insurance. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel, many of whom we have hired recently as part of our strategic initiative to ensure leadership excellence. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. This effect could be exacerbated if any officers or other key personnel left as a group. Our success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. Volatility in our investment portfolio or collection risk associated with our notes receivable portfolio could negatively impact earnings. Volatility in our investment portfolio with a book value of $64.3 million could negatively impact earnings. The investment portfolio, which includes equity partnerships among other investments, could be adversely affected by general economic conditions, changes in interest rates, default on debt instruments and other factors, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial condition. This is evident when one significant impairment of a strategic investment resulted in an impairment charge of $8.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, and two additional impairments resulted in a charge of $2.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. In addition, we have outstanding long-term notes receivable of $134.4 million as of September 30, 2006. This balance primarily represents the seller financing provided to FFS Holdings, Inc., the entity that purchased our former Forethought Financial Services subsidiary, but also includes a number of notes with customers of Batesville Casket and Hill-Rom associated with amounts owed on product sales. Should Forethought fail to perform consistent with the original expectations set forth by FFS Holdings, Inc. or underperform to an extent that it cannot meet its financial obligations, or should general economic conditions or other factors result in defaults of our customer notes, our earnings could be negatively impacted resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. Approximately 20 percent of our employees, as part of our logistics and manufacturing operations in the United States, work under collective bargaining agreements. We are also subject to various collective bargaining arrangements or national agreements outside the United States. In the United States and Canada, the collective bargaining agreements have expiration dates ranging from February 2007 to June 2010. Although we have not experienced any significant work stoppages in the past 20 years as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. Inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one of our principal facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports that remain unresolved. 22 Table of Contents 