Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves risks. The following information about these risks should be considered carefully together with the other information contained herein. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known or deemed immaterial also may result in adverse effects on our business. We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government health care reform, and we cannot predict how these reforms will impact our operating results. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted and President Obama signed into law comprehensive health care reform legislation through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act (H.R. 3590) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (H.R. 4872). Among other initiatives, these bills impose a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices beginning January 2013. We cannot predict with certainty what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the state level, or what the ultimate effect of federal health care reform or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, the impact of the tax, coupled with reform-associated payment reductions to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement (discussed below) could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental medical programs could reduce the reimbursement we receive for our products and services. Medicare, Medicaid and managed care organizations are increasing pressure to both control health care utilization and to limit reimbursement. Changes in reimbursement programs or their regulations, including retroactive and prospective rate and coverage criteria changes, competitive bidding for certain products and services, and other changes intended to reduce the program expenditures, could adversely affect our businesses dependent on third-party reimbursement. In addition, changes to the mix of our customers’ patients among Medicare, Medicaid, third-party and private payor categories, increases in case management, and the review of services or reductions in coverage or reimbursement rates may negatively impact our profitability to the extent such changes place downward pressure on the utilization or pricing of our products. Failure by us or our suppliers to comply with the FDA regulations and similar foreign regulations applicable to the products we manufacture or distribute could expose us to enforcement actions or other adverse consequences. We design, manufacture, install and distribute medical devices that are regulated by the FDA in the U.S. and similar agencies in other countries. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in future product recalls, injunctions preventing the shipment of products or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Additionally, certain of our suppliers are subject to FDA regulations, and the failure of these suppliers to comply with regulations could adversely affect us. Additionally, regulatory actions taken by the FDA against those manufacturers can result in product shortages, recalls or modifications. We could be subject to substantial fines or damages and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels governing the participation of durable medical equipment suppliers in federal and state health care programs. In addition, we recently entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the U.S. Federal government, which imposes on us additional contractual obligations. 8 Table of Contents From time to time, the government seeks additional information related to our claims submissions, and in some instances government contractors perform audits of payments made to us under Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal health care programs. On occasion, these reviews identify overpayments for which we submit refunds. At other times, our own internal audits identify the need to refund payments. We anticipate that the frequency and effectiveness of the government audits and review processes will intensify in the future, due to increased resources allocated to these activities at both the federal and state Medicaid level, and greater sophistication in data review techniques. If we are deemed to have violated these laws and regulations, or are found to have violated our Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be subject to substantial fines or damages and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. While we believe that our practices materially comply with applicable state and federal requirements, the requirements may be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, even if inadvertent, could have a material adverse impact on our business. We participate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to the risk of declining demand and pricing pressures, which could adversely affect our operating results. Demand for our products and services depends in large part on overall demand in the health care market. To the extent that aggregate demand does not grow, or does not grow rapidly enough, the competitive pressures in our industry could cause us to lose market share unless we increase our expenditures or reduce our prices, which would adversely impact our operating results. Moreover, the nature of this highly competitive marketplace demands that we successfully introduce new products into the market in a cost effective manner (more fully detailed below). These factors, along with others, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry's major participants, including us. Accordingly, if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors then our market share, sales and profitability could be adversely impacted through increased expenditures or decreased prices. Our future financial performance will depend in part on the successful introduction of new products into the marketplace on a cost-effective basis. Our future financial performance will depend in part on our ability to influence, anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences and needs. We can provide no assurances that our new products will achieve the same degree of success as in the past. We may not correctly anticipate or identify trends in consumer preferences or needs, or may identify them later than competitors do. In addition, difficulties in manufacturing or in obtaining regulatory approvals may delay or prohibit introduction of new products into the marketplace. Further, we may not be able to develop and produce new products at a cost that allows us to meet our goals for profitability. Warranty claims and service costs relating to our products may be greater than anticipated, and we may be required to devote significant resources to address any quality issues associated with our new products, which could reduce the resources available for further new product development and other matters. In addition, the introduction of new products may also cause customers to defer purchases of existing products. Failure to successfully introduce new products on a cost-effective basis, or delays in customer purchasing decisions related to the evaluation of new products, could cause us to lose market share and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Further adverse developments in general domestic and worldwide economic conditions and instability and disruption of credit markets could have further adverse affects on our operating results, financial condition, or liquidity. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of domestic and international credit markets. The credit and capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption over the past several years, leading to periods of recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending. These recessionary conditions caused customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services. If worldwide economic conditions worsen, we would expect our customers to scrutinize costs resulting from pressures on operating margin due to rising supply costs, reduced investment income and philanthropic giving, increased interest expense, reimbursement pressure, reduced elective healthcare spending and uncompensated care. 9 Table of Contents Our pension plans invest in a variety of equity and debt securities, including securities that have been adversely affected by the disruption in the credit and capital markets. Our pension plans were underfunded at September 30, 2011 by approximately $79 million. Market volatility and disruption could cause further declines in asset values or fluctuations in assumptions used to value our liability and expenses. If this occurs, we may need to make additional pension plan contributions and our pension expense in future years may increase. Our business is significantly dependent on major contracts with GPOs and integrated delivery networks (“IDNs”). A majority of our North American hospital sales and rentals are made pursuant to contracts with hospital GPOs. At any given time, we are typically at various stages of responding to bids and negotiating and renewing expiring GPO agreements. Failure to be included in certain of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, including capital and rental revenues. The contracting practices of GPOs change frequently to meet the needs of their member hospitals. GPOs often offer committed programs or standardization programs, where one supplier may be chosen to serve designated members that elect to participate in the program. Participation by us in such programs may require increased discounting or restrictions on our ability to raise prices, and failure to participate or to be selected for participation in such programs may result in a reduction of sales to the member hospitals. In addition, the industry is showing an increased focus on contracting directly with health systems or IDNs (which typically represents influential members and owners of GPOs). IDNs and health systems often make key purchasing decisions and have influence over the GPO’s contract decisions. This presents an opportunity to have more contracts directly with customers, but these customers may request additional discounts or other enhancements. Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials or sub-assemblies used in our products could adversely affect profitability or revenues. In particular, our results of operations have been and could be further adversely affected by high prices for metals, fuel, plastics and other petroleum based products. We also procure several raw materials and sub-assemblies from single suppliers. Our profitability is affected by the prices of the raw materials and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of our products. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel related delivery costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates, and government regulation. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials or sub-assemblies that cannot be recovered through increases in the prices of our products could adversely affect our results of operations. Although we have to some extent historically been able to offset such rising costs with increases in the prices of our products or other productivity gains, there can be no assurance that the market place will support higher prices or that such prices and productivity gains will fully offset any commodity price increases in the future. We generally have not engaged in hedging transactions with respect to raw material purchases, but do enter into fixed price supply contracts at times. Future decisions not to engage in hedging transactions or ineffective hedging transactions may result in increased price volatility, potentially adversely impacting our profitability. Our dependency upon regular deliveries of supplies from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. Several of the raw materials and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of our products currently are procured only from a single source. If any of these sole-source suppliers were unable or unwilling to deliver these materials for an extended period of time we may not be able to manufacture one or more products for a period of time, and our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs. Difficulties in the credit markets could adversely affect our suppliers’ access to capital and therefore their ability to continue to provide an adequate supply of the materials we use in our products. The majority of our products are manufactured at a single facility or location, and the loss of one or more of these facilities or locations could prevent us from manufacturing all the various products we sell. We manufacture the majority of our products in only a single facility or location. If an event occurred that resulted in material damage to one or more of these manufacturing facilities or otherwise prevented us from fully utilizing their manufacturing capabilities, we may be unable to transfer the manufacture of the relevant products to another facility or location in a cost-effective or timely manner, if at all. This potential inability to transfer production could occur for a number of reasons, including but not limited to a lack of necessary relevant manufacturing capability at another facility, or the regulatory requirements of the FDA or other governmental regulatory bodies. Such an event would materially negatively impact our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Our international sales and operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that vary by country which could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations. International sales accounted for approximately 31 percent of our net sales in fiscal 2011. We anticipate that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales in the future. In addition, we have multiple manufacturing facilities and third-party suppliers that are located outside of the U.S. As a result, our international sales, as well as our sales in the U.S. of products produced or sourced internationally, are subject to risks and uncertainties that can vary by country, such as political instability, economic conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in tax laws, regulatory and reimbursement programs and policies, and the protection of intellectual property rights. In addition, our collections of international receivables are subject to economic pressures and the actions of some governmental authorities to initiate various austerity measures to control healthcare spending. We are currently in the process of upgrading our Information Technology platform. We utilize a company-wide information technology (“IT”) platform that is currently in the process of being upgraded. This IT platform is integrated into substantially all of our company-wide operations, and materially impacts our manufacturing, sales, accounting and other back-office functionality. We may not successfully complete our current upgrade without diverting internal company resources from their current tasks, or hiring contractors. In addition, deployment of our upgrade may also adversely affect our sales, operating performance and the performance or reliability of our existing IT platform during the transition period. If we are unable to effectively manage the IT upgrade process, our future operating performance or cost structure may be negatively impacted. Our agreements with Hillenbrand, Inc. entered into in connection with the 2008 spin-off of our funeral services business may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. Certain agreements related to the separation of Hillenbrand, Inc. from us in 2008, including the Distribution Agreement, Judgment Sharing Agreement, Tax Sharing Agreement, Shared Services Agreements and Transitional Services Agreements, were prepared in the context of the separation and, accordingly, may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The terms of these agreements relate to, among other things, allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between us and Hillenbrand, Inc. Unfavorable outcomes related to uncertain tax positions could result in significant tax liabilities. We have recorded tax benefits related to various uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. While we believe our positions are appropriate, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), state or foreign tax authorities could disagree with our positions, resulting in a significant tax payment. We are also involved on an ongoing basis in claims, lawsuits and governmental proceedings relating to our operations, as well as product liability or other liability claims that could expose us to adverse judgments or could affect the sales of our products. We are involved in the design, manufacture and sale of health care products, which face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products are alleged to have caused injury or are found to be unsuitable for their intended use. Amongst other claims, we are, from time to time, a party to claims and lawsuits alleging that our products have caused injury or death or are otherwise unsuitable. It is possible that we will receive adverse judgments in such lawsuits, and any such adverse judgments could be material. Although we do carry insurance with respect to such matters, this insurance is subject to varying deductibles and self-insured retentions and may not be adequate to cover the full amount of any particular claim. In addition, any such claims could negatively impact the sales of products that are the subject of such claims or other products. In addition, we are currently involved in a number of claims, lawsuits and governmental investigations more thoroughly described in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The ultimate outcome of the various claims, lawsuits and governmental investigations in which we are involved cannot be predicted with certainty but could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to grow if we are unable to successfully acquire and integrate, or form business relationships with, other companies. We expect to grow our business in the future through mergers, acquisitions and other similar business arrangements. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or business relationships, negotiate acceptable terms for such acquisitions or relationships or receive necessary financing on acceptable terms. Additionally, we may become responsible for liabilities associated with businesses that we acquire to the extent they are not covered by indemnification from the sellers or by insurance. Even if we are able to consummate acquisitions, such acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, and we could overpay for such acquisitions. Additionally, we may not be successful in our integration efforts or fully realize expected benefits from the integration. Our integration efforts may divert management and other resources from other important matters, and we could experience delays or unusual expenses in the integration process, including intangible asset impairments which could result in significant charges in our Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss). We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel, and as competition for such personnel is intense, there can be no assurance that we can do so in the future. A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. Approximately 9 percent of our employees as part of our logistics and manufacturing operations in the U.S. work under collective bargaining agreements. We are also subject to various collective bargaining arrangements or national agreements outside the U.S. covering approximately 14 percent of our employees. The collective bargaining agreement at our primary U.S. manufacturing facility will expire in January 2013. Although we have not recently experienced any significant work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. Inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one of our principal facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports that remain unresolved. 12 Table of Contents 