Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves risks. The following information about these risks should be considered carefully together with the other information contained herein. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known or deemed immaterial also may result in adverse effects on our business. We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government health care reform. In addition, capital equipment sales and rental revenues may be adversely affected by Medicare and state government Medicaid funding cuts that could affect customers in every segment of our health care business. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the health care industry to fundamental changes. We anticipate that the current presidential administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of reducing health care costs and expanding access. The uncertainties regarding the final legislation and its implementation could continue to have an adverse effect on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. Any legislation enacted could represent opportunities and challenges. The potential exists that Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement in a variety of health care settings could be negatively impacted. Additionally, proposals to tax the sale of medical device technologies are being considered in Congress. The House of Representatives passed legislation that calls for a 2.5 percent sales-based excise tax beginning in 2013. The Senate is considering a market-share based excise tax of approximately $2 billion annually on medical device manufacturers beginning in 2010. At this juncture in the legislative process, it is not possible to determine the final magnitude of the tax or its precise structure and implementation. Negotiations are underway with the industry relative to these important details. However, should a medical device manufacturers’ tax be enacted into law its impact, along with the impact of health care reform to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement as well as other aspects of the various reform plans to our industry, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. At this time, we cannot predict with certainty which, if any, health care reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on us. In addition to health care reform, Medicare, Medicaid and managed care organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations, traditional indemnity insurers and third-party administrators are increasing pressure to both control health care utilization and to limit reimbursement. Changes in reimbursement programs or their regulation, including retroactive and prospective rate and coverage criteria changes and other changes, intended to reduce the program expenditures, could adversely affect our third-party reimbursement business. Historical changes to Medicare payment programs from traditional “cost-plus” reimbursement to a prospective payment system resulted in a significant change in how our customers acquire and utilize our products. This resulted in reduced utilization and downward pressure on prices. Similarly, future revenues and profitability will be subject to the effect of possible changes in the mix of our customers’ patients among Medicare, Medicaid, third-party and private payor categories, increases in case management and the review of services or reductions in coverage or reimbursement rates by such payors. Failure by us or our suppliers to comply with the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) regulations and similar foreign regulations applicable to the products we manufacture or distribute could expose us to enforcement actions or other adverse consequences. We design, manufacture, install and distribute medical devices that are regulated by the FDA in the United States and similar agencies in other countries. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in future product recalls, injunctions preventing the shipment of products or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Additionally, certain of our suppliers are subject to FDA regulations, and the failure of these suppliers to comply with regulations could adversely affect us. Moreover, our moveable medical equipment rental business is subject to product modifications executed by us on behalf of original medical equipment manufacturers that can result in unanticipated costs and temporary product shortages. Additionally, regulatory actions taken by the FDA against those manufacturers can result in product shortages, recalls or modifications. We could be subject to substantial fines or damages and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels governing the participation of durable medical equipment suppliers in federal and state health care programs. We are subject to numerous legal requirements related to supplying our products to patients, billing and claims submission processes, and our relationships to referral sources. 14 Table of Contents From time to time, the government seeks additional information related to our claims submissions, and in some instances government contractors perform audits of payments made to us under Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal health care programs. On occasion, these reviews identify overpayments for which we submit refunds. At other times, our own internal audits identify the need to refund payments. We anticipate that the frequency and effectiveness of the government audits and review processes will intensify in the future, due to increased resources allocated to these activities at both the federal and state Medicaid level, and greater sophistication in data review techniques. Federal and state fraud and abuse laws are also complex and numerous. In the durable medical equipment field, fraud and abuse risks arise most frequently in the claims submission process and in dealings with potential referral sources. With respect to the former, we have recently been advised of a qui tam (whistleblower) action filed against us in 2005 under the federal False Claims Act. We are not yet a party to that case, having not been served, and the government has not yet reached a decision as to whether or not to intervene in that matter. In the meantime, we are cooperating with the government in its investigation. Because qui tam (whistleblower) cases are filed under seal, there may be other whistleblower cases filed against us of which we are currently unaware. There is also a risk that the government itself would in the future file a False Claims Act case against us alleging improper claims activity. We are currently not aware of the existence of any such action or intention. Under federal (and many state) laws, it is a crime to offer or pay remuneration for the referral of any federal health care program business. These activities are prosecuted under the federal criminal anti-kickback statute and parallel civil authorities. Durable medical equipment suppliers’ relationships with physicians, home health agencies and other referral sources are subject to anti-kickback scrutiny. We are not aware of any pending investigation or enforcement action against us relating to these statutes. If we are deemed to have violated these laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or damages and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. While we believe that our practices materially comply with applicable state and federal requirements, the requirements may be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, even if inadvertent, could adversely impact our business. Our future financial performance will depend in part on the successful introduction of new products into the marketplace on a cost-effective basis. The financial success of new products could be adversely impacted by competitors’ products, lack of differentiation or willingness of customers to pay for such differentiation, customer acceptance, difficulties in product development and manufacturing, quality issues and warranty claims, certain regulatory approvals and other factors. The introduction of new products may also cause customers to defer purchases of existing products, which could have an adverse effect on sales. Our future financial performance will depend in part on our ability to influence, anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences and needs. We cannot assure that our new products will achieve the same degree of success that has been achieved historically by our products. We may not correctly anticipate or identify trends in consumer preferences or needs, or may identify them later than competitors do. Any strategies we may implement to address these trends may prove incorrect or ineffective. In addition, difficulties in manufacturing or in obtaining regulatory approvals may delay or prohibit introduction of new products into the marketplace. Further, we may not be able to develop and produce new products at a cost that allows us to meet our goals for profitability, particularly since downward pressure on health care product prices is expected to continue. Warranty claims and service costs relating to our products may be greater than anticipated, and we may be required to devote significant resources to address any quality issues associated with our new products, which could reduce the resources available for further new product development and other matters. For example, as part of the tradeoff between clinical effectiveness and comfort, which is inherent in most clinical products, we have at times dedicated research and development efforts to improving the comfort and customer acceptance of certain of our products. These efforts, together with the foregoing focus on enhancing the competitiveness of our core products, have sometimes resulted in the dedication of new product development resources to sustaining development efforts. Failure to successfully introduce new products on a cost-effective basis, or delays in customer purchasing decisions related to the evaluation of new products, could cause us to lose market share and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Further adverse developments in general domestic and worldwide economic conditions and instability and disruption of credit markets could have further adverse affects on our operating results, financial condition, or liquidity. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets. The credit and capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption over the past year, leading to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending. These recessionary conditions have caused customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services. While recent indicators suggest modest improvement in the United States and global economy, we cannot predict the timing or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more normalized spending behaviors. If the recessionary conditions continue or worsen, we would expect our customers to further scrutinize costs resulting from pressures on operating margin due to rising supply costs, reduced investment income and philanthropic giving, increased interest expense, reimbursement pressure, reduced elective health care spending and uncompensated care. Additionally, further disruption in the credit markets could impede our access to capital, which could be further adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our current credit ratings. Should we have limited access to additional financing sources, we may need to defer capital expenditures or seek other sources of liquidity, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms if at all. 15 Table of Contents Our pension plans invest in a variety of equity and debt securities, including securities that have been adversely affected by the recent disruption in the credit and capital markets. Our pension plans were underfunded at September 30, 2009 by approximately $93.4 million. Continued market volatility and disruption could cause further declines in asset value. If this occurs, we may need to make additional pension plan contributions and our pension expense in future years may increase. All of these factors related to the global economic situation, which are beyond our control, could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Our business is significantly dependent on major contracts with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs, and integrated delivery networks, or IDNs. Our relationships with these organizations pose several risks. A majority of our North American hospital sales and rentals are made pursuant to contracts with hospital group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”). At any given time, we are typically at various stages of responding to bids and negotiating and renewing expiring GPO agreements. Failure to be included in certain of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, including capital and rental revenues. The contracting practices of GPOs change frequently to meet the needs of their member hospitals. An emerging trend is for GPOs to offer committed programs or standardization programs, where one supplier may be chosen to serve designated members that elect to participate in the program. Participation by us in such programs may require increased discounting, and failure to participate or to be selected for participation in such programs may result in a reduction of sales to the member hospitals. In addition, the industry is showing an increased focus on contracting directly with health systems or IDNs (which typically represents influential members and owners of GPOs). IDNs and health systems often make key purchasing decisions and have influence over the GPO’s contract decisions. This presents an opportunity to have more contracts directly with customers, but customers may request additional discounts or other enhancements. GPOs, IDNs, and large health care providers have communicated that their member hospitals are under cost pressure, and they have increased their focus on pricing and on limiting price increases. Some of our sales contracts contain restrictions on our ability to raise prices, therefore limiting our ability, in the short-term, to respond to significant increases in raw material prices or other factors. Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials or sub-assemblies used in our products could adversely affect profitability or revenues. In particular, our results of operations continue to be adversely affected by high prices for metals, fuel, plastics and other petroleum based products. Our profitability is affected by the prices of the raw materials and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of our products. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel related delivery costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and, in some cases, government regulation. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials or sub-assemblies that cannot be recovered through increases in the prices of our products could adversely affect our results of operations. We experienced unprecedented higher prices in fiscal 2008 on numerous commodities, including metals, fuel, plastics and other petroleum based products, which continued throughout much of fiscal 2009. Although we have to some extent historically been able to offset such rising costs with increases in the prices of our products, there can be no assurance that the market place will continue to support the higher prices or that such prices will fully offset such commodity price increases in the future. Any further increases in prices resulting from a tightening supply of these or other commodities or fuel could adversely affect our profitability. We generally have not engaged in hedging transactions with respect to raw material purchases, but do enter into fixed price supply contracts at times. Future decisions not to engage in hedging transactions or ineffective hedging transactions may result in increased price volatility, with resulting adverse effects on profitability. 16 Table of Contents Our dependency upon regular deliveries of supplies from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. Several of the raw materials and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of our products currently are procured only from a single source. If any of these sole-source suppliers were unable or unwilling to deliver these materials for an extended period of time as a result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities or other factors, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these sole-source suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs. Disruption and volatility in the credit markets could adversely affect our suppliers’ access to capital and therefore their ability to continue to provide an adequate supply of the materials we use in our products. Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material or sub-assembly could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more products for a period of time. We face significant competition as a result of low cost competitors entering the market as well as consolidation among competitors, which could reduce our share of the market and our net sales. Competition could also cause us to increase expenditures or cause us to reduce our prices thereby negatively impacting our margins. Over the past several years, consolidation and the entrance of new low cost competitors has greatly increased competition in the United States and abroad. These companies have competed in all areas, but most effectively in our most price sensitive segments such as extended care. During the same time period, they have grown in size and scale. If we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our market share, sales and profitability could be adversely impacted. Our agreements with Hillenbrand, Inc. may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The agreements related to the separation of Hillenbrand, Inc. from us, including the Distribution Agreement, Judgment Sharing Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement, Tax Sharing Agreement, Shared Services Agreements and Transitional Services Agreements, were prepared in the context of the separation and, accordingly, may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The terms of these agreements relate to, among other things, allocation of assets, employees, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between us and Hillenbrand, Inc. For descriptions of these agreements, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The distribution of shares of Hillenbrand, Inc. stock to our shareholders or unfavorable outcomes related to uncertain tax positions could result in significant tax liabilities. We received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) that the distribution of shares of Hillenbrand, Inc. stock to our shareholders in connection with the separation of Hillenbrand, Inc. from us would qualify for tax-free treatment under Internal Revenue Code Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D). The IRS ruling relies on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our and Hillenbrand, Inc.’s businesses. Although we believe that all of these representations, assumptions and undertakings were correct, the IRS ruling would not be valid if the representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. Moreover, the IRS private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution will qualify for tax-free treatment, although we received an opinion of counsel with respect to the legal and tax issues not addressed in the private letter ruling. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling, the IRS could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling were false or had been violated. If the distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, we would be subject to tax as if we had sold the common stock of Hillenbrand., Inc. in a taxable sale for its fair market value and Hillenbrand, Inc.’s initial public shareholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of Hillenbrand, Inc.’s common stock that was distributed to them. We have also recorded tax benefits related to various uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. While we believe our positions are appropriate, the IRS could disagree with our positions, resulting in a significant tax payment. Our strategic initiatives may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. We have disclosed operational strategies and initiatives. These strategies include making significant investments to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets both organically and through strategic acquisitions. If we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions, associated with announced restructuring, realignment and cost reduction activities. Over the past few years we have announced several restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including significant realignments of our businesses, employee terminations and product rationalizations in North America, continued restructuring, realignment and continuous improvement initiatives at our French manufacturing facility and shifting a portion of our manufacturing capacity to a facility in Mexico, efforts to improve our medical equipment management services business and other streamlining initiatives. While we have started to realize the efficiencies of these actions, these activities may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits we expect. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective. Product liability or other liability claims could expose us to adverse judgments or could affect the sales of our products. We are involved in the design, manufacture and sale of health care products, which face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products are alleged to have caused injury or are found to be unsuitable for their intended use. Any such claims could negatively impact the sales of products that are the subject of such claims or other products. We, from time-to-time, and currently, are a party to claims and lawsuits alleging that our products have caused injury or death or are otherwise unsuitable. It is possible that we will receive adverse judgments in such lawsuits, and any such adverse judgments could be material. Although we do carry insurance with respect to such matters, this insurance is subject to varying deductibles and self-insured retentions and may not be adequate to cover the full amount of any particular claim. An adverse outcome in the ongoing antitrust litigation in which we are a defendant could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity. We are a codefendant with Batesville Casket Company, a subsidiary of Hillenbrand, Inc., and certain customers of Batesville, in a purported antitrust class action lawsuit. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The Federal District Court denied class certification in that matter, and the Fifth Circuit denied the plaintiffs’ petition to appeal. Further requests for reconsideration by the plaintiffs have also been denied. Despite these rulings, the plaintiffs may continue to seek reversal of the Fifth Circuit’s ruling by filing for an appeal with the United States Supreme Court or through other procedural avenues. Should the plaintiffs succeed in their efforts to obtain a reversal of the District Court order denying class certification and a class is certified in this matter and if the plaintiffs prevail at trial, the damages awarded to the plaintiffs, which would be trebled as a matter of law, could have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. In antitrust actions the plaintiffs may elect to enforce any judgment against any or all of our codefendants, who have no statutory contribution rights against each other. Although we have entered into a Judgment Sharing Agreement with Hillenbrand, Inc. intended to allocate any potential liability that may arise from this case and any other case that is consolidated with this case, there can be no assurance that Hillenbrand, Inc. will be able to satisfy its potential obligations under this agreement. Moreover, negative covenants contained in the Distribution Agreement related to the spin-off of Hillenbrand, Inc., intended to preserve the credit capacity of each of Hillenbrand, Inc. and us and to support our ability to perform our respective obligations under the Judgment Sharing Agreement, impose restrictions on us that, among other matters, limit our ability to use debt to consummate certain acquisitions, repurchase shares or pay dividends. For a description of the Judgment Sharing Agreement and the Distribution Agreement, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims, lawsuits and governmental proceedings relating to our operations, including environmental, antitrust, patent infringement, business practices, commercial transactions, and other matters. The ultimate outcome of the various other claims, lawsuits and governmental investigations in which we are involved cannot be predicted with certainty but could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are also involved in other possible claims, including product and general liability, workers compensation, employment-related matters and auto liability. While we maintain insurance for certain of these exposures, the policies in place are high-deductible policies resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to such claims. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to grow if we are unable to successfully acquire and integrate, or form business relationships with, other companies. Although we plan to continue to grow certain of our businesses by acquiring or forming partnerships, joint ventures and alliances with other companies, we expect to compete against other companies for acquisitions and may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or business relationships, negotiate acceptable terms for such acquisitions or relationships or receive necessary financing for such acquisitions or relationships on acceptable terms. Moreover, once an acquisition, partnership, alliance or joint venture agreement is signed, various events or circumstances may either prevent the successful consummation of the contemplated acquisition or transaction, or make it unadvisable. Additionally, we may become responsible for liabilities associated with businesses that we acquire to the extent they are not covered by indemnification from the sellers or by insurance. Therefore, if we are able to consummate acquisitions, such acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, and we could overpay for such acquisitions. Additionally, we may not be successful in our integration efforts or fully realize expected benefits from the integration. Our integration efforts may divert management and other resources from other important matters, and we could experience delays or unusual expenses in the integration process. Ineffective integration may also result in intangible asset impairments which could result in significant charges in our Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss). We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. This effect could be exacerbated if any officers or other key personnel left as a group. Our success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. In September 2009, we announced plans for the succession of Peter H. Soderberg, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We are currently engaged in a search for a new President and Chief Executive Officer to succeed Mr. Soderberg for which succession is anticipated to occur during 2010. Although our Board of Directors has taken steps to ensure an orderly succession, we cannot assure that we will be able to identify and hire a suitable successor in the anticipated time period or that the succession process will not cause disruptions in our business or other difficulties. If we are unable to convert our portfolio of auction rate securities to cash, our liquidity and earnings could be adversely affected. At September 30, 2009, we held $43.6 million of investment securities, which consisted primarily of AAA rated student loan auction rate securities. The market for auction rate securities, of which a key characteristic has historically been a high degree of liquidity, experienced auction failures in fiscal 2008 as the supply for auction rate securities in the market exceeded demand. Our portfolio of auction rate securities also experienced auction failures, effectively eliminating the liquidity of our holdings. Although currently we believe we have the ability and the intent to hold these assets until market conditions are more favorable or our investment advisors satisfy the conditions of certain announced settlements to repurchase these securities at par value, if current market conditions do not improve or worsen, or our advisors do not follow through on their repurchase commitments, the result could be further temporary unrealized losses or impairments, and liquidity and earnings could be adversely affected. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 19 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. Approximately 8 percent of our employees, as part of our logistics and manufacturing operations in the United States, work under collective bargaining agreements. We are also subject to various collective bargaining arrangements or national agreements outside the United States covering approximately 6 percent of our employees. Although we have not experienced any significant work stoppages in the past 40 years as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. Inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one of our principal facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations Beyond our existing union relationships, political influences are subjecting the labor arena to risk of potential instability as labor law reform legislation, coined the “Employee Free Choice Act (“EFCA”),” is presently being debated by Congress and the current presidential administration. The primary objective of EFCA is to replace secret ballot elections as the means by which most workers can choose union representation, with a process whereby unions can secure recognition by simply demonstrating that a majority of workers have signed cards authorizing the union to act as their representative. A secondary objective is to empower a government-appointed arbitrator to impose terms of a first collective bargaining agreement when management and labor are unable to reach agreement on all terms within a limited period of time. Various uncertainties exist regarding the features of EFCA and its implementation. Any labor law reform legislation enacted could pose challenges. The potential exists that these reforms could result in increased union organizing activity at our facilities which, in turn, could increase the changes of work stoppages. However, we continue to educate our non-represented work force on the potential impact of EFCA and unionization to manage the risks posed by these reform efforts. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports that remain unresolved. 