D. Risk Factors We operate in a broad range of business fields, conduct business on a global scale and utilize sophisticated, specialized technologies to carry on our operations. Therefore, we are exposed to risks attributable to the economic environment, risks inherent in individual industrial sectors and business lines and risks related to operations. Investments in our securities also involve risks. Although we have listed certain risks that may affect our businesses in this section, the list is not exhaustive. Other risks that are currently unknown or that are not currently considered as significant as those described in this section may also affect our businesses in the future. The items set forth in this section contain forward-looking statements as described in “Cautionary Statement.” Risks Related to Economic Environment The recent financial and credit crises and recessionary economies around the world adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. During the year ended March 31, 2010, the global economy emerged from the sharp deterioration triggered by the financial crisis and has shown continual signs of recovery since the latter half of the year. However, this recovery may be fragile and partially attributable to the effects of various government economic stimulus efforts. There is no guarantee that such stimulus efforts will continue or continue to be effective and without further government action deflationary pressures and other negative factors may hamper economic recovery. In Japan, a persistently strong yen against currencies such as the U.S. dollar and the euro has begun to and may continue to negatively affect corporate earnings and exports. Unemployment in Japan has remained at a relatively high level since early 2009 and chronic unemployment could negatively affect consumer spending and economic activity. Although, in terms of real GDP, the Japanese economy grew by 1.2%, or an annualized 5.0%, in the quarter ended March 31, 2010, such factors could stifle economic growth or result in a return to the negative growth of recent years. The global economic recovery may also be harmed by the fiscal crisis in Greece and other parts of Europe, which are contributing to unstable market conditions and a weakening of the euro against the yen, recent volatility in the global capital markets as well as the potential inability of emerging market economics to maintain economic growth. 4 Table of Contents Although our revenues improved in the Power Systems, Electronic Systems & Equipment and Financial Services segments, they declined in the remainder of our segments over the year ended March 31, 2010. Although we saw gradual recovery in revenues in the latter half of the year ended March 31, 2010 and the economic outlook for the year ending March 31, 2011 is comparatively positive, worsening market conditions could cause declines in revenues to continue or worsen in the future. Reduced product demand, lower average selling prices, manufacturing overcapacity and resulting impairment losses on long-lived assets characterized these downturns. If the recent gradual recovery in global economic conditions is halted or reversed, our revenues may decrease as mentioned above, with a resultant adverse impact on our profitability. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — D. Trend Information” for additional information. We operate on a global scale and as a result substantial portions of our assets and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate-related risks. Since we conduct business in many foreign countries, the portion of our assets and liabilities that are denominated in various currencies is exposed to risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, we sell products and purchase raw materials in local currencies, principally the U.S. dollar and the euro. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may result in lower revenues or higher costs in yen to us and thus affect our financial results, which are reported in Japanese yen. Our price competitiveness, and thus our financial results, may be harmed if we seek to increase prices in local currencies to compensate for lower revenues or to increase prices in yen to absorb the higher cost. While we take measures to reduce the risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, such measures may only delay or temporarily mitigate the adverse impact of such fluctuations and may not be effective. We rely on funding from banks, institutional lenders and the capital markets, and the global economic recession and the tightened credit market have affected our ability to obtain short-term and long-term financing. Our primary sources of funds are cash flows from operations, borrowings from banks and other institutional lenders, and funding from the capital markets, such as offerings of commercial paper and other debt securities as well as equity securities. We need liquid funds to pay operating expenses, principal of and interest on our debt, and dividends on our capital stock. We also need long-term financing to fund, among other things, capital expenditures and research and development expenses. We believe our cash flows from operations, borrowings from banks and other institutional lenders, and funding from the capital markets can provide sufficient funding for our operations and other liquidity needs. However, the global economic recession has adversely affected our cash flows from operations, business results and financial condition. Although our credit ratings have remained steady recently, the global economic recession has also had an adverse effect on our credit ratings. Moody’s Investor Services, Inc. downgraded our long-term credit rating from A1 to A2 in February 2009 and, in May 2009, further downgraded our long-term credit rating from A2 to A3 and our short-term credit rating from P-1 to P-2. In June 2009, Standard and Poor’s Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or S&P, downgraded our long-term credit rating from A- to BBB+. Also in June 2009, R&I downgraded our long-term credit rating from AA- to A+ and our short-term credit rating from a-1+ to a-1. Recent and potential future rating downgrades, in conjunction with uncertainty as to the stability of the financial markets, may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms we consider favorable. Even if we are able to obtain financing, our reliance on banks and institutional lenders exposes us to risks related to rising interest rates and we may need to increase our reliance on external sources of funding. An increased reliance on debt instruments may further adversely affect our credit ratings, which might further affect our ability to successfully obtain additional financing on terms we consider favorable. The inability to successfully obtain such financing may require us to reduce capital expenditures or spending on research and development, which could, in turn, impair our ability to remain competitive. 5 Table of Contents Furthermore, failure of one or more of our major lenders or a decision by one or more of them to stop lending to us could have an adverse impact on our access to funding. Additionally, unprecedented conditions in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect the availability of and cost of obtaining financing. We invest in marketable securities that are exposed to stock market risks. We invest in marketable securities to maintain or promote our business or other relationships with other companies. These marketable securities are exposed to the risk of declining stock market prices. The recent global economic recession has exacerbated such declines and has required, and may continue to require, that we write down equity securities that we hold. This has, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a number of equity method affiliates and their profits and losses affect our results of operations. We have a number of equity method affiliates. If one or more of these equity method affiliates records a loss during a given period we must record that loss in a manner proportionate to our ownership interest in our consolidated financial statements. For example, we recognized equity in net loss of affiliated companies in the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2010 primarily attributable to significant net losses recorded in those years by Renesas Technology Corp., our equity method affiliate. In addition, a decline in the fair value of our investments in these equity method affiliates below the carrying amount of the investments that is deemed other than temporary could require us to record an impairment loss. Further, contractual and other obligations may require us to maintain these securities despite declining share prices and this may lead to material losses. Risks Related to Industrial Sectors and Business Lines We are subject to intense competition in many of the markets in which we operate, and this may adversely affect our results of operations. The industrial sectors and business lines in which we are engaged are experiencing increasingly intense competition. We compete with diverse competitors ranging from huge global corporations to specialized companies. Competitors are increasingly manufacturing products, including sophisticated electronic products, in low-cost jurisdictions. Low-cost manufacturing and the globalization of the world markets have accelerated the commoditization of certain products, which has resulted in increasingly intense price competition for many of our products. Products which are facing intense price competition or decreases in prices include computer-related products, such as hard disk drives, or HDDs, disk array subsystems and optical disk drives, semiconductors, liquid crystal displays, or LCDs, digital media products such as flat-panel TVs and home appliances. To succeed in this competitive environment, we believe that our products and services must be price competitive. The commoditization of such products affects our ability to set prices for our products. If we are unable to charge comparable prices to those of our competitors, our competitiveness and overall profitability may be harmed. On the other hand, charging comparable prices to those of our competitors may require us to sell products at a loss. Our products must also be competitive in terms of engineering sophistication, quality and brand value. We must introduce our products and services to the markets in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that the products or services that we offer will be competitive. The failure of such products or services to be competitive may negatively affect our business results. Rapid technological innovation defines the industries in which we participate. New technologies are rapidly emerging in the segments in which we do business, with the pace of technological innovation being especially notable in the fields of information systems, electronics and digital media. The development of new and advanced technologies, the continuous, timely and cost-effective incorporation of such technologies into products and services, and the effective marketing of such products and services are indispensable to remaining competitive. While introducing such products and services requires a significant commitment to research and development, there can be no assurance that our research and development will be successful. Failure in our endeavors to develop and incorporate such advanced technologies into products and services in a timely manner, or to achieve market acceptance for such products and services, may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents We enter into a substantial number of long-term contracts, and fluctuations in cost during the lifetime of or cancellation of these contracts may adversely affect our business. We enter into a substantial number of long-term contracts, particularly in connection with the construction of nuclear, thermal and hydroelectric power plants. We use the percentage-of-completion method to recognize revenue from sales of tangible products under these long-term contracts. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we recognize revenue from a sale in an amount equal to estimated total revenue from the arrangement multiplied by the percentage that costs incurred to date bear to estimated total costs at completion based upon the most recently available information. The use of the percentage-of-completion method requires us to make significant assumptions about estimates of total contract costs, remaining costs to completion, total contract revenues, contract risks and other factors. We charge any anticipated losses on fixed price contracts to operations when we are able to estimate such losses. While we employ our best judgment based on available information, there can be no assurance that these estimates will, ultimately, prove to be correct. We regularly review these estimates and adjust them as we deem necessary. Fluctuations in costs can occur for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, we or our counterparties may cancel these contracts, which will require us to revise our initial assumptions regarding a particular contract, and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third parties to provide us with materials, parts, components and services and failure of such third parties to provide these materials may harm our business. Our manufacturing operations rely on third parties for supplies of materials, parts, components and services of adequate quality and quantity, delivered in a timely manner at a reasonable price. External suppliers may have other customers and may not have sufficient capacity to meet all of our needs during periods of excess demand. Shortages of materials, parts, components and services may cause a sharp rise in their prices. Prices of certain raw materials, parts and components that we purchase, such as petroleum products, copper, aluminum and semiconductor memory chips, are extremely volatile. Increases in the price of petroleum and other materials, such as copper, steel and synthetic resins, can increase our production costs and may adversely affect our results of operations. Conversely, decreases in commodity prices, such as for raw materials, parts and components, can result in write-downs of inventory. Although we generally maintain multiple sources of supply and work closely with our suppliers to avoid supply-related problems, such problems, including shortages and delays, may occur, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The supply and demand balance for particular products affects us. Oversupply in the markets in which we compete may lead to declines in sales prices, revenues and profits. In addition, adjustment to demand may force us to dispose of excess supply or obsolete equipment or reduce production, which can result in losses. For example, market demand for HDDs has been volatile, and unexpected decline in demand and oversupply could result in a sharp decline in unit prices of HDDs. The semiconductor industry and the LCD industry, in particular, are highly cyclical, and cyclical downturns are characterized by sharp declines in prices and overcapacity. Oversupply in the global markets may negatively affect these businesses, which are conducted primarily by our subsidiaries and affiliates. Risks Related to Operations We may be unable to achieve the anticipated benefits of our strategy to strengthen our Social Innovation Business. Our business strategy seeks to rebuild our business portfolio and achieve a stable and profitable business structure mainly by strengthening our Social Innovation Business, which supplies advanced social infrastructure supported by information and communication technology. We plan to devote significant resources to strengthen our Social Innovation Business, which we believe will allow us to exploit synergies across our information and telecommunication systems and social infrastructure businesses. To implement this strategy, we have incurred and may continue to incur considerable expenses. For example, we invested ¥255.6 billion in tender offers for five of our consolidated subsidiaries as an initial step to convert them into wholly owned subsidiaries and bolster our Social Innovation Business during the year ended March 31, 2010. We also adopted the Company System, under which we created virtual companies to reinforce our operating base and further strengthen our Social Innovation Business. Our strategy to strengthen our Social Innovation Business is predicated on our ability to coordinate our operations across group companies and segments, foster closer group ties and establish closer capital relationships among our group companies. Our efforts to implement this strategy may be unsuccessful or less successful than we currently anticipate. Even if these efforts are successful, there is no assurance that we will be able to return to profitability, and even if profitability is achieved, we may be unable to sustain or increase it on a quarterly or annual basis. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results — Business Strategy.” 7 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully divest or otherwise exit businesses that are underperforming, or implement other cost reduction measures. Our business strategy seeks to rebuild our business portfolio and achieve a stable and profitable business structure in part by: • closing unprofitable operations; • divesting our subsidiaries and affiliated companies; • reorganizing production bases and sales networks; • selling select assets; and • reducing our sales channels, fixed costs and procurement costs. Examples of these efforts include the reorganization of our Automotive Systems and Consumer Business Groups to form wholly owned subsidiaries, and the closing of our plasma display panel manufacturing facilities. Our restructuring efforts may not be implemented in a timely manner or at all, including due to governmental regulations, employment issues or a lack of demand in the M&A market for businesses we may seek to sell. In addition, we have a number of listed subsidiaries and from time to time the interests of these listed subsidiaries’ shareholders may conflict with our interests. Such conflicts of interest may result in difficulties in timely implementing group-wide policies, including mergers, corporate splits and other similar transactions to which the listed subsidiaries are parties. Restructuring efforts may also bring about unintended consequences, such as negative customer or employee perceptions, and have caused and may continue to cause us to incur significant expenses and other costs, including additional impairment losses on our long-lived assets and intangible assets, write-offs of inventory and losses on the disposal of fixed assets and losses related to the sale of securities. Current and future restructuring efforts may be unsuccessful or less successful than we presently anticipate and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not successfully execute our overseas growth strategies. We seek to expand our business, including our Social Innovation Business, in overseas markets as part of our business strategy. Through such overseas expansion, we aim to increase our revenues, reduce our costs and improve profitability. In many of these markets, we face barriers in the form of long-standing relationships between our potential customers and their local suppliers. In addition, various factors in foreign countries where we operate may adversely affect our overseas business activities. These factors include: • changes in regulations relating to investments, exports, tariffs, antitrust, anti-bribery, consumer and business taxation, intellectual property, foreign trade and exchange controls, environmental and recycling requirements; • differences in commercial and business customs such as contract terms and conditions; • labor relations; • public sentiment against Japan; and • other political and social factors as well as economic trends and currency exchange rate fluctuations. Because of these factors, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the initial aims of our overseas growth strategy. This may adversely affect our business growth prospects and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully complete or realize the benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances. In every operating sector, we depend to some degree on acquisitions of other companies, joint ventures and strategic alliances with outside partners to design and develop key new technologies and products and to strengthen competitiveness. For example, we recently engaged in several transactions, including entering into a joint venture with General Electric Company, or GE, and integrating our affiliate, Renesas Technology, with NEC Electronics Corporation. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results — Business Reorganization.” Such transactions are inherently risky because of the difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, products and personnel. Integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could adversely affect our business. Decisions made by or the performance of alliance partners that we cannot control or adverse business trends may also negatively affect the success of our alliances. We may incur significant acquisition, administrative and other costs in connection with these transactions, including costs related to integration or restructuring of acquired businesses. There can be no assurance that these transactions will be beneficial to our business or financial condition. Even assuming these transactions are beneficial, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses or achieve all or any of the initial objectives of these transactions. An inability to protect our intellectual property rights or to obtain certain intellectual property licenses, or our involvement in legal proceedings relating to intellectual property, may harm our business and prospects. We depend in part on proprietary technology and our ability to obtain patents, licenses, trademarks and other forms of intellectual property rights covering our products, product design and manufacturing processes in Japan and other countries. The fact that we hold such intellectual property rights does not ensure that they will provide a competitive advantage to us. Various parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that claims allowed on any future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Effective patent, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the markets in which we operate, and our trade secrets may be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, contractors and other persons. We design many of our products to include software or other intellectual property licenses from third parties. Competitors may not make their protected technology available to us, or may make it available to us only on unfavorable terms and conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain a license for such intellectual property if obtained, for economic or other reasons, or that such intellectual property will give us the commercial advantages that we desire. From time to time, we are sued or receive notices regarding patent and other intellectual property claims. Whether or not these claims have merit, they may require significant resources to defend against and may divert management attention from our business and operations and result in harm to our reputation. In addition, a successful infringement claim and our inability to obtain the license for the infringed technology or substitute similar non-infringing technology may adversely affect our business. We are subject to regulatory investigations, private litigation and governmental regulations that may result in substantial costs or otherwise harm our business. We face risks of litigation and regulatory investigation and actions in connection with our operations. Lawsuits, including regulatory actions, may seek recovery of very large, indeterminate amounts or limit our operations, and their existence and magnitude may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. For example, in the past several years, we have been the subject of investigations of alleged antitrust violations in Japan, Europe and North America. In December 2006, we and Hitachi Europe, Ltd. received requests for information from the European Commission in respect of alleged antitrust violations relating to LCDs. In June 2007, we received requests for information from the European Commission in respect of alleged antitrust violations relating to dynamic random access memories. In November 2007, Hitachi Electronic Devices (USA), Inc., a subsidiary of Hitachi Displays, received a grand jury subpoena in connection with an investigation conducted by the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice in respect of alleged antitrust violations relating to cathode ray tubes, or CRTs. In addition, in November 2007, our wholly owned subsidiaries, Hitachi Asia Ltd. and Hitachi Europe, received requests for information from the European Commission in respect of alleged antitrust violations relating to CRTs. Further, in November 2007, our subsidiary, Hitachi Canada Ltd., received requests for information from the Canadian Competition Bureau in respect of alleged antitrust violations relating to CRTs. In June 2009, our subsidiary, Hitachi-LG Data Storage, Inc., received a grand jury subpoena in connection with an investigation conducted by the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice and received requests for information from the European Commission, both in respect of alleged antitrust violations relating to optical disk drives. Also in June 2009, the Competition Commission of Singapore began an investigation of our subsidiary, Hitachi-LG Data Storage Korea, Inc., also in respect of alleged antitrust violations relating to optical disk drives. Relevant authorities in the markets in which we operate continue to investigate us and may initiate similar investigations in the future. These investigations may result in significant penalties in multiple jurisdictions, and private parties may bring civil actions against us seeking compensation for damages resulting from the relevant violations. Such substantial legal liability or regulatory action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation and credibility. See “Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings” for additional information. 9 Table of Contents In addition, our business activities are subject to various governmental regulations in countries where we operate, which include investment approvals, export regulations, tariffs, antitrust, anti-bribery, intellectual property, consumer and business taxation, foreign trade and exchange controls, and environmental and recycling requirements. These regulations do, and other new or amended regulations may further, limit our business activities or increase operating costs. In addition, the enforcement of such regulations, including the imposition of fines or surcharges for violation of such regulations, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial conditions, cash flows, reputation and credibility. See “Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings” for additional information. We may be subject to product liability claims that could result in significant direct or indirect costs. We increasingly provide products and services utilizing sophisticated and complicated technologies, including but not limited to components of nuclear power stations. Reliance on external suppliers reduces our control over quality assurance. There is a risk that defects may occur in our products and services. The occurrence of such defects could negatively affect our reputation for quality products, expose us to liability for damages caused by such defects and negatively affect our ability to sell certain products. Even a single significant product defect could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and future business prospects. In September 2008, Chubu Electric Power Co., Inc. filed a lawsuit with the Tokyo District Court against us seeking compensation for the breakdown of the turbine vanes in the nuclear reactors at Hamaoka Nuclear Power Station in the amount of ¥41.8 billion plus interest. In May 2009, Hokuriku Electric Power Company filed a lawsuit with the Tokyo District Court against us seeking compensation for the breakdown of the turbine vanes in the nuclear reactors at Shika Nuclear Power Station in the amount of ¥20.2 billion plus interest. Although we are vigorously defending ourselves in these lawsuits, there can be no assurance that we will not be liable for any amount claimed. See “Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings.” A substantial portion of our operations are conducted in Japan and earthquakes or other natural disasters or events may seriously disrupt them. Portions of our facilities, including our research and development facilities, manufacturing facilities and our headquarters, are located in Japan. Historically, Japan has experienced numerous natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons. If such significant natural disasters were to directly damage or destroy our facilities, it could disrupt our operations, delay new production and shipments of existing inventory or result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs, all of which would result in significant losses. Even if such significant natural disasters did not directly impact our facilities, they could result in disruptions in distribution channels or supply chains. The spread of infectious diseases such as the new flu virus may also disrupt our operations, render our employees unable to work, reduce consumer demand for our products or disrupt our distribution and supply channels. In addition, we are not insured against all potential losses and even losses that insurance covers may not be fully covered and may be subject to challenges of or delays in payment. Direct and indirect disruption of our operations as a result of natural disasters or other events may have a negative impact on our operating activities, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents We depend heavily on information systems and our inability to maintain the integrity of such information systems may adversely affect our business. With the increased importance of information systems to our operating activities, disruptions in such information systems due to computer viruses and other factors could have a negative impact on our operating activities, results of operations and financial condition. We maintain a large amount of sensitive information about ourselves as well as our customers and clients and our inability to maintain the confidentiality of such information may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and credibility. We keep and manage personal information obtained from our customers, as well as confidential information relating to our technology, R&D, production, marketing and business operations and those of our customers and clients, in various forms. Although we have implemented controls to protect the confidentiality of such information, there can be no assurance that such controls will be effective. Unauthorized disclosures of such information could subject us to complaints or lawsuits for damages or could otherwise have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and credibility. We are responsible for a significant amount of employee retirement benefit costs that are based on a number of assumptions. We have a significant amount of employee retirement benefit costs that we derive from actuarial valuations based on a number of assumptions. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions used in estimating pension costs including mortality, withdrawal and retirement rates, changes in wages, the discount rate and expected return on plan assets. We are required to make judgments regarding the key assumptions by taking into account various factors including personnel demographics, market conditions and expected trends in interest rates. Although management believes that its key assumptions are reasonable in light of the various underlying factors, there can be no assurance that the key assumptions will correspond to actual results. If our key assumptions differ from actual results, the consequent deviation of actual pension costs from estimated costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A decrease in the discount rate may result in an increase in the amount of the actuarial loss which we amortize into income over the service lives of employees. In addition, we may change these key assumptions, such as the discount rate or the expected return on plan assets. Changes in key assumptions may also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on specially skilled personnel and we may not be able to achieve our business objectives if we fail to attract, hire and retain such personnel. We believe we can continue to remain competitive only if we can maintain and secure additional people who are highly skilled in the fields of management and technology. However, the number of skilled personnel is limited and the competition for attracting and maintaining such personnel is intense. We cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully attract new or maintain our current skilled personnel. Risks Related to Our American Depositary Shares Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be more limited than under the law of other jurisdictions. The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to shareholders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the record holder of the shares underlying the American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”), only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying ADSs in accordance with the instructions of ADS holders and will pay dividends and distributions collected from us as and to the extent provided in the deposit agreement. However, ADS holders will not be able to bring derivative actions, examine our accounting books and records, or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. We are incorporated in Japan with limited liability. A significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be more difficult for investors to enforce against us judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or judgments obtained in other courts outside Japan. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Japanese courts, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. 11 Table of Contents Due to the unit share system available under Japanese law, your voting rights may be significantly restricted. The Companies Act allows companies to establish a “unit” of shares for the purpose of exercising voting rights at the general meetings of shareholders. Under our articles of incorporation, one unit of our shares is composed of 1,000 shares, equivalent to 100 ADSs. Each unit of our shares has one vote. A holder who owns shares or ADSs in other than multiples of 1,000 or 100, respectively, will own less than a whole unit (i.e., for the portion constituting fewer than 1,000 shares, or fewer than 100 ADSs). Our articles of incorporation, in accordance with the Companies Act, impose significant restrictions on the rights of holders of shares constituting less than a whole unit, which include restrictions on the right to vote, to attend a shareholders meeting and to bring derivative actions. In addition, less than whole unit shares cannot be traded on Japanese stock markets. Under the unit share system, holders of our shares constituting less than one unit have the right to require us to purchase their shares and the right to require us to sell them additional shares to create a whole unit of 1,000 shares. However, holders of our ADSs are unable to withdraw underlying shares representing less than one unit and, as a practical matter, are unable to require us to purchase those underlying shares. The unit share system, however, does not affect the transferability of ADSs, which may be transferred in lots of any number of whole ADSs. We may issue or sell additional shares in the future, which would result in a dilution of your shares. We may issue additional shares in the future within the unissued portion of our authorized share capital and sell shares held as treasury stock, generally without shareholder vote unless the subscription or sale price is significantly lower than the market price. Issuances and sales of our shares in the future may be at prices below the prevailing market prices and may be dilutive. The market price of our ADSs is subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. Market prices for our ADSs may fall if the value of the yen declines against the dollar. In addition, the amount of cash dividends or other cash payments made to holders of ADSs will decline if the value of the yen declines against the dollar. 