D. Risk Factors Hitachi operates in a broad range of business fields, conducts business on a global scale, and utilizes sophisticated specialized technologies to carry on its operations. It is therefore exposed to risks attributable to the economic environment, risks inherent in individual industrial sectors and business lines, and risks related to operations. Investments in Hitachi’s securities also involve risks. Although certain risks that may affect Hitachi’s businesses are listed in this section, the list is not exhaustive. Hitachi’s businesses may in the future also be affected by other risks that are currently unknown or that are not currently considered as significant as those described in this section. The items set forth in this section contain forward-looking statements as described in the “Cautionary Statement” in this annual report. Certain of the risk factors that may affect Hitachi are set out below. Risks Related to Economic Environment Economic trends Decreases in consumer spending and private-sector plant and equipment investment due to economic downturns in Japan, Asia, North America, Europe and other major markets where Hitachi does business, or direct or indirect restrictions on imports by other nations, may negatively impact Hitachi’s business results by reducing demand and increasing price competition for the products and services Hitachi offers. In addition, the adverse economic environment may result in increased risks of excess inventories and overcapacities, and further restructuring measures by Hitachi, which could involve associated expenses. Currency exchange rate fluctuations Since Hitachi conducts business in many foreign countries, the portion of its assets and liabilities that are denominated in various currencies is exposed to risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, Hitachi exports products and imports raw materials in local currencies, principally the U.S. dollar and the euro. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect Hitachi’s financial results, which are reported in Japanese yen. A strong yen, for example, reduces the price competitiveness of products exported to foreign markets and diminishes profit by decreasing revenues. While Hitachi takes measures to reduce the risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, there can be no assurance that such measures will succeed. 2 Table of Contents Risks Related to Industrial Sectors and Business Lines Intense competition The industrial sectors and business lines in which Hitachi is engaged are experiencing increasingly intense competition. Hitachi competes with diverse competitors ranging from huge global corporations to specialized companies. Competitors are increasingly manufacturing products, including sophisticated electronic products, in low-cost jurisdictions. Low cost manufacturing and the globalization of the world markets have accelerated the commoditization of certain products, which has resulted in increasingly intense price competition for many of Hitachi’s products. Products which are facing intense price competition or decreases in prices include computer-related products, such as hard disk drives, disk array subsystems and optical disk drives, semiconductors, liquid crystal displays, digital media products such as flat-panel TVs and home appliances. To succeed in this competitive environment, Hitachi believes that its products and services must be competitive in terms of price, engineering sophistication, quality and brand value and that such products and services must be introduced to the markets in a timely manner. Hitachi cannot be certain that the products or services that it offers will be competitive, and should such products or services fail to be competitive, Hitachi’s business results may be negatively affected. Rapid technological innovation New technologies are rapidly emerging in the segments in which Hitachi does business, with the pace of technological innovation being especially notable in the fields of information systems, electronics and digital media. The development of new and advanced technologies, the continuous, timely and cost-effective incorporation of such technologies into products and services, and the effective marketing of such products and services are indispensable to remaining competitive. While introducing such products and services requires a significant commitment to research and development, there can be no assurance that Hitachi’s research and development will be successful. Should Hitachi fail in its endeavors to develop and incorporate such advanced technologies into products and services, or achieve market acceptance for such products and services, the results of operations of related Hitachi businesses may be negatively impacted. Material and component procurement Hitachi’s manufacturing operations rely on third parties for supplies of materials, parts, components and services of adequate quality and quantity and in a timely manner. External suppliers may have other customers and may not have sufficient capacity to meet all of the needs of such customers during periods of excess demand. Shortages of materials, parts, components and services may cause a sharp rise in their prices. Prices of certain raw materials, parts and components that Hitachi purchases, such as petroleum products, copper, aluminum and semiconductor memory chips, are extremely volatile. Increases in the price of petroleum and other materials, such as copper, steel and synthetic resins, are increasing Hitachi’s production costs and may adversely affect its results of operations. Although, in general, Hitachi maintains multiple sources of supply and works closely with its suppliers to avoid supply-related problems, such problems including shortages and delays may occur, which could materially harm Hitachi’s business. Supply and demand balance Oversupply in the markets in which Hitachi is involved may lead to a decline in sales prices and revenues and adversely affect Hitachi’s performance. In addition, Hitachi may be forced to dispose of excess supply or obsolete equipment or reduce production to adjust to demand, which can cause Hitachi losses. For example, market demand for hard disk drives has been volatile, and unexpected decline in demand and oversupply could result in a sharp decline in unit prices of hard disk drives. The semiconductor industry and the liquid crystal display industry, in particular, are highly cyclical, and cyclical downturns are characterized by sharp declines in prices and overcapacity. These businesses conducted primarily by subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company may be negatively impacted by oversupply in the global markets. 3 Table of Contents Risks Related to Operations Dependence on specially skilled personnel Hitachi believes it can continue to remain competitive only if it can maintain and secure additional people who are highly skilled in the fields of management and technology. However, the number of skilled personnel is limited and the competition for attracting and maintaining such personnel is intense, particularly in the information technology industry. Hitachi cannot ensure that it will be able to successfully attract new or maintain its current skilled personnel. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances In every operating sector, Hitachi depends to some degree on acquisitions of other companies, joint ventures and strategic alliances with outside partners to design and develop key new technologies and products and to strengthen competitiveness. Such transactions are inherently risky, including because of the difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, products and personnel. Integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could adversely affect Hitachi’s business. The success of alliances may also be adversely affected by decisions or performance of alliance partners that Hitachi cannot control or by adverse business trends. Hitachi may incur significant acquisition, administrative and other costs in connection with these transactions, including costs related to integration or restructuring of acquired businesses. There can be no assurance that these transactions will be beneficial to Hitachi’s business or financial condition. Even assuming these transactions are beneficial, there can be no assurance that Hitachi will be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses or achieve all or any of the initial objectives of these transactions. Restructuring of business Hitachi is continuing to restructure its business to improve management efficiency and strengthen competitiveness by increasing its focus on targeted businesses investment, research and development, closing unprofitable operations, divesting its subsidiaries and affiliated companies, reorganizing production bases and sales networks and reducing its workforce. There can be no assurance that Hitachi’s efforts will be successful. In addition, significant costs may be incurred in connection with these efforts, including costs related to the restructuring of businesses, impairment losses on the disposal of fixed assets and losses related to the sale of securities, that may adversely affect Hitachi’s financial results and condition. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results — Restructuring” for additional information. Restructuring measures may be constrained or plans may not be implemented in a timely manner due to governmental regulations, employment issues and a lack of demand in the M&A market for businesses Hitachi may seek to sell. Moreover, Hitachi may not achieve all of the objectives of these actions. Business activities in overseas markets Hitachi seeks to expand its business in overseas markets as part of its business strategy. Through such overseas expansion, Hitachi aims to increase its revenues, reduce its costs and improve its profitability. Hitachi’s overseas business activities may be adversely affected by various factors in foreign countries where it operates, including changes in regulations relating to investments, export, tariffs, antitrust, anti-bribery, consumer and business taxation, intellectual property, foreign trade and exchange controls, environmental and recycling requirements, differences in commercial and business customs such as contract terms and conditions, labor relations, public sentiment against Japan and other political and social factors as well as economic trends and currency exchange rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that Hitachi will be able to achieve all or any of the initial aims of its strategy. Intellectual property Hitachi depends in part on intellectual property rights covering its products, product design and manufacturing processes. Hitachi owns or licenses a large number of intellectual property rights and, when Hitachi believes it is necessary or desirable, obtains additional licenses for the use of other parties’ intellectual property rights. If Hitachi fails to protect, maintain or obtain such rights, its performance and ability to compete may be adversely affected. In addition, since intellectual property litigation is costly and unpredictable, Hitachi’s efforts to protect its intellectual property rights or to defend itself against claims relating to intellectual property rights made by others, including employee-inventors, could impose considerable or unexpected expenses on Hitachi. 4 Table of Contents Litigation and regulatory investigations Hitachi faces risks of litigation and regulatory investigation and actions in connection with its operations. Lawsuits, including regulatory actions, may seek recovery of very large, indeterminate amounts or limit Hitachi’s operations, and their existence and magnitude may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. A substantial legal liability or regulatory action could have a material adverse effect on Hitachi’s business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation and credibility. See “Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings” for additional information. Product quality and liability Hitachi increasingly provides products and services utilizing sophisticated and complicated technologies, including but not limited to components of nuclear power stations. Reliance on external suppliers reduces Hitachi’s control over quality assurance. There is a risk that defects may occur in Hitachi’s products and services. The occurrence of such defects could negatively impact Hitachi’s reputation for quality products, expose Hitachi to liability for damages caused by such defects and negatively impact Hitachi’s ability to sell certain products. Even a single significant product defect, could materially and adversely affect Hitachi’s business results of operations, financial condition and future business prospects. For example, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be liable for additional repair costs or other damages incurred by power companies due to the breakdown of the turbine vanes in the nuclear reactors at Hamaoka Nuclear Power Station and at Shika Nuclear Power Station. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Description of Industry Segments — Power & Industrial Systems” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — D. Trend Information.” Risks of natural disasters and similar events Portions of Hitachi’s facilities, including its research and development facilities, manufacturing facilities and the Company’s headquarters, are located in Japan, where seismic activity is frequent. Large earthquakes or other significant natural disasters could have a negative impact on Hitachi’s operating activities, results of operations and financial condition. Information security With the increased importance of information systems to Hitachi’s operating activities, disruptions in such information systems, due to computer viruses and other factors, could have a negative impact on Hitachi’s operating activities, results of operations and financial condition. Hitachi holds personal information, confidential information and information relating to the technology, R&D, production, marketing and business operations of Hitachi and its customers and clients in various forms such as information systems, digital storage media or papers. Although Hitachi seeks to protect the confidentiality of such information, any leakage of such information could have a negative impact on Hitachi’s operating activities, results of operations, financial condition, reputation and credibility. Governmental regulations Hitachi’s business activities are subject to various governmental regulations in countries where it operates, which include investment approvals, export regulations, tariffs, antitrust, anti-bribery, intellectual property, consumer and business taxation, foreign trade and exchange controls, and environmental and recycling requirements. Significant changes in such regulations may limit Hitachi’s business activities or increase operating costs. In addition, the enforcement of such regulations, including the imposition of fines or surcharges for violation of such regulations, may adversely affect Hitachi’s results of operations, financial conditions, cash flows, reputation and credibility. See “Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings” for additional information. Marketable securities risks Hitachi owns marketable securities that are exposed to stock market risks. Declines in stock market prices may require Hitachi to write down equity securities that it holds, which may have an adverse effect on Hitachi’s financial condition and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Access to liquidity and long-term financing Hitachi’s primary sources of funds are cash flows from operations, borrowings from banks and other institutional lenders, and funding from the capital markets, such as offerings of commercial paper and other debt securities. A downgrade in Hitachi’s credit ratings could result in increases in Hitachi’s interest expenses and could have an adverse impact on Hitachi’s ability to access the commercial paper market or the public and private debt markets, which could have an adverse effect on Hitachi’s financial position and liquidity. Although Hitachi has access to other sources of liquidity, including bank borrowings, cash flows from its operations and sales of its assets, Hitachi cannot be sure that these other sources will be adequate or on terms acceptable to it if any adverse conditions arise. A failure of one or more of Hitachi’s major lenders, a decision by one or more of them to stop lending to Hitachi or instability in the capital markets could have an adverse impact on Hitachi’s access to funding. Retirement benefits Hitachi has a significant amount of employee retirement benefit costs which are derived from actuarial valuations based on a number of assumptions. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions used in estimating pension costs including mortality, withdrawal, retirement, changes in compensation, discount rate and expected return on plan assets. Hitachi is required to make judgments regarding the key assumptions by taking into account various factors including personnel demographics, market conditions and expected trends in interest rates. Although management believes that its key assumptions are reasonable in light of the various underlying factors, there can be no assurance that the key assumptions will correspond to actual results. If the Company’s key assumptions differ from actual results, the consequent deviation of actual pension costs from estimated costs may have a material adverse effect on Hitachi’s financial condition and results of operations. A decrease in the discount rate results in an increase in actuarial pension benefit obligations. Increases and decreases in the pension benefit obligations affect the amount of the actuarial gain or loss which is amortized into income over the service lives of employees. In addition, the Company may change these key assumptions, such as the discount rate or the expected return on plan assets. Changes in key assumptions may also have a material adverse effect on Hitachi’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Hitachi’s American Depositary Shares Unit shares The Japanese Company Law allows companies to set one “unit” of shares for the purpose of exercising voting rights at the general meetings of shareholders. Under the articles of incorporation of the Company, one unit of the Company’s shares is comprised of 1,000 shares, equivalent to 100 American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”). Each unit of the Company’s shares has one vote. A holder who owns shares or ADSs, in other than multiples of 1,000 or 100, respectively, will own less than a whole unit (i.e., for the portion constituting fewer than 1,000 shares, or fewer than 100 ADSs). The articles of incorporation of the Company, in accordance with the Japanese Company Law, imposes significant restrictions on the rights of holders of shares constituting less than a whole unit, which include restrictions on the right to vote, to attend a shareholders meeting and to bring derivative actions. In addition, less than whole unit shares cannot be traded on Japanese stock markets. Under the unit share system, holders of the Company’s shares constituting less than one unit have the right to require the Company to purchase their shares and the right to require the Company to sell them additional shares to create a whole unit of 1,000 shares. However, holders of the Company’s ADSs are unable to withdraw underlying shares representing less than one unit and, as a practical matter, are unable to require the Company to purchase those underlying shares. The unit share system, however, does not affect the transferability of ADSs, which may be transferred in lots of any number of whole ADSs. Foreign exchange fluctuations Market prices for the ADSs may fall if the value of the yen declines against the dollar. In addition, the amount of cash dividends or other cash payments made to holders of ADSs will decline if the value of the yen declines against the dollar. Rights of ADS holders The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining the Company’s accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to shareholders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the record holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying ADSs in accordance with the instructions of ADS holders and will pay the dividends and distributions collected from the Company as and to the extent provided in the deposit agreement. However, ADS holders will not be able to bring derivative actions, examine the Company’s accounting books and records, or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. 6 Table of Contents The Company is incorporated in Japan with limited liability. A significant portion of the assets of the Company is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be more difficult for investors to enforce against the Company judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the Federal securities laws of the United States or judgments obtained in other courts outside Japan. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Japanese courts, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the Federal securities laws of the United States. 