D. Risk Factors Hitachi operates in a broad range of business fields, conducts business on a global scale, and utilizes sophisticated specialized technologies to carry on its operations. It is therefore exposed to risks attributable to the economic environment, risks inherent in individual industrial sectors and business lines, and risks related to management. Investments in Hitachi’s securities also involve risks. Although certain risks that may affect Hitachi’s businesses are listed in this section, the list is not exhaustive. Hitachi’s businesses may in the future also be affected by other risks that are currently unknown or that are not currently considered significant. The items set forth in this section contain forward-looking statements as described in the “Cautionary Statement” in this annual report. Certain of the risk factors that may affect Hitachi are set out below. Risks Related to Economic Environment Economic trends Decreases in consumer spending and private-sector plant and equipment investment due to economic downturns in Japan, North America, Asia and other major markets where Hitachi does business, or direct or indirect restrictions on imports by other nations, may negatively impact Hitachi’s business results by reducing demand and increasing price competition for the products and services Hitachi offers. In addition, the adverse economic environment may result in increased risks of excess inventories and overcapacities, and further restructuring measures by Hitachi, which could involve associated expenses. 2 Table of Contents Currency exchange rate fluctuations Since Hitachi conducts business in many foreign countries, a portion of its assets and liabilities that are denominated in various currencies is exposed to risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, Hitachi exports products and imports raw materials in local currencies, principally the U.S. dollar. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect Hitachi’s financial results, which are reported in Japanese yen. A strong yen, for example, reduces the price competitiveness of products exported to foreign markets and diminishes profit by decreasing revenues. While Hitachi takes measures to reduce the risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, there can be no assurance that such measures will succeed. Risks Related to Industrial Sectors and Business Lines Rapid technological innovation New technologies are rapidly emerging in the segments in which Hitachi does business, with the pace of technological innovation being especially notable in the fields of information systems, electronics and digital media. The development of new and advanced technologies, the continuous, timely and cost-effective incorporation of such technologies into products and services, and the effective marketing of such products and services are indispensable to remaining competitive. While introducing such products and services requires a significant commitment to research and development, there can be no assurance that Hitachi’s research and development will result in success. Should Hitachi fail in its endeavors to develop and incorporate into products and services such advanced technologies, and achieve market acceptance for such products and services, the results of operations of related Hitachi businesses may be negatively impacted. Intense competition The industrial sectors and business lines in which Hitachi is engaged are experiencing increasingly intense competition. Hitachi competes with diverse competitors ranging from huge global corporations to specialized companies. Competitors are increasingly manufacturing products, including sophisticated electronic products, in low-cost jurisdictions. Globalization of markets and commoditization of such products are making price competition in the business sectors in which Hitachi is engaged increasingly intense. Products which are facing intense price competition or decreases in prices include computer-related products, such as hard disk drives, disk array subsystems and optical disk drives, semiconductors, liquid crystal displays, digital media products and home appliances. To succeed in this competitive environment, Hitachi believes its products and services must be competitive in terms of price, engineering expertise, quality and brand value. Hitachi cannot be certain that the products or services that it offers will be competitive, and should such products or services fail to be competitive, Hitachi’s business results may be negatively affected. Supply and demand balance Supply in excess of demand leads to a decline in selling prices and thus, such oversupply in the markets in which Hitachi is involved may adversely affect Hitachi’s performance. In addition, Hitachi may be forced to dispose of overcapacity and obsolete equipment to adjust to demand, which can cause Hitachi losses. The semiconductor industry and the liquid crystal display industry, in particular, are highly cyclical, and cyclical downturns are characterized by sharp falls in prices and overcapacity. The liquid crystal display business and the semiconductor business conducted primarily by subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company may be negatively impacted by a periodic oversupply in the global markets in the future. Material and component procurement Hitachi’s manufacturing operations rely on third parties for supplies of parts, components and services of adequate quality and quantity and in a timely manner. External suppliers may have other customers and may not have sufficient capacity to meet all of the needs of such customers during periods of excess demand. Although in general, Hitachi maintains multiple sources of supply and works closely with its suppliers to avoid supply-related problems, such problems including shortages and delays may occur, which could materially harm Hitachi’s business. In addition, reliance on outside sources increases the risk that Hitachi will not be able to control or avoid the introduction under the Hitachi name of products incorporating defective or inferior components, which could impose expenses for product recalls and lawsuits on Hitachi and adversely affect Hitachi’s business results or its reputation for quality products. In addition, an increase in Hitachi’s production costs due to a sharp rise in prices of materials and components that Hitachi purchases could negatively affect Hitachi’s business results. 3 Table of Contents Risks Related to Management Dependence on specially skilled personnel Hitachi believes it can continue to remain competitive only if it can maintain and secure additional people who are highly skilled in the fields of management and technology. However, the number of skilled personnel is limited and the competition for attracting and maintaining such personnel is intense, particularly in the information technology industry. Hitachi cannot assure that it will be able to successfully maintain and secure additional skilled personnel. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances In every operating sector, Hitachi depends to some degree on acquisitions of other companies, joint ventures and strategic alliances with outside partners to design and develop key new technologies and products, and to strengthen competitiveness. Such transactions are inherently risky, including because of the difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, products and personnel. Integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could adversely affect Hitachi’s business. The success of alliances may also be adversely affected by decisions or performance of alliance partners that Hitachi cannot control or by adverse business trends. Hitachi may incur significant acquisition, administrative and other costs in connection with these transactions, including costs related to integration or restructuring of acquired businesses. There can be no assurance that these transactions will be beneficial to Hitachi’s business or financial condition. Even assuming these transactions are beneficial, there can be no assurance that Hitachi will be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses or achieve all or any of the initial objectives of these transactions. Restructuring of business Hitachi is continuing to restructure its business to improve management efficiency and strengthen competitiveness by closing unprofitable operations, divesting its subsidiaries and affiliated companies, reorganizing production bases and sales network and reducing its workforce. In connection with these actions, Hitachi is incurring costs that adversely affect Hitachi’s financial results and condition. Restructuring measures may be constrained or plans may not be implemented in a timely manner due to governmental regulations, employment issues and a lack of demand in the M&A market for businesses Hitachi may seek to sell. Moreover, Hitachi may not achieve all of the objectives of these actions. Business activities in overseas markets Hitachi seeks to expand its business in overseas markets as part of its business strategy. Through such overseas expansion, Hitachi aims to increase its revenues, reduce its costs and improve its profitability. Hitachi’s overseas business activities may be adversely affected by various factors in foreign countries where it operates, including changes in regulations relating to investments, export, tariffs, antitrust, consumer and business taxation and exchange controls, differences in commercial and business customs, labor relations, public sentiment against Japan and other political and social factors as well as economic trends and currency exchange rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that Hitachi will be able to achieve all or any of the initial aims of its strategy. Measures taken under the medium-term management plan In January 2003, Hitachi announced a new medium-term management plan through the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006. Hitachi plans to realign its business portfolio by exiting certain businesses and increasing focus on targeted businesses under the management plan. A variety of exit strategies may be employed to exit the selected businesses, including divestiture and closure. Significant costs are expected in connection with these actions, including costs related to the restructuring of businesses and losses related to the sale of securities. While increasing focus on targeted businesses may require a significant commitment to investment and research and development, there can be no assurance that Hitachi’s investment and research and development efforts will be successful. In addition, there can be no assurance that the strategic realignment of businesses under the plan will be beneficial to Hitachi’s business or financial condition. Even assuming the strategic realignment would be beneficial, Hitachi may fail to properly implement the measures under the plan, which might adversely affect Hitachi’s financial condition and results of operations. 4 Table of Contents Intellectual property Hitachi depends in part on intellectual property rights covering its products, product design and manufacturing processes. Hitachi owns or licenses a large number of intellectual property rights and, when Hitachi believes it is necessary or desirable, obtains additional licenses for the use of other parties’ intellectual property rights. If Hitachi fails to protect, maintain or obtain such rights, its performance and ability to compete may be adversely affected. In addition, since intellectual property litigation is costly and unpredictable, Hitachi’s efforts to protect its intellectual property rights or to defend itself against claims relating to intellectual property rights made by others could impose considerable expenses on Hitachi. Litigation and regulatory investigations Hitachi faces risks of litigation and regulatory investigation and actions in connection with its operations. Lawsuits, including regulatory actions, may seek recovery of very large, indeterminate amounts or limit Hitachi’s operations, and their existence and magnitude may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. A substantial legal liability or regulatory action could have a material adverse effect on Hitachi’s business, results of operations, financial condition, reputation and credibility. Product quality and liability Hitachi increasingly provides products and services utilizing sophisticated and complicated technologies. Reliance on external suppliers reduces Hitachi’s control over quality assurance. There is a risk that defects may occur in Hitachi’s products and services. The occurrence of such defects could make Hitachi liable for damages caused by the defects and could negatively impact Hitachi’s reputation for quality products and thereby adversely affect Hitachi’s business results. Risks of natural disasters and similar events Portions of Hitachi’s facilities, including its research and development facilities, manufacturing facilities and the Company’s headquarters, are located in Japan, where seismic activity is frequent. Large earthquakes or other significant natural disasters could have a negative impact on Hitachi’s operating activities, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, with the increased importance of information systems in Hitachi’s operating activities, disruptions in such information systems due to computer viruses and other factors could have a negative impact on Hitachi’s operating activities, results of operations and financial condition. Governmental regulations Hitachi’s business activities are subject to various governmental regulations in countries where it operates, which include investment approvals, export regulations, tariffs, antitrust, intellectual property, consumer and business taxation, exchange controls, and environmental and recycling requirements. Significant changes in such regulations may limit Hitachi’s business activities or increase operating costs. Marketable securities risks Hitachi owns marketable securities that are exposed to stock market risks. Declines in stock market prices may require Hitachi to write down equity securities that it holds, which may have an adverse effect on Hitachi’s financial condition and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Access to liquidity and long-term financing Hitachi’s primary sources of funds are cash flows from operations, borrowings from banks and other institutional lenders, and funding from the capital markets, such as offerings of commercial paper and other debt securities. A downgrade in Hitachi’s credit ratings could result in increases in Hitachi’s interest expenses and could have an adverse impact on Hitachi’s ability to access the commercial paper market or the public and private debt markets, which could have an adverse effect on Hitachi’s financial position and liquidity. Although Hitachi has access to other sources of liquidity, including bank borrowings, cash flows from its operations and sales of its assets, Hitachi cannot be sure that these other sources will be adequate or on terms acceptable to it if any adverse conditions arise. A failure of one or more of Hitachi’s major lenders, a decision by one or more of them to stop lending to Hitachi or instability in the Japanese capital markets could have an adverse impact on Hitachi’s access to funding. Retirement benefits Hitachi has a significant amount of employee retirement benefit costs which are derived from actuarial valuations based on a number of assumptions. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions used in estimating pension costs including mortality, withdrawal, retirement, changes in compensation, discount rate and expected return on plan assets. Hitachi is required to make judgments regarding the key assumptions by taking into account various factors including personnel demographics, market conditions and expected trends in interest rates. Although management believes that its key assumptions are reasonable in light of the various underlying factors, there can be no assurance that the key assumptions will correspond to actual results. If the Company’s key assumptions differ from actual results, the consequent deviation of actual pension costs from estimated costs may have a material adverse effect on Hitachi’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company may change these key assumptions, such as the discount rate or the expected return on plan assets. Changes in key assumptions may also have a material adverse effect on Hitachi’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Hitachi’s Securities Unit shares One “unit” of the Company’s shares is comprised of 1,000 shares or 100 ADSs. Each unit of the Company’s shares has one vote. A holder who owns shares or American depositary receipts, or ADRs, in other than multiples of 1,000 or 100, respectively, will own less than a whole unit (i.e., for the portion constituting fewer than 1,000 shares, or ADRs evidencing fewer than 100 ADSs). The Japanese Commercial Code imposes significant restrictions on the rights of holders of shares constituting less than a whole unit, which include restrictions on the right to vote and on the transferability of less than whole unit shares. Under the unit share system, holders of the Company’s shares constituting less than a unit have the right to require the Company to purchase their shares and the right to require the Company to sell them additional shares to create a whole unit of 1,000 shares. However, holders of the Company’s ADRs are unable to withdraw underlying shares representing less than one unit and, as a practical matter, are unable to require the Company to purchase those underlying shares. The unit share system, however, does not affect the transferability of ADSs, which may be transferred in lots of any size. Foreign exchange fluctuations Market prices for the ADSs may fall if the value of the yen declines against the dollar. In addition, the amount of cash dividends or other cash payments made to holders of ADSs will decline if the value of the yen declines against the dollar. Rights of ADS holders The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining the Company’s accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to shareholders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the record holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying ADSs in accordance with the instructions of ADS holders and will pay the dividends and distributions collected from the Company. However, ADS holders will not be able to bring derivative actions, examine the Company’s accounting books and records, or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. The Company is incorporated in Japan with limited liability. A significant portion of the assets of the Company are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be more difficult for investors to enforce against the Company judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the Federal securities laws of the United States or judgments obtained in other courts outside Japan. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Japanese courts, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the Federal securities laws of the United States. 6 Table of Contents 