ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Unfavorable economic and market conditions could reduce our sales and profitability and as a result, our operating results may be adversely affected.Over the past few years, economic conditions have been challenging in the U.S. and many of the countries and regions in which we do business. Despite modest recovery in the U.S. economic conditions remain uncertain and challenging for the foreseeable future. Economic conditions in the U.S., and in international markets have had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse impact on demand for our products. General business and economic conditions that could affect us include short-term and long-term interest rates, unemployment, inflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, limited availability of consumer financing and weak credit markets, the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate.There could be a number of effects from these economic developments on our business, including: reduced demand for products; insolvency of our dealers resulting in increased provisions for credit losses; insolvency of our key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; decreased customer demand, including order delays or cancellations; and counter-party failures negatively impacting our treasury operations.In addition, the current weak recovery and general uncertain economic conditions in the U.S. and uncertainty surrounding the U.S. federal government, including the debt ceiling and the so-called "fiscal cliff", make it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause us to incur excess costs. Additionally, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of products, labor or materials used in our products that could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market share.-10-Table of ContentsWe may need to take additional impairment charges related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations.Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are tested for impairment annually, and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible an impairment may exist. As of December 29, 2012, we had goodwill of $288 million recorded on our balance sheet. We test for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of the year and whenever indicators of impairment exist. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the carrying value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting unit. If the fair value is determined to be less than carrying value, a second step is performed to determine the implied fair value of goodwill associated with the reporting unit. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, such excess represents the amount of goodwill impairment, and accordingly, such impairment is recognized.We estimate the fair values of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of longer term, broad market trends. We combine this trend data with estimates of current economic conditions in the U.S., competitor behavior, the mix of product sales, commodity costs, wage rates, the level of manufacturing capacity and the pricing environment. In addition, estimates of fair value are impacted by estimates of the market-participant-derived weighted average cost of capital. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. We have two reporting units that have been recently acquired and therefore have a historical cost closer to their current fair value.The office furniture and hearth products industries are highly competitive and, as a result, we may not always be successful.Both the office furniture and hearth products industries are highly competitive, with a significant number of competitors in both industries offering similar products. While competitive factors vary geographically and between differing sales situations, typical factors for both industries include: price; delivery and service; product design and features; product quality; strength of dealers and other distributors; and relationships with customers and key influencers, such as architects, designers, home-builders and facility managers. Our principal competitors in the office furniture industry include The Global Group, Haworth, Inc., Kimball International, Inc., Steelcase Inc., Herman Miller, Inc., Teknion Corporation, Virco Mfg. Corporaton, Krueger International Inc. (KI) and Knoll, Inc. Our principal competitors in the hearth products industry include Travis Industries Inc., Comvest Partners (Innovative Hearth Products), Riverside Company (Vermont Castings Group), Wolf Steel Ltd. (Napoleon) and FPI Fireplace Products International Ltd. (Regency). In both industries, most of our top competitors have an installed base of products that can be a source of significant future sales through repeat and expansion orders. These competitors manufacture products with strong acceptance in the marketplace and are capable of developing products that have a competitive advantage over our products.Our continued success will depend on many factors, including our ability to continue to manufacture and market high quality, high performance products at competitive prices and our ability to adapt our business model to effectively compete in the highly competitive environments of both the office furniture and hearth products industries. Our success is also subject to our ability to sustain and grow our positive brand reputation and recognition among existing and potential customers and use our brands and trademarks effectively in entering new markets.In both the office furniture and hearth products industries, we also face significant price competition from our competitors and from new market entrants who primarily manufacture and source products from lower cost countries. Such price competition impacts our ability to implement price increases or, in some cases, even maintain prices, which could lower our profit margins. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or raise the prices of our products in response to rising raw material prices and other inflationary pressures. The concentration of our customer base, changes in demand and order patterns from our customers, as well as the increased purchasing power of such customers, could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.We sell our products through multiple distribution channels. These distribution channels have been consolidating in the past several years and may continue to consolidate in the future. Such consolidation may result in a greater proportion of our sales being concentrated in fewer customers. The increased purchasing power exercised by larger customers may adversely affect the prices at which we can successfully offer our products. As a result of this consolidation, changes in the purchase patterns or the loss of a single customer may have a greater impact on our business, operating results or financial condition than such events would have had prior to such consolidation.-11-Table of ContentsThe growth in sales of private-label products by some of our largest office furniture customers may reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.Private-label products are products sold under the name of the distributor or retailer, but manufactured by another party. Some of our largest customers have aggressive private-label initiatives to increase sales of office furniture. If successful, they may reduce our revenue and inhibit our ability to raise prices and may, in some cases, even force us to lower prices, which could result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.Increases in basic commodity, raw material and component costs, as well as disruptions to the supply of basic commodities, raw materials and components, could adversely affect our profitability.Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the commodities, raw materials and components used by us in manufacturing could have an adverse effect on our costs of sales, profitability and our ability to meet customers' demand. We source commodities, raw materials and components from domestic and international suppliers for both our office furniture and hearth products. From both domestic and international suppliers, the cost, quality and availability of commodities, raw materials and components, including steel, our largest raw material category, have been significantly affected in recent years by, among other things, changes in global supply and demand, changes in laws and regulations (including tariffs and duties), changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels, natural disasters, labor disputes, terrorism and political unrest or instability. These factors could lead to further price increases or supply interruptions in the future. Our profit margins could be adversely affected if commodity, raw material and component costs remain high or escalate further, and we are either unable to offset such costs through strategic sourcing initiatives and continuous improvement programs or, as a result of competitive market dynamics, unable to pass along a portion of the higher costs to our customers.We are affected by the cost of energy, and increases in energy prices could adversely affect our gross margins and profitability.Our gross margins and the profitability of our business operations are sensitive to the cost of energy because it is reflected in our cost of transportation, petroleum-based materials like plastics and operation of our manufacturing facilities. If the costs of petroleum-based products, operating our manufacturing facilities or transportation increase, it could adversely affect our gross margins and profitability.Our efforts to introduce new products that meet customer and workplace requirements may not be successful, which could limit our sales growth or cause our sales to decline.To keep pace with market trends in both the office furniture and hearth products industries, we must periodically introduce new products. Such trends include changes in workplace and home design and increases in the use of technology and evolving regulatory and industry requirements, including environmental, health, safety and similar standards for the workplace and home and for product performance. The introduction of new products in both industries requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of such products, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. The design and engineering of certain new products can take up to a year or more, and further time may be required to achieve client acceptance. In addition, we may face difficulties in introducing new products if we cannot successfully align ourselves with independent architects, home-builders and designers who are able to design, in a timely manner, high quality products consistent with our image. Accordingly, the launch of any particular product may be later or less successful than we originally anticipated. Difficulties or delays in introducing new products or lack of customer acceptance of new products could limit our sales growth or cause our sales to decline and may result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.-12-Table of ContentsWe have grown, and may continue to grow, our business through acquisitions, alliances and joint venture arrangements, which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.One of our growth strategies is to supplement our internal growth through acquisitions of, and alliances and joint venture arrangements with, businesses with technologies or products that complement or augment our existing products or distribution or add new products or distribution to our business. In the past two years, we acquired Sagus International, an education furniture company, and BP Ergo Limited, an office furniture company in India, both of which we continue to integrate into our business. The benefits of these acquisitions, or future acquisitions, alliances or joint ventures may take more time than expected to develop or integrate into our operations, and we cannot guarantee any completed or future acquisitions, alliances or joint ventures will in fact produce any benefits. In addition, acquisitions, alliances and joint ventures involve a number of risks, including, without limitation:•diversion of management’s attention, including significant management time devoted to integrating acquisitions;•difficulties in assimilating the operations and products of an acquired business or in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings and revenue synergies;•potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses or adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;•adverse impact on overall profitability if acquired businesses do not achieve the financial results projected in our valuation models;•reallocation of amounts of capital from other operating initiatives or an increase in our leverage and debt service requirements to pay the acquisition purchase prices, which could in turn restrict our ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy;•inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems and unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; and•incorrect estimates made in accounting for acquisitions, incurrence of non-recurring charges and write-off of significant amounts of goodwill that could adversely affect our operating results.Our ability to grow through future acquisitions will depend, in part, on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at an acceptable price, our ability to compete effectively for these acquisition candidates and the availability of capital to complete such acquisitions. These risks could be heightened if we complete several acquisitions within a relatively short period of time. In addition, there can be no assurance we will be able to continue to identify attractive opportunities or enter into any such transactions with acceptable terms in the future. If an acquisition is completed, there can be no assurance we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired entity into our operations or that we will achieve sales and profitability that justify our investment in such businesses. Any potential acquisition may not be successful and could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.We are subject to extensive environmental regulation and have exposure to potential environmental liabilities.The past and present operation and ownership by us of manufacturing facilities and real property are subject to extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges in air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances. Compliance with environmental regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position to date; however, compliance with current laws or more stringent laws or regulations which may be imposed on us in the future, stricter interpretation of existing laws or discoveries of contamination at our real property sites which occurred prior to our ownership or the advent of environmental regulation may require us to incur additional expenditures in the future, some of which may be material.The existence of various unfavorable macroeconomic and industry factors for a prolonged period could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.Office furniture industry revenues are impacted by a variety of macroeconomic factors such as service-sector employment levels, corporate profits, small business confidence, commercial construction and office vacancy rates. Industry factors, such as corporate restructuring, technology changes, corporate relocations, health and safety concerns, including ergonomic considerations, and the globalization of companies also influence office furniture industry revenues.-13-Table of ContentsHearth products industry revenues are impacted by a variety of macroeconomic factors as well, including housing starts, overall employment levels, interest rates, consumer confidence, energy costs, disposable income and changing demographics. Industry factors, such as technology changes, health and safety concerns and environmental regulation, including indoor air quality standards, also influence hearth products industry revenues. Deterioration of the economic conditions or a slowdown in the recovery in the homebuilding industry and the hearth products market could decrease demand for our hearth products and have additional adverse effects on our operating results.Increasing healthcare costs could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We provide healthcare benefits to the majority of our members and are self-insured. Healthcare costs have continued to rise over time, which increases our annual spending on healthcare and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.Our inability to improve the quality/capability of our network of independent dealers or the loss of a significant number of such dealers could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.In both the office furniture and hearth products industries, we rely in large part on a network of independent dealers to market our products to customers. We also rely upon these dealers to provide a variety of important specification, installation and after-market services to our customers. Our dealers may terminate their relationships with us at any time and for any reason. The loss or termination of a significant number of dealer relationships could cause difficulties for us in marketing and distributing our products, resulting in a decline in our sales, which may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.Our international operations expose us to risks related to conducting business in multiple jurisdictions outside the United States.During the past several years, we have experienced growth in our international operations and sales, including in China and India. We plan to continue to grow internationally. We primarily sell our products and report our financial results in U.S. dollars; however, our increased business in countries outside the United States exposes us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Paying our expenses in other currencies can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those expenses in terms of U.S. dollars, which may affect our profits. In the future, any foreign currency appreciation relative to the U.S. dollar would increase our expenses that are denominated in that currency. Additionally, as we report currency in the U.S. dollar, our financial position is affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we have operations relative to the strength of the U.S. dollar.Further, certain countries have complex regulatory systems which impose administrative and legal requirements which make managing international operations more difficult, including approvals to transfer funds into certain countries. If we are unable to provide financial support to our international operations in a timely manner, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.We periodically review our foreign currency exposure and evaluate whether we should enter into hedging transactions.Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of additional risks, including, without limitation:•social and political turmoil, official corruption and civil and labor unrest;•restrictive government actions, such as the imposition of trade quotas and tariffs and restrictions on transfers of funds;•changes in labor laws and regulations affecting our ability to hire, retain or dismiss employees;•the need to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting laws and regulations, including environmental and corporate laws and regulations;•preference for locally branded products and laws and business practices favoring local competition;•less effective protection of intellectual property and increased possibility of loss due to cyber-theft;•unfavorable business conditions or economic instability in any particular country or region;•infrastructure disruptions;•potentially conflicting cultural and business practices; and•difficulty in obtaining distribution and support.-14-Table of ContentsRestrictions imposed by the terms of our credit facility and note purchase agreement may limit our operating and financial flexibility.Our credit facility and note purchase agreement, dated as of April 6, 2006, pursuant to which we issued $150 million of senior, unsecured notes designated as Series 2006-A Senior Notes, limit our ability to finance operations, service debt or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. Specifically, our credit facility restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create or incur certain liens with respect to any of our properties or assets, engage in lines of business substantially different than those currently conducted by us, sell, lease, license or dispose of any of our assets, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, make certain restricted payments or take certain restricted actions and enter into certain sale-leaseback arrangements. Our note purchase agreement contains customary restrictive covenants that, among other things, place limits on our ability to incur liens on assets, incur additional debt, transfer or sell our assets, merge or consolidate with other persons or enter into material transactions with affiliates. Our credit facility and note purchase agreement also require us to maintain certain financial covenants.Our failure to comply with the obligations under our credit facility may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, may cause accelerated repayment of the indebtedness under the credit facility and could result in a cross default under our note purchase agreement. We cannot be certain we will have sufficient funds available to pay any accelerated repayments or we will have the ability to refinance accelerated repayments on terms favorable to us or at all.Costs related to product defects, including product liability costs, could adversely affect our profitability.We incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product recall and retrofit costs and product liability costs. These expenses relative to product sales vary and could increase. We use chemicals and materials in our products and include components in our products from external suppliers, which we believe are safe and appropriate for their designated use; however, harmful effects may become known which could subject us to litigation, including health-related litigation, and significant losses. We maintain reserves for product defect-related costs based on estimates and our knowledge of circumstances that indicate the need for such reserves. We cannot, however, be certain these reserves will be adequate to cover actual product defect-related claims in the future. We also purchase insurance coverage to reduce our exposure to significant levels of product liability claims and maintain a reserve for our self-insured losses based upon estimates of the aggregate liability using claims experience and actuarial assumptions, but we cannot be certain insurance would cover all losses related to product claims. Incorrect estimates or any significant increase in the rate of our product defect expenses could have a material adverse effect on operations.We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms.Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including capital improvements, tooling, new product development and acquisitions. To the extent our existing capital is insufficient to meet these requirements and cover any losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Our ability to generate cash depends on economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be beyond our control. Future borrowings or financings may not be available to us under our credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or meet our liquidity needs.Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, could have terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, financings could result in dilution to our shareholders or the securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital.Our sales to the U.S. government and various state and local governments is subject to uncertain future funding levels and federal, state and local procurement laws and are governed by restrictive contract terms; any of these factors could limit current or future business.We derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales to various U.S. federal, state and local government agencies and departments. Our ability to compete successfully for and retain business with the U.S. government, as well as with state and local governments, is highly dependent on cost-effective performance. Our government business is highly sensitive to changes in procurement laws; national, international, state and local public priorities; and budgets at all levels of government, which have recently experienced downward pressure and, in the case of the federal budget, are subject to uncertainty due in part to the potential for automatic spending cuts; including those related to the federal debt ceiling and the so-called "fiscal cliff".-15-Table of ContentsOur contracts with government entities are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The U.S. government as well as state and local governments can typically terminate or modify their contracts with us either for their convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and impede our ability to compete in the future for contracts and orders with agencies and departments at all levels of government. Moreover, we are subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export controls, employment practices, the accuracy of records and reporting of costs. If we were found to not be a responsible supplier or to have committed fraud or certain criminal offenses, we could be suspended or debarred from all further federal, state or local government contracting.Increased government focus on enforcement may significantly increase our operating costs.The federal government has increased its focus on enforcement under a wide range of laws and regulations impacting our business, particularly in the following areas:•antitrust and competition;•foreign corrupt practices;•government contracting;•securities and public company reporting;•labor and employment practices;•fraud and abuse; and•tax reporting.Should we become the target of a government investigation or enforcement action, we could incur significant costs and suffer damage to our reputation which could adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition.Our implementation and use of a new business software system, and accompanying transformation of our business processes, could result in problems that could negatively impact our business and results of operations.We are engaged in a multi-year, company-wide program to implement new integrated software systems (the "System") to support and streamline our business processes. We expect implementation of the System will require transformation of business and financial processes to realize the full benefits of the project. Significant efforts are required to design, test and implement the System, requiring investment of resources, including additional selling, general and administrative and capital expenditures. There can be no assurance other issues relating to System implementation will not occur, including compatibility issues, integration challenges and delays, and higher than expected implementation costs. Additionally, when implemented, the System could function improperly or not deliver the projected benefits, which could significantly disrupt our business, including our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, invoice customers, process payments, generate management and financial reports and otherwise run our business. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience problems related to the System. We rely on information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business. In the ordinary course of business, we rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage numerous aspects of our business and provide information to management. Additionally, we collect and store sensitive data of our customers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information, is critical to our business operations and strategy. These networks and systems, despite security and precautionary measures, are vulnerable to, among other things, damage and interruption from power loss or natural disasters, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunications services, physical and electronic loss of data, security breaches, hackers and employee misuse. We may face unauthorized attempts by hackers seeking to harm us or as a result of industrial espionage to penetrate our network security and gain access to our network, steal proprietary data, including design, sales or personally identifiable information, introduce malicious software or interrupt our internal systems, manufacturing or distribution. Though we attempt to prevent and detect these incidents, we may not be successful. Any disruption of our information technology networks or systems, or access to or disclosure of information stored in or transmitted by our systems, could result in legal claims and damages, disrupt operations, result in competitive disadvantage and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.-16-Table of ContentsNatural disasters, acts of God, force majeure events or other catastrophic events may impact the Corporation's production capacity and, in turn, negatively impact profitability.Natural disasters, acts of God, force majeure events or other catastrophic events, including severe weather, military action, terrorist attacks, power interruptions and fires, could disrupt operations and likewise the ability to produce or deliver our products. Several of our production facilities, members and key management are located within a small geographic area in eastern Iowa and a natural disaster or catastrophe in the area could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and business conditions. Further, several of our production facilities are single-site manufacturers of certain products, and an adverse event affecting any of those facilities could significantly delay production of certain products and adversely affect our operations and business conditions. Members are an integral part of our business and events such as an epidemic could reduce the availability of members reporting for work. In the event we experience a temporary or permanent interruption in our ability to produce or deliver product, revenues could be reduced, and business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any continuing disruption in our computer system could adversely affect our ability to receive and process customers orders, manufacture products and ship products on a timely basis and could adversely affect relations with customers, potentially resulting in reduction in orders from customers or loss of customers. We maintain insurance to help protect us from costs relating to some of these events, but it may not be sufficient or paid in a timely manner in the event we suffer such an event.Our business is subject to a number of other miscellaneous risks that may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.Other miscellaneous risks include, without limitation:•reduced demand for our storage products caused by changes in office technology, including the change from paper record storage to electronic record storage;•our ability to realize cost savings and productivity improvements from our cost containment, business simplification, manufacturing consolidation and logistical realignment initiatives;•volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities may adversely affect the market price for our common stock;•our ability to protect our intellectual property, including trade secrets and key business operations data;•labor or other manufacturing inefficiencies due to items such as new product introductions, a new operating system or turnover in personnel;•our ability to effectively manage working capital and maintain our effective tax rate;•potential claims by third parties that we infringed upon their intellectual property rights;•our insurance may not adequately (1) insulate us from expenses for product defects and the negligent acts and omissions of our members and agents and (2) compensate us for damages to our facilities and equipment and loss of business; and•our ability to retain our experienced management team and recruit other key personnel.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.-17-Table of Contents