ITEM 1A Risk Factors Our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to those set forth below. Any one of these factors could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or future anticipated results. See also Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis — “Executive Overview of the Business”, “Outlook”, and “Results of Operations”. We operate in markets that are subject to competitive pressures that could affect selling prices or demand for our products. We compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price. Our competitive strategy is to design and manufacture high quality products at the lowest possible cost. Our competitors include companies that have greater sales and financial resources than our Company. Competition could affect future selling prices or demand for our products. Global economic uncertainty could adversely affect us. During periods of global economic uncertainty, we could experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. We manufacture and/or source products and materials from various countries throughout the world. A disruption in the availability, price, or quality of these products or materials could impact our operating results. We use a variety of raw materials in the production of our products including steel, aluminum, brass, copper, bronze, zinc, nickel and plastics. We also purchase certain electrical and electronic components, including lighting ballasts, printed circuit boards and integrated circuit chips from third party providers. Significant shortages of these materials or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products which would directly impact our results of operations. We continue to increase the amount of product materials, components and finished goods that are sourced from or manufactured in foreign countries including Mexico, China, and other countries in Asia. Political instability in any country where we do business could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, Mexico has recently experienced a period of increasing criminal violence. As a result, events could occur that could potentially restrict our ability to operate our Mexican manufacturing facilities and transport our products out of the country. We rely on our suppliers to produce high quality materials, components and finished goods according to our specifications. Although we have quality control procedures in place, there is a risk that products may not meet our specifications which could impact our ability to ship high quality products to our customers on a timely basis and this could adversely impact our results of operations. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We engage in acquisitions and strategic investments and may encounter difficulty in obtaining appropriate acquisitions and in integrating these businesses. We have pursued and will continue to seek potential acquisitions and other strategic investments to complement and expand our existing businesses within our core markets. The rate and extent to which appropriate acquisitions become available may impact our growth rate. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate these businesses into our operations. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions into our operations and in managing strategic investments. Therefore, we may not realize the degree or timing of expected synergies and benefits anticipated when we first enter into a transaction. We are subject to risks surrounding our information systems. The proper functioning of Hubbell’s information systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Although our information systems are protected with robust backup and security systems, these systems are still susceptible to outages due to fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, break-ins and similar events or breaches of security. A failure of our information technology systems could impact our ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventory, collect accounts receivable and/or pay expenses; all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have continued to work on improving our understanding and utilization of our enterprise resource planning system, standardizing business processes and performing implementations at our remaining businesses. We expect to incur additional costs related to future implementations, process reengineering efforts as well as for enhancements and upgrades to the system. These system modifications/implementations could result in operating inefficiencies which could impact our operating results and/or our ability to perform necessary business transactions. HUBBELL INCORPORATED – Form 10-K 7 Back to Contents A deterioration in the credit quality of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have an extensive customer base of distributors and wholesalers, electric utilities, OEMs, electrical contractors, telecommunications companies, and retail and hardware outlets. We are not dependent on a single customer, however, our top ten customers account for approximately one-third of our net sales. A deterioration in credit quality of several major customers could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Inability to access capital markets may adversely affect our business. Our ability to invest in our business and make strategic acquisitions may require access to the capital markets. If general economic and capital market conditions deteriorate significantly, it could adversely impact access to the capital markets. This could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have two classes of common stock with different voting rights, which results in a concentration of voting power of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, the holders of our Class A common stock (with 20 votes per share) held approximately 73% of the voting power represented by all outstanding shares of our common stock and approximately 11% of the Company’s total equity value, and the Hubbell Trust and Roche Trust collectively held approximately 49% of our Class A common stock. The holders of the Class A common stock thus are in a position to influence matters that are brought to a vote of the holders of our common stock, including, among others, the election of the board of directors, any amendments to our charter documents, and the approval of material transactions. In order to further the interests of our shareholders, the Company routinely reviews various alternatives to meet its capital structure objectives, including equity, reclassification and debt transactions. We are subject to litigation and environmental regulations that may adversely impact our operating results. We are a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability, intellectual property and environmental matters, which could be significant. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of every claim and lawsuit. We could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain claims, such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against such claims. We establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies, including contingencies related to legal claims asserted against us. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and require us to make additional material payments, which could have an adverse effect on our results and/or operations. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for clean up or other costs or damages under environmental laws. In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns. Compliance with any future laws and regulations could result in an adverse affect on our business and financial results. New regulations related to conflict-free minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and may create challenges with our customers. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries “(DRC”). The SEC has established new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use “conflict” minerals sourced from the DRC in their products. These new requirements could limit the pool of suppliers who can provide conflict-free minerals and as a result, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain these conflict-free minerals at competitive prices. Compliance with these new requirements may also increase our costs. In addition, we may face challenges with our customers if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals used in our products. Health care reform could adversely affect our operating results. In 2010, the United States federal government enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation. Due to the breadth and complexity of this legislation, as well as its phased-in nature of implementation and lack of interpretive guidance, it is difficult for the Company to predict the overall effects it will have on our business over the coming years. To date, the Company has not experienced material costs related to the health care reform legislation, however it is possible that our operating results could be adversely affected in the future by increased costs, expanded liability exposure and requirements that change the ways we provide healthcare and other benefits to our employees. We face the potential harms of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create political or economic instability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, or disrupt our supply chain. HUBBELL INCORPORATED – Form 10-K 8 Back to Contents ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None 