Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to those set forth below. Any one of these factors could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or future anticipated results. See also Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis — “Executive Overview of the Business”, “Outlook”, and “Results of Operations”. We operate in markets that are subject to competitive pressures that could affect selling prices or demand for our products. We compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price. Our competitive strategy is to design and manufacture high quality products at the lowest possible cost. Our competitors include companies that have greater sales and financial resources than our Company. Competition could affect future selling prices or demand for our products. A global recession and continued worldwide credit constraints could adversely affect us. Recent global economic events, including concerns over the tight credit markets and failures or material business deterioration of financial institutions and other entities, have resulted in a continued concern regarding the global recession. If these conditions continue or worsen, we could experience additional declines in revenues, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. We source products and materials from various suppliers located in countries throughout the world. A disruption in the availability, price, or quality of these products could impact our operating results. We use a variety of raw materials in the production of our products including steel, aluminum, brass, copper, bronze, zinc, nickel and plastics. We have multiple sources of supply for these products and are not dependent on any single supplier. However, significant shortages of these materials or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products which would directly impact our results of operations. We continue to increase the amount of product materials, components and finished goods that are sourced from low cost countries including Mexico, the People’s Republic of China, and other countries in Asia. A political disruption or significant changes related to transportation to and/or from one of these countries could affect the availability of these materials and components which would directly impact our results of operations. We rely on our suppliers in low cost countries to produce high quality materials, components and finished goods according to our specifications. Although we have quality control procedures in place, there is a risk that products may not meet our specifications which could impact our ability to ship high quality products to our customers on a timely basis and this could adversely impact our results of operations. We engage in acquisitions and strategic investments and may encounter difficulty in obtaining appropriate acquisitions and in integrating these businesses. We have pursued and will continue to seek potential acquisitions and other strategic investments to complement and expand our existing businesses within our core markets. The rate and extent to which appropriate acquisitions become available may impact our growth rate. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate these businesses into our operations. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions into our operations and in managing strategic investments. Therefore, we may not realize the degree or timing of expected synergies and benefits anticipated when we first enter into a transaction. 8 Table of Contents Our operating results may be impacted by actions related to our enterprise-wide business system. As of the end of 2006, the SAP software implementation had been completed throughout the majority of our domestic businesses. Since then, we have continued to work on standardizing business processes and improving our understanding and utilization of the system. Based upon the complexity of this system, there is risk that we will continue to incur additional costs to enhance the system, perform process reengineering and future implementations at our remaining businesses and post 2006 acquisitions. Any future reengineering or implementations could result in operating inefficiencies which could impact our operating results or our ability to perform necessary business transactions. A deterioration in the credit quality of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have an extensive customer base of distributors and wholesalers, electric utilities, OEMs, electrical contractors, telecommunications companies, and retail and hardware outlets. We are not dependent on a single customer, however, our top 10 customers account for approximately 35% of our total accounts receivable. A deterioration in credit quality of several major customers could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Inability to access capital markets may adversely affect our business. Our ability to invest in our business and make strategic acquisitions may require access to the capital markets. If we are unable to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse affect on our business and financial results. We have two classes of common stock with different voting rights, which results in a concentration of voting power of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, the holders of our Class A common stock (with 20 votes per share) held approximately 73% of the voting power represented by all outstanding shares of our common stock and approximately 12% of the Company’s total equity value, and the Hubbell Trust and Roche Trust collectively held approximately 49% of our Class A common stock. The holders of the Class A common stock thus are in a position to influence matters that are brought to a vote of the holders of our common stock, including, among others, the election of the board of directors, any amendments to our charter documents, and the approval of material transactions. In order to further the interests of our shareholders, the Company routinely reviews various alternatives to meet its capital structure objectives, including equity, reclassification and debt transactions. We are subject to litigation and environmental regulations that may adversely impact our operating results. We are, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability, patent and environmental matters, which could be significant. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that a future adverse development related to existing litigation or any future litigation will not have a material adverse impact to our business. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for clean up or other costs or damages under environmental laws. In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns. Compliance with any future laws and regulations could result in an adverse affect on our business and financial results. We face the potential harms of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create political or economic instability, any of which could 9 Table of Contents have an adverse effect on our business. Although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, or disrupt our supply chain. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 