Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to those set forth below. Any one of these factors could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or future anticipated results. See also Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis — “Executive Overview of the Business”, “Outlook”, and “Results of Operations”. We operate in markets that are subject to competitive pressures that could affect selling prices or demand for our products. We compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price. Our competitive strategy is to design and manufacture high quality products at the lowest possible cost. Our competitors include companies that have greater sales and financial resources than our Company. Competition could affect future selling prices or demand for our products. Lower levels of economic activity in our end markets could adversely affect our operating results. Our businesses operate in several market segments including commercial, industrial, residential, utility and telecommunications. Operating results can be negatively impacted by volatility in these markets. Future downturns in any of the markets we serve could also adversely affect our overall sales and profitability. We source products and materials from various suppliers located in countries throughout the world. A disruption in the availability, price, or quality of these products could impact our operating results. We use a variety of raw materials in the production of our products including steel, brass, copper, aluminum, bronze, zinc, nickel and plastics. We have multiple sources of supply for these products and are not dependent on any single supplier. However, significant shortages of these materials or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products which would directly impact our results of operations. We continue to increase the amount of product materials, components and finished goods which are sourced from low cost countries including Mexico, China, and other countries in Asia. A political disruption or significant changes related to transportation from one of these countries could affect the availability of these materials and components which would directly impact our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We rely on our suppliers in low cost countries to produce high quality materials, components and finished goods according to our specifications. Although we have quality control procedures in place, there is a risk that products may not meet our specifications which could impact the ability to ship high quality products to our customers on a timely basis and this could adversely impact our results of operations. We engage in acquisitions and strategic investments and may encounter difficulty in obtaining appropriate acquisitions and in integrating these businesses. We have pursued and will continue to seek potential acquisitions and other strategic investments to complement and expand our existing businesses within our core markets. The rate and extent to which appropriate acquisitions become available may impact our growth rate. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate these businesses into our operations. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions into our operations and in managing strategic investments. Therefore, we may not realize the degree or timing of the benefits anticipated when we first enter into a transaction. Our operating results may be impacted by actions related to our enterprise-wide business system initiative. Our implementation of SAP software throughout most of our domestic businesses is substantially complete. We continue to work on standardization of business processes and better utilization and understanding of the system. Based upon the complexity of this system, there is risk that we will continue to incur additional costs to enhance the system, perform process reengineering and perform future implementations at our remaining businesses. Any future reengineering or implementations could result in operating inefficiencies which could impact our operating results or our ability to perform necessary business transactions. These risks could adversely impact our operating results. A deterioration in the credit quality of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have an extensive customer base of distributors and wholesalers, electric utilities, OEMs, electrical contractors, telecommunications companies, and retail and hardware outlets. We are not dependent on a single customer, however, our top 10 customers account for approximately 30% of our total accounts receivable. A deterioration in credit quality of several major customers could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to litigation and environmental regulations that may adversely impact our operating results. We are, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability and environmental matters, which could be significant. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that a future adverse development related to existing litigation or any future litigation will not have a material adverse impact. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for clean up or other costs or damages under environmental laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 9 Table of Contents 