RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to significant risks. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and in the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements filed as part of this report. If any of the events described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a highly competitive marketplace, which may result in decreased demand or prices for our products. The wholesale construction, repair and maintenance distribution industry is highly competitive and fragmented. The principal competitive factors in our business include, but are not limited to: – Availability of, and ability to deliver, materials and supplies; – Technical product knowledge and expertise as to application and usage; – Advisory or other service capabilities; – Ability to build and maintain customer relationships; – Effective use of technology to identify sales and operational opportunities; – Pricing of products; and – Availability of credit. Our competition includes other wholesalers and manufacturers that sell products directly to their respective customer base and some of our customers that resell our products. To a limited extent, retailers in the markets for plumbing, electrical fixtures and supplies, building materials, MRO supplies and contractors’ tools also compete with us. Competition varies depending on product line, customer classification and geographic market. We may not be successful in responding effectively to competitive pressures, particularly from competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Furthermore, because of the fragmented nature of the markets in which we operate, we are also susceptible to being underbid by local competition. Delays in the implementation of our new Hughes Unified operating system, or interruptions in the proper functioning of our information systems, could disrupt our operations and cause unanticipated increases in our costs. We continue to implement our Hughes Unified operating system and expect implementation to be completed for our existing Hughes businesses within the next year. Subsequent acquisitions could extend the time frame an additional year for those businesses exclusively. We believe that this time frame will enable us to reduce implementation-related risk, minimize customer disruption, reduce system outages and disruptions and spread implementation costs. Delays in the successful implementation of the new systems or their failure to meet our expectations could result in adverse consequences, including disruption of operations or unanticipated increases in costs. In addition, the proper functioning of our information systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Although we protect our information systems through physical and software safeguards and we have back-up remote processing capabilities, these information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, telecommunications failures, physical or internet access intrusions and similar events. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, we would have to accomplish these functions manually, which could temporarily affect our ability to process orders, identify business opportunities, maintain proper levels of inventories, bill accounts receivable and pay expenses. We rely heavily on our key personnel and the loss of one or more of these individuals could harm our ability to carry out our business strategy. We believe that our ability to implement our business strategy and our continued success will largely depend upon the efforts, skills, abilities and judgment of our executive management team. Our success also depends to a significant degree upon our ability to recruit and retain our highly knowledgeable and skilled sales personnel and our sales and marketing, operations and other senior managers. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining these employees or in managing our growth successfully, which may in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12. Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS We may not be able to efficiently or effectively integrate newly-acquired businesses into our business or achieve expected profitability from our acquisitions. Integrating newly-acquired businesses involves a number of risks, including: – Unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems; – Problems assimilating and retaining the employees of the acquired company or our employees; – Challenges in retaining customers of the acquired company or our customers following the acquisition; – Problems implementing disclosure controls and procedures; – Unforeseen difficulties extending internal control over financial reporting and performing the required assessment at the newly-acquired business; – Potential adverse short-term effects on operating results through increased costs or otherwise; and – The possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by integration activities and related problem-solving. If we are unable to effectively integrate strategic acquisitions, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to achieve our enhanced profitability goals. We have set goals to progressively improve our profitability ratio over time by enhancing our gross margin ratio and reducing our expense ratio. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our enhanced profitability goals. Factors that could significantly adversely affect our efforts to achieve these goals include, but are not limited to, the following: – Failure to improve our revenue mix by investing (including through acquisitions) in businesses that provide higher margins than we have been able to generate historically; – Failure to increase our rebates from vendors through our vendor consolidation initiatives; – Failure to improve our ability to manage prices with customers through the utilization of improved information technology; – Failure to reduce our overhead and support expenses following the full implementation of our new advanced distribution operating and financial management systems; and – Delays in implementing, or unexpected costs associated with, the continued rationalization of our branch distribution and support network. Our results of operations are affected by changes in commodity prices and product demand. Rising commodity prices can have a positive effect on our gross margins in periods of strong product demand or a negative effect when product demand is weak. During periods of rapid price decline, particularly during periods of weak demand, our net sales and gross margins could be negatively affected. As the value of our inventories and related cost of sales are determined by the moving average cost method, the impact of any commodity price changes on our cost of sales will generally occur later than the impact resulting from such changes on our net sales. Our financial results in fiscal year 2005 benefited from the effect of rising prices in the major commodities used in products we distribute, together with strong product demand. If we are negatively impacted by the factors described above, we may not be able to maintain the level of gross margins experienced in fiscal year 2005. We have substantial fixed costs and, as a result, our operating income is sensitive to changes in our net sales. A significant portion of our expenses are fixed costs, which do not fluctuate with net sales. Consequently, a percentage decline in our net sales has a greater percentage effect on our operating income. Any decline in our net sales could cause our profitability to be adversely affected. Moreover, a key element of our strategy is managing our assets, including our substantial fixed assets, more effectively, including through sales or other disposals of excess assets. Though we have been able to successfully leverage and manage our fixed assets in fiscal year 2005 through several sale-leaseback transactions and other asset disposals, our failure to rationalize our fixed assets in the time and within the costs we expect could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Because our business is working capital intensive, we rely on our ability to manage our product purchasing and customer credit policies. Our operations are working capital intensive, and our investments in inventories, accounts receivable and accounts payable are significant components of our net asset base. We manage our inventories and accounts payable through our purchasing policies and our accounts receivable through our customer credit policies. Approximately 94% of our net sales are credit sales, and although we take measures to secure lien and bond rights, where available, our customers’ ability to pay may depend on the economic strength of the construction industry and regional economies. If we fail to adequately manage our product purchasing or customer credit policies, our working capital and financial condition may be adversely affected. 13. Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS We depend on our vendors for materials and supplies. Unexpected product shortages could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In total, we purchase materials and supplies from over 12,000 manufacturers and other vendors, no one of which accounted for more than 5% of our total material and supply purchases during fiscal 2005. Despite this widely diversified base of manufacturers and vendors, we may still experience shortages as a result of unexpected industry demand or production difficulties. If this were to occur and we were unable to obtain a sufficient allocation of products from other manufacturers and vendors, there could be a short-term adverse effect on our results of operations and a long-term adverse effect on our customer relationships and reputation. In addition, we have strategic relationships with key vendors. In the event we are unable to maintain those relationships, we may lose some of the competitive pricing advantages that those relationships offer us, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be successful in identifying and consummating future acquisitions, which is an important element of our business strategy. We intend to continue to grow, in part, through strategic acquisitions. We compete with a number of other companies in pursuing acquisitions, and some of those competitors may be more successful than us in completing future strategic acquisitions. Moreover, acquisitions we propose to make may be subject to antitrust reviews and may face other regulatory challenges. In addition, we may require additional debt or equity financing to fund future acquisitions, and financing may not be available or may only be available on terms we consider unfavorable. As a result of these and other factors, our ability to identify and consummate future acquisitions is uncertain. If we become subject to material liabilities under our self-insured programs, our financial results may be adversely affected. We provide workers’ compensation, automobile and product/general liability coverage through a program that is partially self-insured. In addition, we provide medical coverage to our employees through a partially self-insured preferred provider organization. Though we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage in excess of self-insured retention levels, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if the number and severity of insurance claims increase. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to operate our business, obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. As of January 31, 2005, our outstanding indebtedness was $545.7 million compared to shareholders’ equity of $1.25 billion. Our debt level may restrict our pursuit of new acquisition opportunities, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and prevent us from obtaining additional financing. Our failure to make required debt payments could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness, causing our outstanding indebtedness to become immediately due and payable. In addition, our revolving credit agreement requires us to meet specific financial and financial ratio tests on an ongoing basis. Our failure to meet those tests could limit our ability to borrow additional funds under that agreement and could result in an event of default, which, if left uncured, could lead to an acceleration of our indebtedness. We use those borrowings for working capital and general corporate purposes. A limitation on our ability to obtain additional revolving loans could materially and adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Industry Our operating results depend on the strength of the general economy, which is beyond our control. Demand for our products and services depend to a significant degree on construction, repair and maintenance spending in the commercial, residential, industrial and public infrastructure markets. The level of activity in these end-markets depends on a variety of factors that we cannot control, including: – In the commercial market, vacancy rates, interest rates, the availability of financing and regional and general economic conditions; – In the residential market, new housing starts and residential renovation projects, which are influenced by interest rates, availability of financing, housing affordability, unemployment, demographic trends, gross domestic product growth and consumer confidence; – In the industrial market, capital spending, the industrial economic outlook, corporate profitability, interest rates and capacity utilization; and – In the public infrastructure market, interest rates, availability of public funds and general economic conditions. Weather conditions can also affect the timing of construction and the demand for our products and services. Although we have diversified our business to reduce our exposure to the seasonality and cyclicality of the construction markets 14. Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS through our focus on expanding our MRO and other replacement-related businesses, we continue to be sensitive to changes in the economy, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are especially susceptible to economic fluctuations in Florida, Texas, Georgia, North Carolina, California and Arizona, which collectively accounted for approximately 64% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal year 2005. Fluctuating commodity prices may adversely impact our operating results. The cost of steel, aluminum, copper, nickel alloys, polyvinyl chloride (pvc) and other commodities used in products distributed by us can be volatile. Market demand for these products drives cost volatility, and market demand is beyond our control. Although we attempt to pass increased costs to our customers, we are not always able to do so quickly or at all. Significant fluctuations in the cost of such commodities have adversely affected and in the future may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The movement of manufacturing facilities overseas may adversely affect our operating results. The U.S. manufacturing industry has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, a shift in production to overseas facilities. This shift has resulted in the closings of existing facilities in the United States, which from time to time has reduced, and may in the future reduce, the amount of our business in our Industrial PVF segment. If additional U.S. operations of our customers are moved overseas or if new plant construction in the United States continues to decline, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our quarterly results are seasonal and may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our operating results are seasonal. Historically, we have experienced lower operating results in the first and fourth quarters than in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year. Seasonal weather conditions, such as cold or wet weather, can also delay construction projects, further contributing to quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. If our financial results for a quarter fall below investors’ expectations, the market price of our common stock may decline, perhaps significantly. Dividend payments are restricted and within the discretion of our Board of Directors. The payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors, after taking into account various factors, including earnings, capital requirements and surplus, financial position, contractual restrictions and other relevant business considerations. We are also party to debt instruments and agreements that contain provisions limiting the amount of dividends that we may pay. In the future, we may become a party to debt instruments or agreements that further restrict our ability to pay dividends. Moreover, our Board may decide not to pay, or to reduce the amount of, dividends even when the aforementioned factors are positive. Our stock price may fluctuate substantially. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “HUG.” The market price of our stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including our operating results, availability of capital, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets, the wholesale construction, repair and maintenance industry or other developments affecting us, our customers or our competitors, some of which may be unrelated to our performance. Those fluctuations and demand for our products may adversely affect the price of our stock. In addition, if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of investors, our stock price could decline. Furthermore, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in our industry. These fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. The volatility also could impair our ability in the future to offer common stock as a source of additional capital or as consideration in the acquisition of other businesses. Certain anti-takeover provisions may make our stock less attractive to investors. Certain provisions of our restated articles of incorporation, as amended, Florida law and our shareholders’ rights plan may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a controlling interest in us, even if a change in control would benefit shareholders. These provisions may delay or prevent transactions in which shareholders would receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-prevailing market prices. These provisions may also limit shareholders’ ability to approve transactions they may otherwise believe are in their best interests. In particular, these provisions include a provision dividing the Board of Directors into three classes of directors elected for staggered three-year terms; a provision authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without shareholder approval; and a 15. Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS provision requiring that certain business combinations receive approval by two-thirds of our shares of voting stock. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports available on our website, www.hughessupply.com, under “Investor Relations,” free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. During the period covered by this report, we posted our periodic reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those documents to our website as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports were filed or furnished electronically with the SEC. The filings are also available through the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20549, by calling 1-800-SEC-0330, or on the internet at www.sec.gov. 16. Table of Contents 