ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General Risks of Our Regulated Operations We may not be able to recover the costs of our substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions. (Applies to each registrant.) Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades and retrofits, construction and/or acquisition of additional generation units and transmission facilities, modernizing existing infrastructure as well as other initiatives. Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. If these regulatory commissions do not approve adjustments to the rates we charge, we would not be able to recover the costs associated with our planned extensive investment. This would cause our financial results to be diminished. While we may seek to limit the impact of any denied recovery by attempting to reduce the scope of our capital investment, there can be no assurance as to the effectiveness of any such mitigation efforts, particularly with respect to previously incurred costs and commitments. Our planned capital investment program coincides with a material increase in the price of the fuels used to generate electricity. Many of our jurisdictions have fuel clauses that permit us to recover these increased fuel costs through rates without a general rate case. While prudent capital investment and variable fuel costs each generally warrant recovery, in practical terms our regulators could limit the amount or timing of increased costs that we would recover through higher rates. Any such limitation could cause our financial results to be diminished. Our request for rate recovery of additional costs may not be approved in Virginia. (Applies to AEP and APCo.) APCo filed a request with the VSCC in May 2006 seeking a net increase in base rates of $198 million to recover increasing costs, including a return on equity of 11.5%. APCo also requested to apply its off-system sales margins (currently credited to customers through base rates) to the fuel factor where they can be adjusted annually. APCo also requested to retain a portion of the off-system sales margins. In May 2006, the VSCC issued an order placing the net requested base rate increase into effect as of October 2, 2006, subject to refund. In October 2006, the VSCC staff filed direct testimony recommending a base rate increase of $13 million with a return on equity of 9.9% and no off-system sales margin sharing. Other intervenors have recommended base rate increases ranging from $42 million to $112 million. APCo has filed rebuttal testimony and hearings were held in December 2006. If the VSCC denies the requested rate recovery, it could adversely impact future results of operations and cash flows. Our request for rate recovery of additional costs may not be approved in Texas. (Applies to AEP, TCC and TNC.) TCC and TNC have filed requests with the PUCT to increase their transmission and distribution rates. The rate requests include the amounts charged for the delivery of electricity over TCC´s and TNC´s transmission and distribution lines. TCC is seeking approval of an $81 million increase, which includes the expiration of $20 million in billing credits that the PUCT required in approving the merger of CSW into AEP. The credits have been in place since 2000. TNC is seeking approval of a $25 million increase, which includes the expiration of $6.2 million in billing credits. TCC and TNC are requesting a return on equity of 11.25% with a capital structure of approximately 60% debt/40% equity. If the PUCT denies the requested rate recovery, it could adversely impact future results of operations and cash flows. Our request for rate recovery of additional costs may not be approved in Oklahoma. (Applies to AEP and PSO.) PSO filed a request with the OCC in November, 2006 seeking approval of a $50 million overall increase in base rates, an annually adjusted rate mechanism to recover the expected significant investment PSO will be making in new facilities, several new and restructured tariffs to allow PSO to begin to reduce the relationship between its revenues and its sales volumes, and to implement some demand side management tariffs. PSO´s planned investments over the next five years include new generation facilities ($1.12 billion), new and refurbished transmission substations and lines ($302 million) and new distribution lines and equipment ($582 million). If the OCC denies the requested rate recovery, it could adversely impact future results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to recover all of our fuel costs in Indiana. (Applies to AEP and I&M.) I&M entered into a settlement agreement which the IURC approved in 2005. The approved settlement caps fuel rates through June 2007 at increasing rates during agreed-upon intervals. I&M has experienced a cumulative under-recovery of fuel costs through December 2006. If future fuel costs through June 30, 2007 continue to exceed the agreed-upon caps, future results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. The rates that SWEPCo may charge its customers may be reduced. (Applies to SWEPCo.) At the time of the CSW merger, SWEPCO agreed to file with the LPSC detailed financial information typically utilized in a revenue requirement filing on a periodic basis in order to demonstrate the lack of adverse impact from the merger. The first such filing was in October 2002 and the second was in April 2004. Both filings indicated SWEPCo’s rates should not be reduced. In April 2006, the LPSC and SWEPCo agreed to update the financial information based on a 2005 test year. SWEPCo filed financial review schedules in May 2006 showing a return on equity of 9.44% compared to the previously authorized return on equity of 11.1%. In July 2006, consultants to the LPSC staff filed direct testimony recommending a base rate reduction in the range of $12 million to $20 million for SWEPCo’s Louisiana jurisdiction customers, which included a 10% return on equity. The recommended reduction range is subject to SWEPCo validating certain on-going operations and maintenance expense levels and the recommended base rate reduction does not include the impact of a proposed consolidated federal income tax adjustment, which would increase the proposed rate reduction. SWEPCo filed rebuttal testimony in October 2006 refuting the consultants’ recommendations. In December 2006, the LPSC staff’s consultants filed reply testimony asserting that SWEPCo’s Louisiana base rates are excessive by $17 million which includes a proposed return on equity of 9.8%. SWEPCo filed testimony in the first quarter of 2007. Hearings are expected to occur in early 2007. A decision is expected in mid-to-late 2007. At this time, management is unable to predict the outcome of this proceeding. If a rate reduction were ultimately ordered, it would adversely impact future results of operations and cash flows. The amount that PSO seeks to recover for fuel costs is currently being reviewed. (Applies to PSO.) In 2002, PSO experienced a $44 million under-recovery of fuel costs resulting from a reallocation among AEP West companies of purchased power costs for periods prior to January 1, 2002. In July 2003, PSO filed with the OCC offering to collect the under-recovery over 18 months. An intervenor, the staff of the OCC and the Attorney General of Oklahoma have made filings indicating that recovery should be reduced substantially or disallowed altogether. These filings disputed the allocation of AEP System off-system sales margins pursuant to an agreement approved by FERC. In September 2003, the OCC expanded the case to include a full review of PSO’s 2001 fuel and purchased power practices. The allocation issue was referred to an ALJ. The ALJ recommended that the OCC lacks authority to examine whether PSO deviated from the FERC allocation methodology and that any such complaints should be addressed at the FERC. The OCC conducted a hearing on the jurisdictional matter in January 2005 but has not issued a decision. If the OCC determines, as a result of the review, that a portion of PSO’s fuel and purchased power costs should not be recovered, there could be an adverse effect on PSO’s results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition. The internal allocation of AEP System off-system sales margins has been challenged. (Applies to APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KPCo and OPCo.) Off-system sales margins are allocated among the AEP System companies pursuant to a FERC-approved agreement among those companies entered into at the time of the merger with CSW. In November 2005, we filed with the FERC a proposed allocation methodology to be used in 2006 and beyond. The original allocations have been challenged in different forums, including PSO’s fuel clause recovery proceeding before the OCC. In general, the challenges assert that AEP West companies, acquired in the merger with CSW, are being allocated a disproportionately small amount of the off-system sales margins. An ALJ in the OCC proceeding and, separately, a federal district court in Texas have each held that the FERC is the only appropriate adjudicator of such challenges. This holding has been affirmed by a federal appellate court. No proceeding questioning the allocation of our off-system sales is currently before the FERC; the OCC, however, has yet to rule on whether it has jurisdiction over this issue. If the FERC or another entity of competent authority were to retroactively allocate additional off-system sales margins to the AEP West companies, the AEP East companies may be required to pay money to the AEP West companies. Any such payments could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition of the AEP East companies. The base rates that certain of our utilities charge are currently capped or frozen. (Applies to AEP, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo.) Base rates charged to customers in Michigan and Ohio are currently either frozen or capped. To the extent our costs in these states exceed the applicable cap or frozen rate, those costs are not recoverable from customers. Certain of our revenues and results of operations are subject to risks that are beyond our control. (Applies to each registrant.) Unless mitigated by timely and adequate regulatory recovery, the cost of repairing damage to our utility facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events, in excess of insurance coverage, when applicable, may adversely impact our revenues, operating and capital expenses and results of operations. Such events may also create additional risks related to the supply and/or cost of equipment and materials. We are exposed to nuclear generation risk. (Applies to AEP and I&M.) Through I&M, we own the Cook Plant. It consists of two nuclear generating units for a rated capacity of 2,143 MW, or 6% of our generation capacity. We are, therefore, subject to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the following: · the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials such as spent nuclear fuel; · limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations; · uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessment amounts if insurance coverage is inadequate (federal law requires owners of nuclear units to purchase the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance and potentially contribute to the losses of others); and, · uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives. There can be no assurance that I&M’s preparations or risk mitigation measures will be adequate if and when these risks are triggered. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants such as ours. In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our plants, if an incident did occur, it could harm our results of operations or financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. Moreover, a major incident at a nuclear facility in the U.S. could require us to make material contributory payments. The different regional power markets in which we compete or will compete in the future have changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect our performance in these regions. (Applies to each registrant.) Our results are likely to be affected by differences in the market and transmission regulatory structures in various regional power markets. Problems or delays that may arise in the operation of new regional transmission organization (RTO) power markets, may restrict our ability to sell power produced by our generating capacity to certain markets if there is insufficient transmission capacity available to fully support market operation. The rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time which could affect our costs or revenues. Because it remains unclear which companies will be participating in the various regional power markets, or the manner in which RTOs will evolve or the regions they will cover, we are unable to assess fully the impact that these power markets may have on our business. AEP East companies joined PJM on October 1, 2004. SWEPCo and PSO are members of SPP. In February 2004, FERC granted RTO status to SPP, subject to fulfilling specified requirements. In October 2004, the FERC issued an order granting final RTO status to SPP subject to certain filings. The LPSC has ordered the utilities subject to its jurisdiction, including SWEPCo, to analyze and submit to them the costs and benefits of RTO options available to the utilities. Certain states in the region have undertaken and released a study investigating the costs and benefits of SPP developing into a RTO that administers energy and associated markets. To the extent we are faced with conflicting state and Federal requirements as to our participation in RTOs, it could adversely affect our ability to operate and recover transmission costs from retail customers. Management is unable to predict the outcome of these transmission regulatory actions and proceedings or their impact on the timing and operation of RTOs, our transmission operations or future results of operations and cash flows. The amount we charged third parties for using our transmission facilities has been reduced, is subject to refund and may not be completely restored in the future. (Applies to AEP and AEP East companies.) In July 2003, the FERC issued an order directing PJM and the MISO to make compliance filings for their respective tariffs to eliminate the transaction-based charges for through and out (T&O) transmission service on transactions where the energy is delivered within those RTOs. The elimination of the T&O rates reduces the transmission service revenues collected by the RTOs and thereby reduces the revenues received by transmission owners under the RTOs’ revenue distribution protocols. To mitigate the impact of lost T&O revenues, the FERC approved temporary replacement seams elimination cost allocation (SECA) transition rates beginning in December 2004 and extending through March 2006. Intervenors objected to this decision; therefore the SECA fees we collected ($220 million) are subject to refund. Approximately $19 million of the SECA revenues that we billed were never collected. The AEP East zone public utilities filed a motion with the FERC to force payment of these SECA billings. A hearing was held in May 2006 to determine whether any of the SECA revenues should be refunded. In August 2006, the ALJ issued an initial decision, finding that the rate design for the recovery of SECA charges was flawed and that a large portion of the “lost revenues” reflected in the SECA rates were not recoverable. The ALJ found that the SECA rates charged were unfair, unjust and discriminatory, and that new compliance filings and refunds should be made. The ALJ also found that unpaid SECA rates must be paid in the recommended reduced amount. The FERC has not ruled on the matter. If the FERC upholds the decision of the ALJ, up to $126 million of collected SECA rates could be refunded by the AEP East zone public utilities. We have recorded provisions in the aggregate amount of $37 million related to the potential refund of SECA rates pending settlement negotiations with various intervenors. SECA transition rates expired at the end of March 2006 and did not fully compensate AEP for ongoing lost T&O revenues. As a result of rate relief in certain jurisdictions, however, approximately 85% of the ongoing lost T&O revenues are now being recovered from native load customers of AEP East companies in those jurisdictions. The portion attributable to Virginia is being collected subject to refund. In addition to seeking retail rate recovery from native load customers in the applicable states, AEP and another member of PJM have filed an application with the FERC seeking compensation from other unaffiliated members of PJM for the costs associated with those members’ use of our respective transmission assets. A majority of PJM members have filed in opposition to the proposal. Hearings were held in April 2006. An ALJ recommended a rate design that would result in greater recovery for AEP than the proposal AEP had submitted. The ALJ also recommended, however, that the design be phased-in, which could limit the amount of recovery for AEP. The FERC has not yet ruled on this matter. Management cannot at this time estimate the outcome of these proceedings. Rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs. (Applies to each registrant.) Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. These rates are generally regulated based on an analysis of the applicable utility’s expenses incurred in a test year. Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may or may not match its expenses at any given time. Additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when these costs are incurred and when these costs are recovered. While rate regulation is premised on providing a reasonable opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will judge all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. We operate in a non-uniform and fluid regulatory environment. (Applies to each registrant.) In addition to the multiple levels of state regulation at the states in which we operate, our business is subject to extensive federal regulation. There can be no assurance that (1) the federal legislative and regulatory initiatives (which have occurred over the past few years and which have generally facilitated competition in the energy sector) will continue or will not be reversed or (2) state regulation will not become significantly more restrictive. Further alteration of the regulatory landscape in which we operate will impact the effectiveness of our business plan and may, because of the continued uncertainty, harm our financial condition and results of operations. At times, demand for power could exceed our supply capacity. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC and TNC.) We are currently obligated to supply power in parts of eleven states. From time to time, because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for power required to meet these obligations could exceed our available generation capacity. If this occurs, we would have to buy power from the market. We may not always have the ability to pass these costs on to our customers because some of the states we operate in do not allow us to increase our rates in response to increased fuel cost charges. Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, it is possible that the market price for power at that time would be very high. Even if a supply shortage were brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could reduce our results of operations. Risks Related to Market, Economic or Financial Volatility Downgrades in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and/or to operate our power trading businesses. (Applies to each registrant other than AEGCo.) Following the bankruptcy of Enron, the credit ratings agencies initiated a thorough review of the capital structure and the quality and stability of earnings of energy companies, including us. The agencies revised ratings at that time. Further negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to our industry and could limit our access to funding for our operations. Our business is capital intensive, and we are dependent upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition could be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected. If Moody’s or S&P were to downgrade the long-term rating of any of the registrants, particularly below investment grade, the borrowing costs of that registrant would increase, which would diminish its financial results. In addition, the registrant’s potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. Our power trading business relies on the investment grade ratings of our individual public utility subsidiaries’ senior unsecured long-term debt. Most of our counterparties require the creditworthiness of an investment grade entity to stand behind transactions. If those ratings were to decline below investment grade, our ability to operate our power trading business profitably would be diminished because we would likely have to deposit cash or cash-related instruments which would reduce our profits. AEP has no income or cash flow apart from dividends paid or other obligations due it from its subsidiaries. (Applies to AEP.) AEP is a holding company and has no operations of its own. Its ability to meet its financial obligations associated with its indebtedness and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries, primarily its regulated utilities, and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to, or repay loans from, AEP. Its subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that have no obligation (apart from loans from AEP) to provide AEP with funds for its payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions or other payments. Payments to AEP by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon their earnings and business considerations. In addition, any payment of dividends, distributions or advances by the utility subsidiaries to AEP would be subject to regulatory or contractual restrictions. Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. (Applies to each registrant.) Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the terms of power sale contracts that we enter into. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase AEP’s results of operations in a manner that would not likely be sustainable. Parties we have engaged to provide construction materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. (Applies to each registrant.) Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, construction of additional generation units and transmission facilities as well as other initiatives. We are exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of materials used in construction. We have engaged numerous contractors and entered into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related services. As a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and almost certainly cause delays in that and related projects. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This would cause our financial results to be diminished, and we might incur losses or delays in completing construction. Changes in commodity prices may increase our cost of producing power or decrease the amount we receive from selling power, harming our financial performance. (Applies to each registrant.) We are heavily exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal because most of our generating capacity is coal-fired. We have contracts of varying durations for the supply of coal for most of our existing generation capacity, but as these contracts end or otherwise are not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts. Similarly, we are heavily exposed to changes in the price and availability of emission allowances. We use emission allowances based on the amount of coal we use as fuel and the reductions achieved through emission controls and other measures. According to our estimates we have procured sufficient emission allowances to cover our projected needs for the next two years and for much of the projected needs for periods beyond that. At some point, however, we may have to obtain additional allowances and those purchases may not be on as favorable terms as those currently obtained. We also own natural gas-fired facilities, which increases our exposure to market prices of natural gas. Natural gas prices tend to be more volatile than prices for other fuel sources. The price trends for coal, natural gas and emission allowances have shown material increases in the recent past. Changes in the cost of coal, emission allowances or natural gas and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of power will affect our financial results. Since the prices we obtain for power may not change at the same rate as the change in coal, emission allowances or natural gas costs, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers. In addition, the prices we can charge our retail customers in some jurisdictions are capped. In addition, actual power prices and fuel costs will differ from those assumed in financial projections used to value our trading and marketing transactions, and those differences may be material. As a result, our financial results may be diminished in the future as those transactions are marked to market. In certain jurisdictions, we have limited ability to pass on our fuel costs to our customers. (Applies to AEP, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo.) We are exposed to risk from changes in the market prices of coal, natural gas, and emissions allowances used to generate power where generation is no longer regulated or where existing fuel clauses are suspended or frozen. The prices of coal, natural gas and emissions allowances have increased materially in the recent past. The protection afforded by retail fuel clause recovery mechanisms has been eliminated by the implementation of customer choice in Ohio, which represents approximately 20% of our fuel costs. Because the risk of generating costs cannot be passed through to customers as a matter of right in Ohio, we retain these risks. We also have a fuel cap in Indiana that may not allow us to fully recover our fuel costs there. If we cannot recover an amount sufficient to cover our actual fuel costs, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. We are exposed to losses resulting from the bankruptcy of Enron Corp. (Applies to AEP.) On June 1, 2001, we purchased Houston Pipe Line Company (“HPL”) from Enron Corp. (“Enron”). Later that year, Enron and its subsidiaries filed bankruptcy proceedings in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Various HPL related contingencies and indemnities from Enron remained unsettled at the date of Enron’s bankruptcy. In connection with the 2001 acquisition of HPL, we entered into an agreement with BAM Lease Company, which granted HPL the exclusive right to use approximately 65 BCF of cushion gas required for the normal operation of the Bammel gas storage facility. At the time of our acquisition of HPL, Bank of America (“BOA”) and certain other banks (together with BOA, “BOA Syndicate”) and Enron entered into an agreement granting HPL the exclusive use of 65 BCF of cushion gas. Additionally, Enron and the BOA Syndicate released HPL from all prior and future liabilities and obligations in connection with the financing arrangement. After the Enron bankruptcy, HPL was informed by the BOA Syndicate of a purported default by Enron under the terms of the financing arrangement. We purchased 10 BCF of gas from Enron and are currently litigating the rights to the remaining 55 BCF of cushion gas. In February 2004, in connection with BOA’s dispute, Enron filed Notices of Rejection regarding the cushion gas use agreement and other incidental agreements. We have objected to Enron’s attempted rejection of these agreements. In 2005 we sold HPL, including the Bammel gas storage facility. We indemnified the purchaser for damages, if any, arising from the litigation with BOA. The case in federal court in Texas is set for trial beginning April 2007. Management is unable to predict the final resolution of these disputes, however the impact on results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be material. Risks Relating To State Restructuring In Ohio, our costs may not be recovered and rates may be reduced. (Applies to AEP, OPCo and CSPCo) In January 2005, the PUCO approved rate stabilization plans (“RSPs”) for CSPCo and OPCo. The RSPs provide, among other things, for CSPCo and OPCo to raise their generation rates on an annual basis through 2008 by 3% and 7%, respectively. The RSPs also provide for possible additional annual generation rate increases of up to an average of 4% per year for specified costs. The RSPs also provide that CSPCo and OPCo can recover certain environmental carrying costs, PJM-related administrative costs and certain congestion costs. In 2006, CSPCo and OPCo collected an additional estimated $244 million in gross margin as a result of the RSPs. This amount is expected to increase in 2007 and 2008. In 2005, the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel filed an appeal to the Ohio Supreme Court that challenged the validity of the RSPs under Ohio’s electricity restructuring law. In July 2006, the Ohio Supreme Court vacated the PUCO’s RSP orders for CSPCo and OPCo and remanded the case to the PUCO for further proceedings. In August 2006, the PUCO directed CSPCo and OPCo to file a plan providing an option for customer participation in the electric market through competitive bids or other reasonable means. The PUCO also held that the RSPs shall remain effective. Accordingly, the Ohio companies continued collecting RSP revenues. In September 2006, CSPCo and OPCo submitted their proposals to provide additional options for customer participation in the electric market. If the PUCO were to reverse or limit the RSPs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Some laws and regulations governing restructuring in Virginia have not yet been interpreted or adopted and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. (Applies to AEP and APCo.) Virginia restructuring legislation was enacted in 1999 providing for retail choice of generation suppliers to be phased in over two years beginning January 1, 2002. It required jurisdictional utilities to unbundle their power supply and energy delivery rates and to file functional separation plans by January 1, 2002. APCo filed its plan with the VSCC and, following VSCC approval of a settlement agreement, now operates in Virginia as a functionally separated electric utility charging unbundled rates for its retail sales of electricity. The settlement agreement addressed functional separation, leaving decisions related to legal separation for later VSCC consideration. While the electric restructuring law in Virginia established the general framework governing the retail electric market, it required the VSCC to issue rules and determinations implementing the law. Some of the regulations governing the retail electric market have not yet been adopted by the VSCC. When the regulations are developed and adopted, compliance with them may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In February 2007, the Virginia legislature adopted amendments to its electric restructuring law. The amendments would cut two years off of the transition period (from 2010 to 2008) after which rates for retail generation supply would return to a form of cost-based regulation. The Governor of Virginia has not yet signed this legislation. There is uncertainty as to our recovery of stranded costs resulting from industry restructuring in Texas. (Applies to AEP and TCC.) Restructuring legislation in Texas required utilities with stranded costs to use market-based methods to value certain generating assets for determining stranded costs. We elected to use the sale of assets method to determine the market value of the generation assets of TCC for stranded cost purposes. In general terms, the amount of stranded costs under this market valuation methodology is the amount by which the book value of generating assets, including regulatory assets and liabilities that were not securitized, exceeds the market value of the generation assets, as measured by the net proceeds from the sale of the assets. In May 2005, TCC filed its stranded cost quantification application with the PUCT seeking recovery of $2.4 billion of net stranded generation costs and other recoverable true-up items. A final order was issued in April 2006. In the final order, the PUCT determined TCC’s net stranded generation costs and other recoverable true-up items to be approximately $1.475 billion. We have appealed the PUCT’s final order seeking additional recovery consistent with the Texas Act and related rules, other parties have appealed the PUCT’s final order as unwarranted or too large. In a preliminary ruling filed in February 2007, the Texas state district court adjudicating the appeal of the final order in the true-up proceeding found that the PUCT erred in several respects, including the method used to determine stranded costs and the awarding of certain carrying costs. Following the preliminary ruling, the court granted a rehearing of the issue regarding the method to determine stranded costs. That rehearing is scheduled for late March 2007. TCC intends to appeal any final adverse rulings regarding the PUCT’s order in the true-up proceeding. If the district court judge’s preliminary determination that TCC used an improper method to value its stranded costs is ultimately upheld on appeal, it could substantially reduce TCC’s stranded costs. We cannot estimate the amount of any potential impact at this time, but it could exceed TCC’s common shareholder’s equity at December 31, 2006. Any reduction of the recovery authorized in the PUCT’s order could have a material adverse effect on results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition. Collection of our revenues in Texas is concentrated in a limited number of REPs. (Applies to AEP, TCC and TNC.) Our revenues from the distribution of electricity in the ERCOT area of Texas are collected from REPs that supply the electricity we distribute to their customers. Currently, we do business with approximately sixty REPs. The two largest customers of TCC accounted for 29% of its operating revenues in 2006; the three largest customers of TNC accounted for 50% of its operating revenues in 2006. Adverse economic conditions, structural problems in the new Texas market or financial difficulties of one or more REPs could impair the ability of these REPs to pay for our services or could cause them to delay such payments. We depend on these REPs for timely remittance of payments. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect the timing and receipt of our cash flows and thereby have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Risks Related to Owning and Operating Generation Assets and Selling Power Our costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws could harm our cash flow and profitability. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC and TNC.) Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and health and safety. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees and permits at all of our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past, and we expect that they will increase in the future. Costs of compliance with environmental regulations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position, especially if emission and/or discharge limits are tightened, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed, additional substances become regulated and the number and types of assets we operate increase. All of our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties about the outcome of several interrelated assumptions and variables, including timing of implementation, required levels of reductions, allocation requirements of the new rules, and our selected compliance alternatives. As a result, we cannot estimate our compliance costs with certainty. The actual costs to comply could differ significantly from the estimates. All of the costs are incremental to our current investment base and operating cost structure. If Federal and/or State requirements are imposed on electric utility companies mandating further emission reductions, including limitations on CO2 emissions, such requirements could make some of our electric generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC and TNC.) Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury and particulates from fossil fueled generating plants are potentially subject to increased regulations, controls and mitigation expenses. Environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies in the United States are focusing considerable attention on carbon dioxide emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. Although several bills have been introduced in Congress that would compel CO2 emission reductions, none have advanced through the legislature. Future changes in environmental regulations governing these pollutants could make some of our electric generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate. In addition, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our emissions beyond present levels could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of CO2 legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. While mandatory requirements for further emission reductions from our fossil fleet do not appear to be imminent, we continue to monitor regulatory and legislative developments in this area. Governmental authorities may assess penalties on us if it is determined that we have not complied with environmental laws and regulations. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC and TNC.) If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines against us. Recent lawsuits by the EPA and various states filed against us highlight the environmental risks faced by generating facilities, in general, and coal-fired generating facilities, in particular. Since 1999, we have been involved in litigation regarding generating plant emissions under the CAA. The EPA and a number of states alleged that we and other unaffiliated utilities modified certain units at coal-fired generating plants in violation of the CAA. The EPA filed complaints against certain AEP subsidiaries in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. A separate lawsuit initiated by certain special interest groups was consolidated with the EPA case. The alleged modification of the generating units occurred over a 20-year period. A bench trial on the liability issues was held during July 2005. Briefing has concluded, but the court is holding the case in abeyance until the U.S. Supreme Court rules on a similar case. No decision has been issued. Additionally, in July 2004 attorneys general of eight states and others sued AEP and other utilities alleging that carbon dioxide emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal common law. The trial court dismissed the suits and plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal. While we believe the claims are without merit, the costs associated with reducing carbon dioxide emissions could harm our business and our results of operations and financial position. If these or other future actions are resolved against us, substantial modifications of our existing coal-fired power plants could be required. In addition, we could be required to invest significantly in additional emission control equipment, accelerate the timing of capital expenditures, pay penalties and/or halt operations. Moreover, our results of operations and financial position could be reduced due to the timing of recovery of these investments and the expense of ongoing litigation. Our revenues and results of operations from selling power are subject to market risks that are beyond our control. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC and TNC.) We sell power from our generation facilities into the spot market or other competitive power markets or on a contractual basis. We also enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, emission allowances and coal as part of our power marketing and energy trading operations. With respect to such transactions, we are generally not guaranteed any rate of return on our capital investments through mandated rates, and our revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power in our regional markets and other competitive markets. These market prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. Trading margins may erode as markets mature and there may be diminished opportunities for gain should volatility decline. In addition, FERC, which has jurisdiction over wholesale power rates, as well as RTOs that oversee some of these markets, may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in these markets. Power supply and other similar agreements entered into during extreme market conditions may subsequently be held to be unenforceable by a reviewing court or FERC. Fuel and emissions prices may also be volatile, and the price we can obtain for power sales may not change at the same rate as changes in fuel and/or emissions costs. These factors could reduce our margins and therefore diminish our revenues and results of operations. Volatility in market prices for fuel and power may result from: · weather conditions; · seasonality; · power usage; · illiquid markets; · transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; · availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; · demand for energy commodities; · natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal production levels; · natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and · federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. Our power trading (including coal, gas and emission allowances trading and power marketing) and risk management policies cannot eliminate the risk associated with these activities. (Applies to each registrant other than AEG, TCC and TNC.) Our power trading (including coal, gas and emission allowances trading and power marketing) activities expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We attempt to manage our exposure by establishing and enforcing of risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with these activities. As a result, we cannot predict the impact that our energy trading and risk management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position. We routinely have open trading positions in the market, within guidelines we set, resulting from the management of our trading portfolio. To the extent open trading positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve or diminish our financial results and financial position. Our power trading and risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as the future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. These factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. Even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate. Our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to operate our pooled electric generating facilities successfully. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC and TNC.) Our performance is highly dependent on the successful operation of our electric generating facilities. Operating electric generating facilities involves many risks, including: · operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; · operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; · labor disputes; · fuel supply interruptions caused by transportation constraints, adverse weather, non-performance by our suppliers and other factors; and · catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, hurricanes, terrorism, floods or other similar occurrences. A decrease or elimination of revenues from power produced by our electric generating facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would adversely affect our results of operations. Parties with whom we have contracts may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. (Applies to each registrant.) We are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money or power could breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses. Although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by a counterparty may be greater than the estimates predict. We rely on electric transmission facilities that we do not own or control. If these facilities do not provide us with adequate transmission capacity, we may not be able to deliver our wholesale electric power to the purchasers of our power. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC and TNC.) We depend on transmission facilities owned and operated by other unaffiliated power companies to deliver the power we sell at wholesale. This dependence exposes us to a variety of risks. If transmission is disrupted, or transmission capacity is inadequate, we may not be able to sell and deliver our wholesale power. If a region’s power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, our recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. If restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. The FERC has issued electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales. Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions for electricity and gas, access to transmission systems may in fact not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. We also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets. We do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. (Applies to each registrant other than AEG, TCC and TNC.) We routinely enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, coal and emission allowances as part of our power marketing and energy and emission allowances trading operations. In connection with these trading activities, we routinely enter into financial contracts, including futures and options, over-the counter options, financially-settled swaps and other derivative contracts. These activities expose us to risks from price movements. If the values of the financial contracts change in a manner we do not anticipate, it could harm our financial position or reduce the financial contribution of our trading operations. We manage our exposure by establishing risk limits and entering into contracts to offset some of our positions (i.e., to hedge our exposure to demand, market effects of weather and other changes in commodity prices). However, we do not always hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position may be improved or diminished based upon our success in the market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 