ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General Risks of Our Regulated Operations We may not be able to recover the costs of our substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions. (Applies to each registrant.) Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades and retrofits, construction and/or acquisition of additional generation units and transmission facilities, modernizing existing infrastructure as well as other initiatives. Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. If these regulatory commissions do not approve adjustments to the rates we charge, we would not be able to recover the costs associated with our planned extensive investment. This would cause our financial results to be diminished. While we may seek to limit the impact of any denied recovery by attempting to reduce the scope of our capital investment, there can no assurance as to the effectiveness of any such mitigation efforts, particularly with respect to previously incurred costs and commitments. Our planned capital investment program coincides with a material increase in the price of the fuels used to generate electricity. Many of our jurisdictions have fuel clauses that permit us to recover these increased fuel costs through rates without a general rate case. While prudent capital investment and variable fuel costs each generally warrant recovery, in practical terms our regulators could limit the amount or timing of increased costs that we would recover through higher rates. Any such limitation could cause our financial results to be diminished. Our request for rate recovery of additional costs may not be approved in Virginia. (Applies to AEP and APCo.) On July 1, 2005, APCo filed a request with the VSCC seeking approval for the recovery of $62 million in incremental costs through June 30, 2006. The $62 million request included incurred and projected costs of environmental controls, transmission costs (including line construction) and other system reliability work. In October 2005, the VSCC ruled that it does not have the authority to approve the recovery of projected costs. In November 2005, APCo filed supplemental testimony in which it updated the actual costs through September 2005 and reduced its requested recovery to $21 million. The staff of the VSCC has made filings to dismiss the transmission system reliability costs from consideration for recovery, arguing that the FERC, and not the VSCC, has jurisdiction over the unbundled transmission component of APCo's retail rates. Through December 31, 2005, APCo has deferred $24 million of recorded costs that are subject to this proceeding (which does not include $4 million of related equity carrying costs). The staff of the VSCC has issued testimony that would reduce APCo’s recovery of current and future costs to $20 million. If the VSCC denies recovery of any of APCo’s deferred costs, it would adversely impact future results of operations and cash flows. Our request for rate recovery of additional costs may not be approved in West Virginia. (Applies to AEP and APCo.) In August 2005, APCo and WPCo collectively filed an application (amended in January 2006) with the WVPSC seeking an initial increase in their retail base rates of approximately $73 million. Most of the requested base rate increase is attributable to reactivating the currently suspended ENEC mechanism that provides recovery of power supply costs, including fuel and purchased power, while the rest is primarily related to the recovery of the costs associated with the Ceredo Generating Station and service reliability improvements. The first supplemental increase of $9 million, requested to be effective at the same time as the base rate change, provides for recovery of the capital costs of the Wyoming Jackson's Ferry 765kV line. The remaining proposed supplemental increases are $43 million, $8 million and $36 million, to be effective on January 1, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively, provide for recovery of environmental expenditures. APCo has a regulatory liability of $52 million of pre-suspension, previously over-recovered ENEC costs which, along with a carrying cost, it is proposing to apply in the future to any future under-recoveries of ENEC costs through the reactivated ENEC mechanism. The WVPSC has granted a joint motion that requested hearings begin April 17, 2006, that new rates go into effect on July 28, 2006 and that deferral accounting for over- or under-recovery of the ENEC begin July 1, 2006. If the WVPSC denies the requested rate recovery, it could adversely impact future results of operations and cash flows. Our request for rate recovery of additional costs may not be approved in Kentucky. (Applies to AEP and KPCo.) In September 2005, KPCo filed a request with the Kentucky Public Service Commission to increase base rates by approximately $65 million to recover increasing costs. The major components of the rate increase included a return on common equity of 11.5% or $26 million, the recovery of transmission costs of $10 million, the recovery of additional capacity costs of $9 million, additional reliability spending of $7 million and increased depreciation expense of $5 million. We have entered into a settlement agreement with intervenors that provides an increase in base rates of approximately $41 million. If the Kentucky Public Service Commission does not approve the settlement or otherwise denies the requested rate recovery, it could adversely impact future results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to recover all of our fuel costs in Indiana. (Applies to AEP and I&M.) In 2003, I&M’s fuel and base rates in Indiana were frozen through a prior agreement. In 2004, the IURC ordered the continuation of the fixed fuel adjustment charge on an interim basis through March 2005, pending the outcome of negotiations. Certain of the parties to the negotiations reached a settlement. The IURC approved the agreement on June 1, 2005. The approved settlement caps fuel rates for the March 2004 through June 2007 billing months at increasing rates during agreed-upon intervals. I&M experienced a cumulative under-recovery of fuel costs for the period March 2004 through December 2005. If future fuel costs through June 30, 2007 continue to exceed the agreed-upon caps, future results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. The rates that SWEPCo may charge its customers may be reduced. (Applies to SWEPCo.) In October 2005, the staff of the PUCT reported results of its review of SWEPCo’s year-end 2004 earnings. Based upon the staff’s adjustments to the information submitted by SWEPCo, the report indicates that SWEPCo is receiving excess revenues of approximately $15 million. The staff has engaged SWEPCo in discussions to reconcile the earnings calculation and consider possible ways to address the results. Separately, at the time of the CSW merger, SWEPCO agreed to file with the LPSC detailed financial information typically utilized in a revenue requirement filing on a periodic basis in order to demonstrate the lack of adverse impact from the merger. The first such filing was in October 2002 and the second was in April 2004. While both filings indicated that SWEPCo’s rates should not be reduced, direct testimony filed by staff of the LPSC recommends a $15 million reduction in SWEPCo’s Louisiana jurisdictional base rates. SWEPCo has filed rebuttal testimony and additional discovery is planned. In a separate matter, in November 2005 the LPSC included SWEPCo in an inquiry initiated to determine whether utilities had purchased fuel and power at the lowest possible price and whether suppliers offered competitive prices for fuel and purchased power during the period of January 1, 2005 through October 31, 2005. As a result, the LPSC is conducting an audit of SWEPCo’s historical fuel costs for the years 2003 and 2004. At this time, management is unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings. If a rate reduction is ordered in the future, it would adversely impact future results of operations and cash flows. The amount that PSO seeks to recover for fuel costs is currently being reviewed. (Applies to PSO.) In 2002, PSO experienced a $44 million under-recovery of fuel costs resulting from a reallocation among AEP’s West zone public utility subsidiaries of purchased power costs for periods prior to January 1, 2002. In July 2003, PSO filed with the OCC offering to collect the under-recovery over 18 months. An intervenor, the staff of the OCC and the Attorney General of Oklahoma have made filings indicating that recovery should be reduced substantially or disallowed altogether. These filings disputed the allocation of AEP System off-system sales margins pursuant to an agreement approved by FERC. In September 2003, the OCC expanded the case to include a full review of PSO’s 2001 fuel and purchased power practices. The allocation issue was referred to an ALJ. The ALJ recommended that the OCC lacks authority to examine whether PSO deviated from the FERC allocation methodology and that any such complaints should be addressed at the FERC. The OCC conducted a hearing on the jurisdictional matter in January 2005 but has not issued a decision. If the OCC determines, as a result of the review, that a portion of PSO’s fuel and purchased power costs should not be recovered, there could be an adverse effect on PSO’s results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition. The internal allocation of AEP System off-system sales margins has been challenged. (Applies to APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KPCo and OPCo.) Off-system sales margins are allocated among the AEP System companies pursuant to a FERC-approved agreement among those companies entered into at the time of the merger with CSW. In November 2005, we filed with the FERC a proposed allocation methodology to be used in 2006 and beyond. The original allocations have been challenged in different forums, including PSO’s fuel clause recovery proceeding before the OCC. In general, the challenges assert that AEP’s West zone public utility subsidiaries, acquired in the merger with CSW, are being allocated a disproportionately small amount of the off-system sales margins. An ALJ in the OCC proceeding and, separately, a federal district court in Texas have each held that the FERC is the only appropriate adjudicator of such challenges. No proceeding questioning the allocation of our off-system sales is currently before the FERC; the OCC, however, has yet to rule on whether it has jurisdiction over this issue. If the FERC or another entity of competent authority were to retroactively allocate additional off-system sales margins to the West zone public utility subsidiaries, the East zone public utility subsidiaries may be required to pay money to the West zone public utility subsidiaries. Any such payments could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition of the East zone public utility subsidiaries. The base rates that certain of our utilities charge are currently capped or frozen. (Applies to AEP, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo.) Base rates charged to customers in Michigan and Ohio are currently either frozen or capped. To the extent our costs in these states exceed the applicable cap or frozen rate, those costs are not recoverable from customers. Certain of our revenues and results of operations are subject to risks that are beyond our control. (Applies to each registrant.) Unless mitigated by timely and adequate regulatory recovery, the cost of repairing damage to our utility facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events, in excess of insurance coverage, when applicable, may adversely impact our revenues, operating and capital expenses and results of operations. Such events may also create additional risks related to the supply and/or cost of equipment and materials. We are exposed to nuclear generation risk. (Applies to AEP and I&M.) Through I&M, we own the Cook Plant. It consists of two nuclear generating units for a rated capacity of 2,143 MW, or 6% of our generation capacity. We are, therefore, subject to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the following: · the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials such as spent nuclear fuel; · limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations; · uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessment amounts if insurance coverage is inadequate (federal law requires owners of nuclear units to purchase the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance and potentially contribute to the losses of others); and, · uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives. There can be no assurance that I&M’s preparations or risk mitigation measures will be adequate if and when these risks are triggered. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants such as ours. In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our plants, if an incident did occur, it could harm our results of operations or financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. Moreover, a major incident at a nuclear facility in the U.S. could require us to make material contributory payments. The different regional power markets in which we compete or will compete in the future have changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect our performance in these regions. (Applies to each registrant.) Our results are likely to be affected by differences in the market and transmission regulatory structures in various regional power markets. Problems or delays that may arise in the operation of new regional transmission organizations, or “RTOs”, may restrict our ability to sell power produced by our generating capacity to certain markets if there is insufficient transmission capacity otherwise available. The rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time which could affect our costs or revenues. Because it remains unclear which companies will be participating in the various regional power markets, or the manner in which RTOs will evolve or the regions they will cover, we are unable to assess fully the impact that these power markets may have on our business. AEP’s East zone public utility subsidiaries joined PJM on October 1, 2004. SWEPCo and PSO are members of SPP. In February 2004, FERC granted RTO status to SPP, subject to fulfilling specified requirements. In October 2004, the FERC issued an order granting final RTO status to SPP subject to certain filings. The utility commissions of Louisiana and Arkansas are concerned about the effect on retail ratepayers of utilities in Louisiana and Arkansas joining RTOs. These commissions have ordered the utilities in those states, including us, to analyze and submit to them the costs and benefits of RTO options available to the utilities. Certain states in the region have undertaken and released a study investigating the costs and benefits of SPP developing into a RTO that administers energy and associated markets. To the extent we are faced with conflicting state and Federal requirements as to our participation in RTOs, it could adversely affect our ability to operate and recover transmission costs from retail customers. Management is unable to predict the outcome of these transmission regulatory actions and proceedings or their impact on the timing and operation of RTOs, our transmission operations or future results of operations and cash flows. The amount we charge third parties for using our transmission facilities may be reduced and not recovered. (Applies to AEP and AEP’s East zone public utility subsidiaries.) In July 2003, the FERC issued an order directing PJM and the MISO to make compliance filings for their respective OATTs to eliminate the transaction-based charges for through and out (T&O) transmission service on transactions where the energy is delivered within the proposed MISO and PJM expanded regions (Combined Footprint). The elimination of the T&O rates reduces the transmission service revenues collected by the RTOs and thereby reduces the revenues received by transmission owners under the RTOs’ revenue distribution protocols. To mitigate the impact of lost T&O revenues, the FERC approved temporary replacement seams elimination cost adjustment (SECA) transition rates beginning in December 2004 and extending through March 2006. Intervenors objected to this decision and SECA fees are being collected subject to refund while FERC considers the issue. SECA transition rates have not fully compensated AEP for lost T&O revenues. AEP’s East zone public utility subsidiaries received approximately $196 million of T&O rate revenues for the twelve months ended September 30, 2004, the last twelve months prior to joining PJM. AEP’s East zone public utility subsidiaries recognized net SECA revenues of $128 million in 2005. SECA transition rates expire at the end of March 2006, after which, all transmission costs that would otherwise have been covered by T&O rates in the Combined Footprint will be subject to recovery from native load customers of AEP’s East zone public utility subsidiaries. A rate request is pending in West Virginia and a settlement agreement is pending in Kentucky that address the reduction in these transmission revenues. In February 2006, CSPCo and OPCo filed with the PUCO to increase their transmission rates to reflect the loss of their share of SECA revenues. At this time, management is unable to predict whether any resultant increase in rates applicable to AEP’s internal load will be recoverable on a timely basis from state retail customers. In addition to seeking retail rate recovery from the applicable states, AEP and another member of PJM have filed an application with the FERC seeking compensation from other unaffiliated members of PJM for the costs associated with those members’ use of our respective transmission assets. A majority of PJM members have filed in opposition to the proposal. The case is scheduled for hearing in April 2006. AEP management cannot at this time estimate the outcome of the proceeding. Rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs. (Applies to each registrant.) Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. These rates are generally regulated based on an analysis of the applicable utility’s expenses incurred in a test year. Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may or may not match its expenses at any given time. Additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when these costs are incurred and when these costs are recovered. While rate regulation is premised on providing a reasonable opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will judge all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. We operate in a non-uniform and fluid regulatory environment. (Applies to each registrant.) In addition to the multiple levels of state regulation at the states in which we operate, our business is subject to extensive federal regulation. There can be no assurance that (1) the federal legislative and regulatory initiatives (which have occurred over the past few years and which have generally facilitated competition in the energy sector) will continue or will not be reversed or (2) state regulation will not become significantly more restrictive. Further alteration of the regulatory landscape in which we operate will impact the effectiveness of our business plan and may, because of the continued uncertainty, harm our financial condition and results of operations. At times, demand for power could exceed our supply capacity. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC and TNC.) We are currently obligated to supply power in parts of eleven states. From time to time, because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for power required to meet these obligations could exceed our available generation capacity. If this occurs, we would have to buy power from the market. We may not always have the ability to pass these costs on to our customers because some of the states we operate in do not allow us to increase our rates in response to increased fuel cost charges. Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, it is possible that the market price for power at that time would be very high. Even if a supply shortage were brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could reduce our results of operations. Risks Related to Market, Economic or Financial Volatility Downgrades in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and/or to operate our power trading businesses. (Applies to each registrant other than AEGCo.) Following the bankruptcy of Enron, the credit ratings agencies initiated a thorough review of the capital structure and the quality and stability of earnings of energy companies, including us. The agencies revised ratings at that time. Further negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to our industry and could limit our access to funding for our operations. Our business is capital intensive, and we are dependent upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition could be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected. If Moody’s or S&P were to downgrade the long-term rating of any of the registrants, particularly below investment grade, the borrowing costs of that registrant would increase, which would diminish its financial results. In addition, the registrant’s potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. Our power trading business relies on the investment grade ratings of our individual public utility subsidiaries’ senior unsecured long-term debt. Most of our counterparties require the creditworthiness of an investment grade entity to stand behind transactions. If those ratings were to decline below investment grade, our ability to operate our power trading business profitably would be diminished because we would likely have to deposit cash or cash-related instruments which would reduce our profits. AEP has no income or cash flow apart from dividends paid or other obligations due it from its subsidiaries. (Applies to AEP.) AEP is a holding company and has no operations of its own. Its ability to meet its financial obligations associated with its indebtedness and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries, primarily its regulated utilities, and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to, or repay loans from, AEP. Its subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that have no obligation (apart from loans from AEP) to provide AEP with funds for its payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions or other payments. Payments to AEP by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon their earnings and business considerations. In addition, any payment of dividends, distributions or advances by the utility subsidiaries to AEP would be subject to regulatory or contractual restrictions. Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. (Applies to each registrant.) Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the terms of power sale contracts that we enter into. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. We expect that unusually mild weather in the future could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase AEP’s results of operations in a manner that would not likely be sustainable. Parties we have engaged to provide construction materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. (Applies to each registrant.) Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, construction of additional generation units and transmission facilities as well as other initiatives. As a result, we have engaged numerous contractors and entered into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related services. We are therefore exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and almost certainly cause delays in that and related projects. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This would cause our financial results to be diminished, and we might incur losses or delays in completing construction. Changes in commodity prices may increase our cost of producing power or decrease the amount we receive from selling power, harming our financial performance. (Applies to each registrant.) We are heavily exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal because most of our generating capacity is coal-fired. We have contracts of varying durations for the supply of coal for most of our existing generation capacity, but as these contracts end or otherwise not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts. Similarly, we are heavily exposed to changes in the price and availability of emission allowances. We use emission allowances in direct proportion with the amount of coal we use as fuel. According to our estimates we have procured sufficient emission allowances to cover our projected needs for the next two years and for much of the projected needs for periods beyond that. At some point, however, we will have to obtain additional allowances and those purchases may not be on as favorable terms as those currently obtained. We also own natural gas-fired facilities, which increases our exposure to the more volatile market prices of natural gas. The price trends for coal, natural gas and emission allowances have shown material increases that are expected to continue. Changes in the cost of coal, emission allowances or natural gas and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of power will affect our financial results. Since the prices we obtain for power may not change at the same rate as the change in coal, emission allowances or natural gas costs, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers. In addition, the prices we can charge our retail customers in some jurisdictions are capped and our fuel recovery mechanisms in other states are frozen for various periods of time. In addition, actual power prices and fuel costs will differ from those assumed in financial projections used to value our trading and marketing transactions, and those differences may be material. As a result, our financial results may be diminished in the future as those transactions are marked to market. In certain jurisdictions, we have limited ability to pass on our fuel costs to our customers. (Applies to AEP, APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo.) We are exposed to risk from changes in the market prices of coal, natural gas, and emissions used to generate power where generation is no longer regulated or where existing fuel clauses are suspended or frozen. The prices of coal, natural gas and emissions have increased materially over the past several years, and that trend is expected to continue. The protection afforded by retail fuel clause recovery mechanisms has been eliminated by the implementation of customer choice in Ohio. Because the risk of generating costs cannot be passed through to customers as a matter of right in Ohio, we retain these risks. We have applied to reactivate the mechanism that provides recovery of power supply costs, including fuel, in West Virginia; the mechanism was suspended by a settlement reached in a state restructuring proceeding. The WVPSC has approved commencement of deferral accounting related to power supply costs, including fuel, effective July 1, 2006. A recently negotiated fuel cap in Indiana may not allow us to fully recover our fuel costs there. If we cannot recover an amount sufficient to cover our actual fuel costs, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. We are exposed to losses resulting from the bankruptcy of Enron Corp. (Applies to AEP.) On June 1, 2001, we purchased Houston Pipe Line Company (“HPL”) from Enron Corp. (“Enron”). Later that year, Enron and its subsidiaries filed bankruptcy proceedings in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Various HPL related contingencies and indemnities from Enron remained unsettled at the date of Enron’s bankruptcy. In connection with the 2001 acquisition of HPL, we entered into an agreement with BAM Lease Company, which granted HPL the exclusive right to use approximately 65 BCF of cushion gas required for the normal operation of the Bammel gas storage facility. At the time of our acquisition of HPL, Bank of America (“BOA”) and certain other banks (together with BOA, “BOA Syndicate”) and Enron entered into an agreement granting HPL the exclusive use of 65 BCF of cushion gas. Additionally, Enron and the BOA Syndicate released HPL from all prior and future liabilities and obligations in connection with the financing arrangement. After the Enron bankruptcy, HPL was informed by the BOA Syndicate of a purported default by Enron under the terms of the financing arrangement. We are currently litigating the rights to the cushion gas. In February 2004, in connection with BOA’s dispute, Enron filed Notices of Rejection regarding the cushion gas use agreement and other incidental agreements. We have objected to Enron’s attempted rejection of these agreements. In 2005 we sold HPL, including the Bammel gas storage facility. We indemnified the purchaser for damages, if any, arising from the litigation with BOA. Management is unable to predict the final resolution of these disputes, however the impact on results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be material. Risks Relating To State Restructuring We may be required to serve former large industrial or commercial customers in Ohio at rates that are below market. (Applies to AEP, CSPCo and OPCo.) Large industrial or commercial customers in Ohio who switched from us to alternative suppliers when customer choice became effective may successfully petition the PUCO to require us to provide service to them at prices that may be below market or that do not allow us to recover our costs. This may increase demand above our facilities’ available capacity or limit our ability to earn a return on the sale of power. Thus, any such switching by customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Additionally, to the extent the power sold to meet the default service obligations could have been sold to third parties at more favorable wholesale prices, we will have incurred potentially significant lost opportunity costs. Some laws and regulations governing restructuring in Virginia have not yet been interpreted or adopted and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. (Applies to AEP and APCo.) Virginia restructuring legislation was enacted in 1999 providing for retail choice of generation suppliers to be phased in over two years beginning January 1, 2002. It required jurisdictional utilities to unbundle their power supply and energy delivery rates and to file functional separation plans by January 1, 2002. APCo filed its plan with the VSCC and, following VSCC approval of a settlement agreement, now operates in Virginia as a functionally separated electric utility charging unbundled rates for its retail sales of electricity. The settlement agreement addressed functional separation, leaving decisions related to legal separation for later VSCC consideration. While the electric restructuring law in Virginia established the general framework governing the retail electric market, it required the VSCC to issue rules and determinations implementing the law. Some of the regulations governing the retail electric market have not yet been adopted by the VSCC. When the regulations are developed and adopted, compliance with them may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. There is uncertainty as to our recovery of stranded costs resulting from industry restructuring in Texas. (Applies to AEP and TCC.) Restructuring legislation in Texas required utilities with stranded costs to use market-based methods to value certain generating assets for determining stranded costs. We elected to use the sale of assets method to determine the market value of the generation assets of TCC for stranded cost purposes. In general terms, the amount of stranded costs under this market valuation methodology is the amount by which the book value of generating assets, including regulatory assets and liabilities that were not securitized, exceeds the market value of the generation assets, as measured by the net proceeds from the sale of the assets. In May 2005, TCC filed its stranded cost quantification application with the PUCT seeking recovery of $2.4 billion of net stranded generation costs and other recoverable true-up items. A final order was issued in February 2006. In the final order, the PUCT determined TCC’s net stranded generation costs and other recoverable true-up items to be approximately $1.475 billion. Other parties may appeal the PUCT’s final order as unwarranted or too large; we expect to appeal seeking additional recovery consistent with the Texas Act and related rules. If, after appeal, the amount of recovery is reduced or we are otherwise unable to recover all or part of the net stranded generation costs and other recoverable true-up items, it could have a material adverse effect on results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition. Collection of our revenues in Texas is concentrated in a limited number of REPs. (Applies to AEP, TCC and TNC.) Our revenues from the distribution of electricity in the ERCOT area of Texas are collected from REPs that supply the electricity we distribute to their customers. Currently, we do business with approximately sixty REPs. Adverse economic conditions, structural problems in the new Texas market or financial difficulties of one or more REPs could impair the ability of these REPs to pay for our services or could cause them to delay such payments. We depend on these REPs for timely remittance of payments. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect the timing and receipt of our cash flows and thereby have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Risks Related to Owning and Operating Generation Assets and Selling Power Our costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws could harm our cash flow and profitability. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC.) Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and health and safety. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees and permits at all of our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past, and we expect that they will increase in the future. Costs of compliance with environmental regulations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position, especially if emission and/or discharge limits are tightened, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed, additional substances become regulated and the number and types of assets we operate increase. All of our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties about the outcome of several interrelated assumptions and variables, including timing of implementation, required levels of reductions, allocation requirements of the new rules, and our selected compliance alternatives. As a result, we cannot estimate our compliance costs with certainty. The actual costs to comply could differ significantly from the estimates. All of the costs are incremental to our current investment base and operating cost structure. Governmental authorities may assess penalties on us if it is determined that we have not complied with environmental laws and regulations. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC.) If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines against us. Recent lawsuits by the EPA and various states filed against us highlight the environmental risks faced by generating facilities, in general, and coal-fired generating facilities, in particular. Since 1999, we have been involved in litigation regarding generating plant emissions under the Clean Air Act. EPA and a number of states alleged that we and other unaffiliated utilities modified certain units at coal-fired generating plants in violation of the Clean Air Act. EPA filed complaints against certain AEP subsidiaries in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. A separate lawsuit initiated by certain special interest groups was consolidated with the EPA case. The alleged modification of the generating units occurred over a 20-year period. A bench trial on the liability issues was held during July 2005. Briefing has concluded, but no decision has been issued. Additionally, in July 2004 attorneys general of eight states and others sued AEP and other utilities alleging that carbon dioxide emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal common law. The suits were dismissed by the trial court and plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal. While we believe the claims are without merit, the costs associated with reducing carbon dioxide emissions could harm our business and our results of operations and financial position. If these or other future actions are resolved against us, substantial modifications of our existing coal-fired power plants could be required. In addition, we could be required to invest significantly in additional emission control equipment, accelerate the timing of capital expenditures, pay penalties and/or halt operations. Moreover, our results of operations and financial position could be reduced due to the timing of recovery of these investments and the expense of ongoing litigation. Our revenues and results of operations from selling power are subject to market risks that are beyond our control. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC.) We sell power from our generation facilities into the spot market or other competitive power markets or on a contractual basis. We also enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, emission allowances and coal as part of our power marketing and energy trading operations. With respect to such transactions, we are generally not guaranteed any rate of return on our capital investments through mandated rates, and our revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power in our regional markets and other competitive markets. These market prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. Trading margins may erode as markets mature and there may be diminished opportunities for gain should volatility decline. In addition, FERC, which has jurisdiction over wholesale power rates, as well as RTOs that oversee some of these markets, may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in these markets. Fuel and emissions prices may also be volatile, and the price we can obtain for power sales may not change at the same rate as changes in fuel and/or emissions costs. These factors could reduce our margins and therefore diminish our revenues and results of operations. Volatility in market prices for fuel and power may result from: · weather conditions; · seasonality; · power usage; · illiquid markets; · transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; · availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; · demand for energy commodities; · natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal production levels; · natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and · federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. Our power trading (including coal, gas and emission allowances trading and power marketing) and risk management policies cannot eliminate the risk associated with these activities. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC.) Our power trading (including coal, gas and emission allowances trading and power marketing) activities expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We attempt to manage our exposure by establishing and enforcing of risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with these activities. As a result, we cannot predict the impact that our energy trading and risk management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position. We routinely have open trading positions in the market, within guidelines we set, resulting from the management of our trading portfolio. To the extent open trading positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve or diminish our financial results and financial position. Our power trading and risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as the future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. These factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. Even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate. Our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to operate our pooled electric generating facilities successfully. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC.) Our performance is highly dependent on the successful operation of our electric generating facilities. Operating electric generating facilities involves many risks, including: · operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; · operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; · labor disputes; · fuel supply interruptions caused by transportation constraints, adverse weather, non-performance by our suppliers and other factors; and · catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, hurricanes, terrorism, floods or other similar occurrences. A decrease or elimination of revenues from power produced by our electric generating facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would adversely affect our results of operations. Parties with whom we have contracts may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. (Applies to each registrant.) We are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money or power could breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses. Although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by a counterparty may be greater than the estimates predict. We are contractually required to operate a power generation facility that may indirectly force us to sell the facility’s excess energy at a loss. (Applies to AEP.) We have agreed to lease from Juniper Capital L.P. a non-regulated merchant power generation facility (“Facility”) near Plaquemine, Louisiana. We sublease the Facility to Dow. We operate the Facility for Dow. Dow uses a portion of the energy produced by the Facility and sells the excess power to us. We have agreed to sell up to all of the excess 800 MW to Tractebel at a price that is currently in excess of market. Tractebel alleged that the power purchase agreement was unenforceable. This agreement is now being litigated. A bench trial was conducted in March and April 2005. In August 2005, a federal judge ruled that Tractebel had breached the contract and awarded us damages of $123 million plus prejudgment interest. Both parties have filed appeals. In January 2006, the trial court increased AEP’s judgment against Tractebel to $173 million plus prejudgment interest. If the trial award is reversed or if Tractebel does not pay the judgment, our cash flow will be adversely affected. If the power agreement is held to be unenforceable, we will be required to find new purchasers for up to 800 MW. There can be no assurance that the power produced will be sold at prices that will exceed our costs to produce it. If that were the case, as a result of our obligations to Dow, we would be required to operate the Facility at a loss. We rely on electric transmission facilities that we do not own or control. If these facilities do not provide us with adequate transmission capacity, we may not be able to deliver our wholesale electric power to the purchasers of our power. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC.) We depend on transmission facilities owned and operated by other unaffiliated power companies to deliver the power we sell at wholesale. This dependence exposes us to a variety of risks. If transmission is disrupted, or transmission capacity is inadequate, we may not be able to sell and deliver our wholesale power. If a region’s power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, our recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. If restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. The FERC has issued electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales. Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions for electricity and gas, access to transmission systems may in fact not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. We also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets. We do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. (Applies to each registrant other than TCC.) We routinely enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, coal and emission allowances as part of our power marketing and energy and emission allowances trading operations. In connection with these trading activities, we routinely enter into financial contracts, including futures and options, over-the counter options, financially-settled swaps and other derivative contracts. These activities expose us to risks from price movements. If the values of the financial contracts change in a manner we do not anticipate, it could harm our financial position or reduce the financial contribution of our trading operations. We manage our exposure by establishing risk limits and entering into contracts to offset some of our positions (i.e., to hedge our exposure to demand, market effects of weather and other changes in commodity prices). However, we do not always hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position may be improved or diminished based upon our success in the market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 