ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General Risks of Our Regulated Operations We may not be able to recover the costs of our substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions. (Applies to each registrant.) Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades and retrofits, construction and/or acquisition of additional generation units and transmission facilities, modernizing existing infrastructure as well as other initiatives. Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. If these regulatory commissions do not approve adjustments to the rates we charge, we would not be able to recover the costs associated with our planned extensive investment. This would cause our financial results to be diminished. While we may seek to limit the impact of any denied recovery by attempting to reduce the scope of our capital investment, there can be no assurance as to the effectiveness of any such mitigation efforts, particularly with respect to previously incurred costs and commitments. Our planned capital investment program coincides with a material increase in the price of the fuels used to generate electricity. Most of our jurisdictions have fuel clauses that permit us to recover these increased fuel costs through rates without a general rate case. While prudent capital investment and variable fuel costs each generally warrant recovery, in practical terms our regulators could limit the amount or timing of increased costs that we would recover through higher rates. Any such limitation could cause our financial results to be diminished. While Indiana permits the recovery of prudently incurred costs, our request for rate recovery may not be approved in its entirety. (Applies to AEP and I&M.) In January 2008, I&M filed a request to increase base rates in its Indiana jurisdiction by approximately $80 million. The request included a return on equity of 11.5% and the ability to introduce additional riders. The requested increase is attributable to additional costs relating to operating in the PJM, reliability enhancement, demand side management, additional off-system sales margin sharing and environmental compliance costs. While regulation in Indiana provides for a return on costs prudently incurred, there can be no assurance that the IURC will approve all of the costs included in our filing or that this process will result in rates providing full recovery in a timely manner. If the IURC denies the requested rate recovery, it could adversely impact future results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions. Our request for rate recovery in Ohio may not be approved in its entirety. (Applies to AEP, OPCo and CSPCo) In July 2008, within the parameters of the ESP, CSPCo and OPCo filed with the PUCO to establish rates for 2009 through 2011. CSPCo and OPCo each requested an annual rate increase for 2009 through 2011 that would not exceed approximately 15% per year. A significant portion of the requested increases results from the implementation of a fuel cost recovery mechanism that primarily includes fuel costs, purchased power costs including renewable energy, consumables such as urea, other variable production costs and gains and losses on sales of emission allowances. Management expects a PUCO decision on the ESP filings in the first quarter of 2009. CSPCo and OPCo have requested retroactive application of the new rates back to January 1, 2009 upon approval. If the PUCO denies all or part of the requested rate recovery, it could have an adverse effect on future net income, cash flows and financial condition. We may not recover costs incurred to begin constructing generating plants that are canceled. (Applies to each registrant) Our business plan for the construction of new generating units involves a number of risks, including construction delays, nonperformance by equipment suppliers, and increases in equipment and labor costs. To limit the risks of these construction projects, we enter into equipment purchase orders and construction contracts and incur engineering and design service costs in advance of receiving necessary regulatory approvals and/or siting or environmental permits. If any of these projects is canceled for any reason, including our failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals and/or siting or environmental permits, we could incur significant cancellation penalties under the equipment purchase orders and construction contracts. In addition, if we have recorded any construction work or investments as a regulatory asset we may need to impair that asset in the event the project is canceled. Rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of capital improvements, additions and other costs. (Applies to each registrant.) Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. These rates are generally regulated based on an analysis of the applicable utility’s expenses incurred in a test year. Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may or may not match its expenses at any given time. There may also be a delay between the timing of when these costs are incurred and when these costs are recovered. Traditionally, we have financed capital investments and improvements until the new asset was placed in service. Provided the asset was found to be a prudent investment, the asset was then added to rate base and entitled to a return through rate recovery. Long lead times in construction, the high costs of plant and equipment and difficult capital markets has heightened the risks involved in our capital investments and improvements. While we are actively pursuing strategies to accelerate rate recognition of investments and cash flow, including pre-approvals, a return on construction work in progress, rider/trackers, securitization, formula rates and the inclusion of future test-year projections into rates, there can be no assurance that these will be adopted, that the applicable regulatory commission will judge all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. Certain of our revenues and results of operations are subject to risks that are beyond our control. (Applies to each registrant.) Our operations are structured to comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations and we take measures to minimize the risk of significant disruptions. Material disruptions at one or more of our operational facilities, however, could negatively impact our revenues, operating and capital expenditures and results of operations. Such events may also create additional risks related to the supply and/or cost of equipment and materials. We could experience unexpected but significant interruption due to several events, including: · major facility or equipment failure; · an environmental event such as a serious spill or release; · fires, floods, droughts, earthquakes, hurricanes or other natural disasters; · wars, terrorist acts or threats and other catastrophic events; · significant health impairments or disease events, and; · other serious operational problems. We are exposed to nuclear generation risk. (Applies to AEP and I&M.) Through I&M, we own the Cook Plant. It consists of two nuclear generating units for a rated capacity of 2,191 MW, or 8-9% of the electricity we generate. We are, therefore, subject to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the following: · the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials such as spent nuclear fuel; · limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations; · uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessment amounts if insurance coverage is inadequate (federal law requires owners of nuclear units to purchase the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance and potentially contribute to the losses of others); and, · uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives. There can be no assurance that I&M’s preparations or risk mitigation measures will be adequate if and when these risks are triggered. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants such as ours. In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our plants, if an incident did occur, it could harm our results of operations or financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. Moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the U.S. could require us to make material contributory payments. The different regional power markets in which we compete or will compete in the future have changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect our performance in these regions. (Applies to each registrant.) Our results are likely to be affected by differences in the market and transmission regulatory structures in various regional power markets. The rules governing the various regional power markets, including SPP and PJM, may also change from time to time which could affect our costs or revenues. Because the manner in which RTOs will evolve remains unclear, we are unable to assess fully the impact that changes in these power markets may have on our business. The amount we charged third parties for using our transmission facilities has been reduced and is subject to refund. (Applies to AEP, APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo.) In July 2003, the FERC issued an order directing PJM and MISO to make compliance filings for their respective tariffs to eliminate the transaction-based charges for through and out (T&O) transmission service on transactions where the energy is delivered within those RTOs. The elimination of the T&O rates reduced the transmission service revenues collected by the RTOs and thereby reduced the revenues received by transmission owners under the RTOs’ revenue distribution protocols. To mitigate the impact of lost T&O revenues, the FERC approved temporary replacement seams elimination cost allocation (SECA) transition rates beginning in December 2004 and extending through March 2006. Because intervenors objected to this decision, the SECA fees we collected ($220 million) are subject to refund. A hearing was held in May 2006 to determine whether any of the SECA revenues should be refunded. In August 2006, the ALJ ruled that the rate design for the recovery of SECA charges was flawed and that a large portion was not recoverable. The ALJ found that the SECA rates charged were unfair, unjust and discriminatory, and that new compliance filings and refunds should be made. The ALJ also found that unpaid SECA rates must be paid in the recommended reduced amount. The FERC has not ruled on the matter. If the FERC upholds the decision of the ALJ, it would disallow $90 million of the AEP East companies’ remaining unsettled $108 million of unsettled gross SECA revenues. AEP has settled $112 million of SECA revenues for $10 million. We have recorded a provision for estimated settlement refunds. After completed and in-process settlements, the AEP East companies have a remaining reserve balance of $34 million to settle the remaining $108 million in unsettled gross SECA revenues. Based on this settlement history, the $34 million reserve balance should be adequate to absorb the potential refund of the remaining contested SECA rates, assuming that the claims are settled. Payments in excess of the reserve balance could harm our results of operations and financial position. An increase in the amount PJM charges us for transmitting power over its network may not be fully recoverable. (Applies to AEP and I&M.) On June 1, 2007, in response to a 2006 FERC order, PJM revised its methodology for calculating the effect of transmission line losses in generation dispatch when determining locational marginal prices. The new method is designed to recognize the varying delivery costs of transmitting electricity from individual generator locations to the places where customers consume the energy. Due to the implementation of the new methodology, we experienced an increase in the cost of transmitting energy to customer load zones in the PJM. AEP has initiated discussions with PJM regarding the impact of the new methodology and will pursue a modification through the appropriate stakeholder processes. Management believes these additional costs should be recoverable through retail and/or cost-based wholesale rates. Recovery has been authorized by the PUCO, KPSC, VSCC and WVPSC. The adjudication of the filing with the IURC is pending. In the interim, such costs in these jurisdictions will have an adverse effect on future results of operations and cash flows. Management is unable to predict whether full recovery will ultimately be approved. We could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. (Applies to each registrant.) As a result of EPACT, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC. These standards, which previously were being applied on a voluntary basis, became mandatory in June 2007. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and is guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. While we expect to recover costs and expenditures from customers through regulated rates, there can be no assurance that the applicable commissions will approve full recovery in a timely manner. If we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, which likely would not be recoverable from customers through regulated rates. At times, demand for power could exceed our supply capacity. (Applies to each registrant.) We are currently obligated to supply power in parts of eleven states. From time to time, because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for power required to meet these obligations could exceed our available generation capacity. If this occurs, we would have to buy power from the market. This would increase the pressure on our short-term debt financing capacity in times of tight liquidity. We may not always have the ability to pass these costs on to our customers, and the time lag between incurring costs and recovery can be long. Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, it is possible that the market price for power at that time would be very high. Even if a supply shortage were brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could reduce our results of operations. Risks Related to Market, Economic or Financial Volatility If we are unable to access capital markets on reasonable terms, it could have an adverse impact on our net income, cash flows and financial condition. (Applies to each registrant) We rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. The recent volatility and reduced liquidity in the financial markets could affect our ability to raise capital and fund our capital needs, including construction costs and refinancing maturing indebtedness. In addition, if capital is available only on less than reasonable terms or to borrowers whose creditworthiness is better than ours, capital costs could increase materially. Restricted access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could have an adverse impact on net income, cash flows and financial condition. Downgrades in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and/or to operate our power trading businesses. (Applies to each registrant.) The credit ratings agencies periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings. Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to our industry and could limit our access to funding for our operations. Our business is capital intensive, and we are dependent upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. In the current period of market turmoil, access to capital is difficult for all borrowers. If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our costs of capital will likely increase and our financial condition could be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected. If Moody’s or S&P were to downgrade the long-term rating of any of the securities of the registrants, particularly below investment grade, the borrowing costs of that registrant would increase, which would diminish its financial results. In addition, the registrant’s potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. Over the first two months of 2009, Moody’s placed the senior unsecured debt rating of AEP on negative outlook, the senior unsecured debt rating of OPCo, SWEPCo, TCC and TNC on review for possible downgrade and changed the outlook of APCo from negative to stable. In February 2008 Fitch downgraded the senior unsecured debt rating of PSO to BBB+ with stable outlook. Fitch placed the senior unsecured debt rating of APCo and TCC on negative outlook in May 2008 and February 2009, respectively. Our power trading business relies on the investment grade ratings of our individual public utility subsidiaries’ senior unsecured long-term debt. Most of our counterparties require the creditworthiness of an investment grade entity to stand behind transactions. If those ratings were to decline below investment grade, our ability to operate our power trading business profitably would be diminished because we would likely have to deposit cash or cash-related instruments which would reduce our profits. Our retirement plans may require additional significant contributions. (Applies to each registrant.) The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. The recent deterioration of the capital markets has led to a decline in the market value of these assets and a reduction in the benchmark discount rate with respect to a return on these assets. Accordingly, we expect that our future funding requirements of the obligations under our defined benefit plans to significantly increase. AEP has no income or cash flow apart from dividends paid or other obligations due it from its subsidiaries. (Applies to AEP.) AEP is a holding company and has no operations of its own. Its ability to meet its financial obligations associated with its indebtedness and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries, primarily its regulated utilities, and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to, or repay loans from, AEP. Its subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that have no obligation (apart from loans from AEP) to provide AEP with funds for its payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions or other payments. Payments to AEP by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon their earnings and business considerations. In addition, any payment of dividends, distributions or advances by the utility subsidiaries to AEP would be subject to regulatory or contractual restrictions. AEP indebtedness and common stock dividends are effectively subordinated to all subsidiary indebtedness and preferred stock obligations. Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal or quarterly basis and with general economic conditions. (Applies to each registrant.) Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the terms of power sale contracts that we enter into. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase AEP’s results of operations in a manner that would not likely be sustainable. Further, deteriorating economic conditions generally result in reduced consumption by our customers, particularly industrial customers who may curtail operations or cease production entirely, while an expanding economic environment generally results in increased revenues. As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate on the basis of prevailing economic conditions. For example, a leading customer of APCO, Century Aluminum in West Virginia, announced in February 2009 that it was ceasing operations. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm our results of operations. (Applies to each registrant.) Certain events, such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skillset or complement to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges and increased costs. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate our business. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be negatively affected. Parties we have engaged to provide construction materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. (Applies to each registrant.) Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, construction of additional generation units and transmission facilities as well as other initiatives. We are exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of materials used in construction. We have engaged numerous contractors and entered into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related services. As a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and almost certainly cause delays in that and related projects. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This would cause our financial results to be diminished, and we might incur losses or delays in completing construction. Changes in commodity prices and the costs of transport may increase our cost of producing power or decrease the amount we receive from selling power, harming our financial performance. (Applies to each registrant.) We are exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal and the price and availability to transport coal because most of our generating capacity is coal-fired. We have contracts of varying durations for the supply of coal for most of our existing generation capacity, but as these contracts end or otherwise are not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts. Similarly, we are exposed to changes in the price and availability of emission allowances. We use emission allowances based on the amount of coal we use as fuel and the reductions achieved through emission controls and other measures. According to our estimates, we have procured sufficient emission allowances to cover our projected needs for the next two years and for much of the projected needs for periods beyond that. At some point, however, we may have to obtain additional allowances and those purchases may not be on as favorable terms as those currently obtained. We also own natural gas-fired facilities, which increases our exposure to market prices of natural gas. Natural gas prices tend to be more volatile than prices for other fuel sources. Our ability to make off-system sales at a profit is highly dependent on the price of natural gas. As the price of natural gas falls, other market participants that utilize natural gas-fired generation will be able to offer electricity at increasingly competitive prices relative to our off-system sales prices, so the margins we realize from sales will be lower and, on occasion, we may need to curtail operation of marginal plants. The price trends for coal, natural gas and emission allowances have shown material increases in the recent past. Changes in the cost of coal, emission allowances or natural gas and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of power will affect our financial results. Since the prices we obtain for power may not change at the same rate as the change in coal, emission allowances or natural gas costs, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers. In addition, actual power prices and fuel costs will differ from those assumed in financial projections used to value our trading and marketing transactions, and those differences may be material. As a result, our financial results may be diminished in the future as those transactions are marked to market. In Ohio, we have limited ability to pass on our fuel costs to our customers. (Applies to AEP, CSPCo and OPCo.) Because generation is no longer regulated in Ohio, we are exposed to risk from changes in the market prices of coal, natural gas, and emissions allowances used to generate power. The prices of coal, natural gas and emissions allowances have increased materially in the recent past. The protection afforded by retail fuel clause recovery mechanisms has been eliminated by the implementation of customer choice in Ohio, which represents approximately 20% of our fuel costs. As long as generating costs cannot be passed through to customers as a matter of right in Ohio, we retain these risks. If we cannot recover an amount sufficient to cover our actual fuel costs, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Risks Relating to State Restructuring There is uncertainty as to our recovery of stranded costs resulting from industry restructuring in Texas. (Applies to AEP.) Restructuring legislation in Texas required utilities with stranded costs to use market-based methods to value certain generating assets for determining stranded costs. We elected to use the sale of assets method to determine the market value of TCC’s generation assets for stranded cost purposes. In general terms, the amount of stranded costs under this market valuation methodology is the amount by which the book value of generating assets, including regulatory assets and liabilities that were not securitized, exceeds the market value of the generation assets, as measured by the net proceeds from the sale of the assets. In May 2005, TCC filed its stranded cost quantification application with the PUCT seeking recovery of $2.4 billion of net stranded generation costs and other recoverable true-up items. A final order was issued in April 2006. In the final order, the PUCT determined TCC’s net stranded generation costs and other recoverable true-up items to be approximately $1.475 billion. We have appealed the PUCT’s final order seeking additional recovery consistent with the Texas Restructuring Legislation and related rules, other parties have appealed the PUCT’s final order as unwarranted or too large. Management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of any future court appeals or any future remanded PUCT proceeding. Collection of our revenues in Texas is concentrated in a limited number of REPs. (Applies to AEP.) Our revenues from the distribution of electricity in the ERCOT area of Texas are collected from REPs that supply the electricity we distribute to their customers. Currently, we do business with approximately seventy REPs. In 2008, TCC’s largest customer accounted for 28% of its operating revenues; TNC’s largest customer (a non-utility affiliate) accounted for 28% of its operating revenues and its second largest customer accounted for 12% of its operating revenues. Adverse economic conditions, structural problems in the Texas market or financial difficulties of one or more REPs could impair the ability of these REPs to pay for our services or could cause them to delay such payments. We depend on these REPs for timely remittance of payments. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect the timing and receipt of our cash flows and thereby have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Risks Related to Owning and Operating Generation Assets and Selling Power Our costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws could harm our cash flow and profitability or cause some of our electric generating units to be uneconomical to maintain or operate. (Applies to each registrant) Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and health and safety. Approximately 90% of the electricity generated by the AEP system is produced by the combustion of fossil fuels. Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury and particulates from fossil fueled generating plants are potentially subject to increased regulations, controls and mitigation expenses. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees and permits at all of our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past, and we expect that they will increase in the future. Further, environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies in the United States are focusing considerable attention on CO2 emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. Although several bills have been introduced in Congress that would compel CO2 emission reductions, none have advanced through the legislature. In April 2007 the U.S. Supreme Court determined that CO2 is an “air pollutant” and that the Federal EPA has authority to regulate CO2 emissions under the CAA. In July 2008 the Federal EPA issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPR) that requests comments on a wide variety of issues in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision. The ANPR could lead to regulations limiting the emissions of CO2 from our generating plants. In addition, the Obama administration has indicated that it intends to focus on reducing CO2 emissions. Costs of compliance with environmental regulations could adversely affect our net income and financial position, especially if emission and/or discharge limits are tightened, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed, additional substances become regulated and the number and types of assets we operate increase. All of our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties about the outcome of several interrelated assumptions and variables, including timing of implementation, required levels of reductions, allocation requirements of the new rules and our selected compliance alternatives. As a result, we cannot estimate our compliance costs with certainty. The actual costs to comply could differ significantly from our estimates. All of the costs are incremental to our current investment base and operating cost structure. In addition, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our emissions beyond present levels could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of CO2 legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. While we expect to recover our expenditures for pollution control technologies, replacement generation and associated operating costs from customers through regulated rates (in regulated jurisdictions) or market prices, without such recovery those costs could adversely affect future net income and cash flows, and possibly financial condition. Governmental authorities may assess penalties on us if it is determined that we have not complied with environmental laws and regulations. (Applies to each registrant.) If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines against us. In July 2004 attorneys general of eight states and others sued AEP and other utilities alleging that CO2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal common law. The trial court dismissed the suits and plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal. While we believe the claims are without merit, the costs associated with reducing CO2 emissions could harm our business and our results of operations and financial position. If these or other future actions are resolved against us, substantial modifications of our existing coal-fired power plants could be required. In addition, we could be required to invest significantly in additional emission control equipment, accelerate the timing of capital expenditures, pay penalties and/or halt operations. Moreover, our results of operations and financial position could be reduced due to the timing of recovery of these investments and the expense of ongoing litigation. Our financial performance may be impaired if Cook Plant Unit 1 is not returned to service in a reasonable period of time or in a cost-efficient manner. (Applies to AEP and I&M) Cook Plant Unit 1 is a 1,055 MW nuclear generating unit located in Bridgman, Michigan. In September 2008, I&M shut down Unit 1 due to turbine vibrations, likely caused by blade failure, which resulted in a fire on the electric generator. I&M is working with its insurance company and turbine vendor to evaluate the extent of the damage resulting from the incident and the costs to return the unit to service. Repair and replacement of the turbine rotors is estimated to cost up to approximately $330 million. Management believes that I&M should recover a significant portion of these costs through the turbine vendor’s warranty, insurance and the regulatory process. If any of these costs are not covered by warranty, insurance or recovered through the regulatory process, or if the unit is not returned to service in a reasonable period of time, it could have an adverse impact on net income, cash flows and financial condition. Our revenues and results of operations from selling power are subject to market risks that are beyond our control. (Applies to each registrant.) We sell power from our generation facilities into the spot market or other competitive power markets or on a contractual basis. We also enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, emission allowances and coal as part of our power marketing and energy trading operations. With respect to such transactions, the rate of return on our capital investments is not determined through mandated rates, and our revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power in our regional markets and other competitive markets. These market prices can fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. Trading margins may erode as markets mature and there may be diminished opportunities for gain should volatility decline. In addition, the FERC, which has jurisdiction over wholesale power rates, as well as RTOs that oversee some of these markets, may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in these markets. Power supply and other similar agreements entered into during extreme market conditions may subsequently be held to be unenforceable by a reviewing court or the FERC. Fuel and emissions prices may also be volatile, and the price we can obtain for power sales may not change at the same rate as changes in fuel and/or emissions costs. These factors could reduce our margins and therefore diminish our revenues and results of operations. Volatility in market prices for fuel and power may result from: · weather conditions; · seasonality; · power usage; · illiquid markets; · transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; · availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; · demand for energy commodities; · natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal production levels; · natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and · federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. Our power trading (including coal, gas and emission allowances trading and power marketing) and risk management policies cannot eliminate the risk associated with these activities. (Applies to each registrant.) Our power trading (including coal, gas and emission allowances trading and power marketing) activities expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We attempt to manage our exposure by establishing and enforcing risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with these activities. As a result, we cannot predict the impact that our energy trading and risk management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position. We routinely have open trading positions in the market, within guidelines we set, resulting from the management of our trading portfolio. To the extent open trading positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve or diminish our financial results and financial position. Our power trading and risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as the future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. These factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. Even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate. Our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to operate our pooled electric generating facilities successfully. (Applies to each registrant.) Our performance is highly dependent on the successful operation of our electric generating facilities. Operating electric generating facilities involves many risks, including: · operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; · operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; · labor disputes; · fuel supply interruptions caused by transportation constraints, adverse weather, non-performance by our suppliers and other factors; and · catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, hurricanes, terrorism, floods or other similar occurrences. A decrease or elimination of revenues from power produced by our electric generating facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would adversely affect our results of operations. Parties with whom we have contracts may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. (Applies to each registrant.) We are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money or power could breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses. Although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by a counterparty may be greater than the estimates predict. We rely on electric transmission facilities that we do not own or control. If these facilities do not provide us with adequate transmission capacity, we may not be able to deliver our wholesale electric power to the purchasers of our power. (Applies to each registrant.) We depend on transmission facilities owned and operated by other unaffiliated power companies to deliver the power we sell at wholesale. This dependence exposes us to a variety of risks. If transmission is disrupted, or transmission capacity is inadequate, we may not be able to sell and deliver our wholesale power. If a region’s power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, our recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. If restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. The FERC has issued electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales. Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions for electricity and gas, access to transmission systems may in fact not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. We also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets. We do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. (Applies to each registrant.) We routinely enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, coal and emission allowances as part of our power marketing and energy and emission allowances trading operations. In connection with these trading activities, we routinely enter into financial contracts, including futures and options, over-the counter options, financially-settled swaps and other derivative contracts. These activities expose us to risks from price movements. If the values of the financial contracts change in a manner we do not anticipate, it could harm our financial position or reduce the financial contribution of our trading operations. We manage our exposure by establishing risk limits and entering into contracts to offset some of our positions (i.e., to hedge our exposure to demand, market effects of weather and other changes in commodity prices). However, we do not always hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position may be improved or diminished based upon our success in the market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 