Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business. Such factors significantly affect or could significantly affect our business, operating results or financial condition. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that have been made pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our life settlement transaction volumes and the trading price of our stock have declined following adverse publicity about our business and the filing of an SEC enforcement action. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we were hurt by news articles critical of our business and by the announcement of a pending SEC investigation. Several putative securities class actions and shareholder derivative claims were subsequently filed against us and certain officers and, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, the SEC filed a civil enforcement action against us and certain officers. These developments adversely affected our licensee network and purchaser base. Our volume of life settlement transactions dropped, as did our profitability and stock price. The developments particularly affected our business in that we are the only publicly held, life settlement company and the only prominent company with a broad, retail base within the life settlement industry. We believe the adverse publicity affected our client base more acutely than the publicity might have affected a company with an institutional-oriented base. Whether we can restore our transaction volumes will depend largely on our success in restoring trust and confidence within our licensee network and purchaser base and in resolving the SEC suit. We believe the news articles portrayed us in a false light, and we have worked with our licensees and clients to restore lost confidence and rebut the charges in the articles. Whether we can gradually repair our client base and return to the levels of activity we enjoyed in fiscal 2009 and 2010 will depend largely on whether the SEC suit can be resolved satisfactorily. If the SEC suit lingers or is not resolved satisfactorily, our business will continue to suffer. 8 The outcomes of the SEC enforcement action and the civil suits filed against us could hurt our business significantly. The SEC has filed an enforcement action against us and certain of our current and former officers. In addition, there are pending putative securities and breach of fiduciary duty class actions and shareholder derivative claims related to our business and that of our operating subsidiary, LPI, which pose significant risks for our business. In the SEC enforcement action, the SEC is seeking monetary and injunctive relief against us and three of our current or former executive officers, Brian D. Pardo, R. Scott Peden and David Martin, for possible violations of Federal securities laws. These claims relate primarily to our knowledge of, and disclosures about, the accuracy of the estimates of the life expectancies of insureds and our disclosures relating to certain accounting policies and practices, including revenue recognition and the impairment of life settlements held by us for investment. While we deny the claims, we cannot predict what the outcome of the action may be. The SEC investigation and the subsequent enforcement action has required considerable legal expense and management’s time and attention and has damaged our licensee network and purchaser base, which are crucial to our transaction volumes. Moreover, the enforcement proceeding could subject us or our management to injunctions, fines, and other penalties or sanctions, loss of key personnel, or other adverse consequences. Our executive management team is relatively small and their industry knowledge is unique and highly specialized. SEC sanctions against one or more of our executive officers would be highly damaging to us. The pending putative private securities and breach of fiduciary duty class actions and shareholder derivative claims were filed following the announcement of the SEC investigation and a series of news articles critical of our business, which resulted in a drop in our stock price. The complaints fall generally into three categories. The first alleges that we and certain of our current and former officers violated disclosure regulations under the Federal securities laws. A second category is shareholder derivative claims alleging the directors’ breaches of fiduciary duties relating to false or omitted disclosures. A third category of complaints are life settlement purchaser claims alleging breach of fiduciary duties, breach of contract or both in the underestimation of life expectancies. While we believe we have complied with the Federal securities laws, have breached no duties, and will prevail if these claims are adjudicated, the legal defense costs are a significant expense to us. These kinds of actions are complex and often continue for years. The burden of continuing the legal defense will weigh on our business, impact results of operations and cash flows, and depress the price of our stock. Our success depends on restoring trust within our referral networks. We rely primarily upon brokers to refer potential sellers of policies to us and upon financial professionals, known as licensees, to refer retail purchasers to us. These relationships are essential to our operations and we must maintain these relationships to be successful. We do not have fixed contractual arrangements with life settlement brokers, and they are free to do business with our competitors. Our network of licensees is much broader, but no less important. The announcements of the SEC investigation and subsequent enforcement action, other private litigation, and critical news articles have damaged our reputation within the industry and have hurt our business. We have experienced concentrations in our broker network, which may result from the SEC and related actions. Our licensee network was particularly hurt, which has reduced the supply of capital for the purchase of life settlements and our transaction volumes. Our ability to restore and sustain relationships with our licensees and brokers will depend upon our ability to rebut the adverse publicity, to restore trust in the relationships, to resolve the SEC litigation satisfactorily, to maintain reasonable settlement closing rates, to bring value to our retail clients, and to compensate the referring professional at reasonable levels. 9 The extent to which the life settlement market will recover following the economic crisis is uncertain. After several years of growth, the life settlement market has declined since 2008 in the wake of the economic crisis. The capital markets appear to have turned away from alternative asset classes. Whether and when the life settlement market will return to prior levels or beyond may be affected by a variety of factors, including: ·The ability to attract sufficient qualified purchasers; ·The ability to convince potential sellers of the benefits of life settlements; ·The occurrence of illegal or abusive business practices resulting in negative publicity about the market; and ·The adoption of less stringent governmental regulation. The slow economy appears to be hampering the recovery of the life settlement market. If the life settlement market does not recover to prior levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. A growing trend to treat life settlements as securities could disrupt our business model, which currently relies on our life settlement transactions not being securities. Our business model relies on retail sales of policies to financially sophisticated, high net worth individuals. We generally do not treat these sales as securities transactions under Federal securities laws in reliance on a 1996 Federal District of Columbia Circuit case dealing specifically with our settlement transactions, which held that our settlement transactions were not securities under Federal law. Under state securities laws, we generally rely on various exceptions or registration exemptions that enable our settlement transactions in those states. There has been a growing trend, however, to treat life settlements as securities under Federal or state securities laws. In July 2010, the SEC issued a staff report recommending that Congress adopt legislation regulating life settlements as securities. If the Federal securities laws were amended to cover life settlements and no exemption from registration were available, our retail-based purchasing model would be significantly disrupted. Our model could also be disrupted by the further application of state securities registration requirements, especially in those states in which we have significant purchaser demand. A change under Federal 2012 JOBS Act permitting the general solicitation of accredited investors would expand Federal and state exemptions from registration. This expansion would match our business model well and greatly reduce the risks posed by securities registration. The rule implementing this provision is proposed, but not adopted, and may be adopted in conjunction with a rule prohibiting the use of the exemption by persons who have been convicted of, or are subject to court or administrative sanctions for, securities fraud or other violations of financial regulatory laws. While this restriction would not presently affect us, an adverse outcome in the SEC proceeding could apply this restriction and prevent our use of the expanded exemption. 10 Our purchasers depend on our ability to predict life expectancies and set appropriate prices; if our investment returns are not competitive, we may lose purchasers. We price settlements based on the policy face amount, the anticipated life expectancy of an insured and policy maintenance costs. Life expectancy opinions are estimated from medical and actuarial data, which is adjusted by the opinion-givers to account for the insured’s medical conditions, family health history, and social/lifestyle factors. The data is based necessarily on statistical probabilities involving mortality and morbidity data and, with respect to the opinions of our outside practicing physician, upon his assessment of the effects of the insured’s condition. The outcome of a single settlement may vary significantly from the statistical average. It is impossible to predict any one insured’s life expectancy exactly. To mitigate the risk that an insured will outlive his or her predicted life expectancy, we price life settlements to yield positive returns even if this life expectancy estimate is exceeded by several years. In addition, life settlement purchasers must be able to bear a non-liquid investment for an indeterminate period. If we underestimate the average life expectancies and price our transactions too high, our purchasers will realize smaller returns, demand may fall, and purchasers may invest their funds elsewhere. In addition, amounts escrowed for premiums may be insufficient to keep the policy in force, requiring purchasers to invest further proceeds to pay these additional premiums, which weakens demand for future settlements and hurts our goodwill with purchasers. If we overestimate the average life expectancies, the settlement prices we offer will fall below market levels, the policy supply will decrease, and sellers may engage in business with our competitors or pursue other alternatives. Our ability to accurately predict life expectancies and price accordingly is affected by a number of factors, including: ·The accuracy of our life expectancy estimates, which must sufficiently account for factors including an insured’s age, medical condition, life habits (such as smoking), and geographic location; ·Our ability to anticipate and adjust for trends, such as advances in medical treatments, that affect life expectancy data; and ·Our ability to balance competing interests when pricing settlements, such as the amounts paid to policy sellers, the acquisition costs paid by purchasers, and the compensation paid to ourselves and our referral networks. To support our pricing systems, we use life expectancy estimates from an outside practicing physician and a leading industry provider. We cannot assure purchasers that, despite our experience in settlement pricing, we will not err by underestimating or overestimating average life expectancies or miscalculating reserve amounts for future premiums. If we do so, we could lose purchasers or policy sellers, and those losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on outside advisors for life expectancy estimates. An important component of our pricing system is the life expectancy estimate. Rather than assessing life expectancy in-house, we have relied historically on an outside practicing physician, Dr. Donald T. Cassidy, of Reno, Nevada. In fiscal 2012, we implemented a practice of obtaining a second life expectancy estimate from a leading industry provider, 21st Services, LLC, in addition to Dr. Cassidy’s estimate. We believe a life expectancy estimate that accounts for individual circumstances is useful in arriving at a settlement price and is preferable to a probabilistic methodology that relies solely on actuarial and statistical data. While their methodologies and data sourcing vary somewhat, each of the analyses done by Dr. Cassidy or 21st Services adjusts the estimate from life expectancy tables to account for the insured’s medical conditions, family health history, and social/lifestyle factors. While we believe these adjustments will produce life expectancy estimates that are more appropriate for pricing individual policies, any methodology is merely an estimate of how long the insured will live based upon statistical probability, medical and actuarial data, and the interpretation of such data, and no one can predict with certainty when a particular insured will die. In using estimates, we are relying upon predictions that are inherently uncertain. If those estimates tended consistently to underestimate or overestimate life expectancies, our business could be adversely affected. 11 Government regulation could negatively impact our business. We are licensed and regulated by the Texas Department of Insurance as a viatical and life settlement company and hold licenses as a life settlement provider in other states as well. State laws requiring the licensing of life settlement providers govern many aspects of our conduct, operations, advertising and disclosures and are designed to afford consumer-protection benefits. The laws may vary from state to state, however, and our activities and those of brokers with whom we do business can be affected by changes in these laws or different interpretations of these laws. In addition, some states and the SEC treat certain life settlements as securities under state and Federal securities laws, which pose unique risks. While we believe consumer protection-type laws and insurance regulations are important to maintain a healthy industry, compliance with laws regulating life settlement companies and life settlement providers is costly and complex and poses a risk of inadvertent violation. Further, changes in these laws or governmental regulation could affect our brokers or clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer beneficially owns 50% of our common stock and, as a result, can exercise significant influence over us. Under SEC regulations, Mr. Brian D. Pardo, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is considered the beneficial owner of approximately 50% of our common stock, largely as the result of exercising voting power by proxy over shares held by The Pardo Family Trust. He will be able to control most matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. His voting control affects indirectly the process for nominating directors, since theoretically he could nominate and elect directors without board involvement. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Life Partners, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 