Item 1a. Risk Factors In addition to other information in this annual report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business. Such factors significantly affect or could significantly affect our business, operating results or financial condition. This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that have been made pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. We Depend on Growth in the Life Settlement Market Growth of the life settlement market and our expansion within the market may be affected by a variety of factors, including: · The inability to identify sufficient numbers of qualified policies to meet demand; · The inability to convince potential sellers of the benefits of life settlements; · The inability to attract sufficient qualified purchasers; · Competition from other life settlement companies; · The occurrence of illegal or abusive business practices resulting in negative publicity about the market; and · The adoption of overly burdensome governmental regulation. In addition, the life settlement market may evolve in ways we have not anticipated and we may be unable to respond in a timely or cost-effective manner. If the life settlement market fails to grow as quickly as or in the directions we have anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected as it relates to our large-scale growth. Our Success Depends on Maintaining Relationships within Our Referral Networks We rely primarily upon brokers to refer potential sellers of policies to us and upon financial professionals, known as licensees, to refer retail purchasers to us. These relationships are essential to our operations and we must maintain these relationships to be successful. We do not have fixed contractual arrangements with life settlement brokers and they are free to do business with our competitors. Our network of licensees is much broader, but no less important. Our ability to build and maintain relationships with our licensees will depend upon our closing rates, the value we bring to our retail clients and the level of compensation we pay to the referring professional. The compensation paid to the referring professional will affect the offer price to the seller and the compensation we receive. We must balance these interests successfully to build our referring network and attain greater profitability. 9 Our Purchasers Depend on Our Ability to Predict Life Expectancies and Set Appropriate Prices; If Our Investment Returns Are Not Competitive, We May Lose Purchasers A purchaser’s investment return from a life settlement depends on three factors: the difference between the policy face amount and purchaser’s cost basis (consisting of the acquisition cost and premiums paid to maintain the policy), the length of the holding period, and the demise of the insured. We price settlements based on the policy face amount, the anticipated life expectancy of an insured and policy maintenance costs. Life expectancies are generally estimated from standard medical and actuarial data based on the historical experiences of similarly situated persons. The data is necessarily based on averages involving mortality and morbidity statistics. The outcome of a single settlement may vary significantly from the statistical average. It is impossible to predict any one insured’s life expectancy exactly. To mitigate the risk that an insured will outlive his or her predicted life expectancy, we price life settlements to yield competitive returns even if this life expectancy prediction is exceeded by several years. In addition, life settlement purchasers must be able to bear a non-liquid investment for an indeterminate period. If we underestimate the average life expectancies and price our transactions too high, our purchasers will realize smaller returns, demand may fall, and purchasers may invest their funds elsewhere. In addition, amounts escrowed for premiums may be insufficient to keep the policy in force, requiring purchasers to invest further proceeds to pay these additional premiums. If we overestimate the average life expectancies, the settlement prices we offer will fall below market levels, supply will decrease, and sellers may engage in business with our competitors or pursue other alternatives. Our ability to accurately predict life expectancies and price accordingly is affected by a number of factors, including: · The accuracy of our life expectancy estimations, which must sufficiently account for factors including an insured’s age, medical condition, life habits (such as smoking), and geographic location; · Our ability to anticipate and adjust for trends, such as advances in medical treatments, that affect life expectancy data; and · Our ability to balance competing interests when pricing settlements, such as the amounts paid to policy sellers, the acquisition costs paid by purchasers, and the compensation paid to ourselves and our referral networks. To foster the integrity of our pricing systems, we use both in-house and outside experts, including medical doctors and published actuarial data. We cannot assure you that, despite our experience in settlement pricing, we will not err by underestimating or overestimating average life expectancies or miscalculating reserve amounts for future premiums. If we do so, we could lose purchasers or policy sellers, and those losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Government Regulation Could Negatively Impact Our Business We are licensed and regulated by the Texas Department of Insurance as a viatical and life settlement company and hold licenses as a life settlement provider in other states as well. State laws requiring the licensing of life settlement providers govern many aspects of our conduct, operations, advertising and disclosures. The laws may vary from state to state, however, and our activities and those of brokers with whom we do business can be affected by changes in these laws or different interpretations of these laws. In addition, some states and the Securities and Exchange Commission treat certain life settlements as securities under state and federal securities laws. Because of legal precedent relating to our settlements and the possible availability of exceptions or exemptions under the securities laws, we do not believe that the application of securities laws will have a material adverse effect on our operations, but cannot assure you that securities regulators or private individuals will not attempt to apply the securities laws to our settlements or that defending such attempts would not have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, changes in laws or governmental regulation could affect our brokers or clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 We Are Operating in an Evolving Market that May Be Volatile We are operating in the life settlement market, which is a relatively new market within the financial services sector. Although it has grown exponentially in the past few years, how and to what extent it will continue to develop is uncertain. Because we are the only substantial publicly reporting company in this industry, measuring the market is difficult. As more insureds become aware of life settlements as a financial planning option, we expect the size of the market to grow substantially. While we have demonstrated our ability to originate, underwrite and place life settlements with our retail purchasers, any dramatic growth will depend heavily upon the entry of institutional purchasers and the increase in presentations of policies with face values in excess of $5 million. Whether we can maintain markets for such policies will depend on our ability to attract more institutional and accredited investors and convince these purchasers that we can originate sufficient numbers of qualified policies for purchase and that our policy analysis and pricing practices are sound. Until we attract a sufficient number of institutional clients to provide for consistent and predictable demand in addition to the demand from our retail clients, our financial performance during any period may be materially affected by the entry or departure of one or more of our institutional clients from the market. While we are among the most experienced and largest companies within these markets, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by those attempting to operate in evolving markets. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in addressing the risks we face. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of future operations. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Beneficially Owns 50% of Our Common Stock and, as a Result, Can Exercise Significant Influence over Our Company Under SEC regulations, Mr. Brian D. Pardo, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, may be considered the beneficial owner of approximately 50% of our common stock, largely as the result of exercising voting power by proxy over shares held by The Pardo Family Trust. He will be able to control most matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. His voting control affects indirectly the process for nominating directors, since theoretically he could nominate and elect directors without board involvement. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Life Partners, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received within 180 days before February 28, 2009, written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that remain unresolved. Item 