Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business. Such factors significantly affect or could significantly affect our business, operating results or financial condition. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that have been made pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 7 Our life settlement transaction volumes and revenues and earnings have declined following adverse news articles about our business, the filing of an SEC enforcement action and negative publicity much of which we believe was fomented by illegal short sellers of our stock. Whether and when we might recover from these events is uncertain. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we were hurt by news articles critical of our business and by the announcement of a pending SEC investigation. Several putative securities class actions and shareholder derivative claims were subsequently filed against us and certain officers and, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, the SEC filed a civil enforcement action against us and certain officers. The SEC action was largely resolved in our favor in March 2014, and we have had some success with the civil litigation as well. Despite our successes in the legal proceedings, our business has not yet fully recovered from the damage done by these events. Our volume of life settlement transactions dropped, as did our profitability. The events particularly affected our business in that we are the only publicly held company dedicated to life settlements and the only prominent company with a broad, retail base within the life settlement industry. We are working to repair the damage caused by the SEC suit, restore trust and confidence within our licensee network and purchaser base, and rebuild our reputation within the industry. We cannot say, however, when or if we can accomplish these tasks and return to the levels of activity we previously enjoyed. Our success depends on restoring trust within our referral networks. We rely primarily upon brokers to refer potential sellers of policies to us and upon financial professionals, known as licensees, to refer retail purchasers to us. These relationships are essential to our operations and we must maintain these relationships to be successful. We do not have fixed contractual arrangements with life settlement brokers, and they are free to do business with our competitors. Our network of licensees is much broader, but no less important. The announcements of the SEC investigation and subsequent enforcement action, other private litigation, illegal short selling and critical news articles have damaged our reputation within the industry and have hurt our business. Our licensee network was particularly hurt, which has reduced the supply of capital for the purchase of life settlements and our transaction volumes. The restoration of the relationships with our licensees and brokers will depend upon our ability to rebut the adverse publicity and to restore trust in these relationships. If we fail to price policies to yield competitive returns, we may lose purchasers. We price settlements based on a number of factors including the policy face amount, policy maintenance costs, achieving a competitive return and maintaining a profitable transaction, even if the insured lives into their early to mid-nineties. If our pricing method indicates values that are not competitive in the marketplace, we could lose purchasers and/or policy sellers, and those losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on outside advisors for life expectancy estimates. We have historically relied on an outside practicing oncologist, Dr. Donald T. Cassidy, of Reno, Nevada. In fiscal 2012, we implemented a practice of obtaining a second life expectancy estimate from a leading industry provider, 21st Services, LLC, in addition to Dr. Cassidy’s estimate. We believe a life expectancy estimate that accounts for individual circumstances is preferable to a probabilistic methodology that relies solely on actuarial and statistical data. While their methodologies and data sourcing vary somewhat, each of the analyses done by Dr. Cassidy or 21st Services adjusts the estimate from life expectancy tables to account for the insured’s medical conditions, family health history, and social/lifestyle factors. If those estimates consistently tended to underestimate life expectancies, our business could be adversely affected. 8 The expanding market for life settlement resales may divert purchasers from initial life settlement transactions. As the life settlement industry matures, the secondary market for life insurance policies is expanding to include resales of life settlements. Our business model accommodates the resales of life settlements. Our revenues from resales, also referred to as tertiary sales, grew from 12% of our total revenues in fiscal 2013 to 45% of our total revenues in fiscal 2014. The growth in tertiary sales has to some extent offset a decline in our sales of life settlements from insureds to an initial purchaser. Our initial sales declined from $16.6 million in fiscal 2013 to $8.6 million in fiscal 2014. Rather than expanding the secondary life settlements market, it appears that tertiary sales are diverting purchasers from initial sales. While continuing to accommodate tertiary sales, we are taking additional steps to interest more purchasers in secondary sales. Without a solid volume of initial sales, the supply of policies for tertiary sales will eventually decline, which would result in further declines in our revenues. We have an investment in a life settlement trust that is threatened with foreclosure. We may lose our investment. Our balance sheet shows $6,648,478 as an “Investment in Life Settlements Trust”. The investment is in Life Assets Trust, S.A., an unaffiliated Luxembourg joint stock company (the “Trust”), which was created for the acquisition of life settlements. As of February 28, 2014, we owned approximately 19.9% of the Trust, which we believe then owned a portfolio of 228 life insurance settlements with a face value of $610.5 million, of which we supplied settlements with a face value of approximately $278 million. In May 2013, we assigned certain rights to receive future distributions from the Trust for $5,650,000. We subsequently learned that a German bank, which had loaned the Trust funds for policy acquisitions, would not renew its loan and was seeking repayment. The Trust was unsuccessful in its attempts to refinance the loan and to negotiate a settlement with the bank. The bank has declared the loan in default and has instituted proceedings to foreclose its security interest in the Trust’s assets and take the assets in satisfaction of the loan. We, along with the other limited partners and general partner of the Trust, have retained legal counsel to represent our interests. While we currently believe we will fully realize the carrying balance of our investment, circumstances could change and we may have a loss. See Footnote 10. Investment in Life Settlement Trust. While we prevailed on the fraud and insider trading charges in the SEC enforcement action, we were found to have violated lesser charges. The court has not determined the appropriate relief for these violations. In its enforcement action against us, the SEC asserted multiple claims against us and certain of our executive officers, including fraud and insider trading claims. The jury found in our favor on the majority of the claims, including all fraud and insider trading claims. However, the jury found against us and our CEO, Brian Pardo, and General Counsel, Scott Peden, regarding violations relating to our revenue recognition policies and a restatement of revenues. It also found against Mr. Pardo for having improperly certified our SEC reports. The SEC did not introduce any evidence regarding these revenue recognition issues and in a subsequent ruling the court found there was no evidence of any fraud. The court has not determined what relief it might award for the violations. In light of the rejection of the most serious charges, we do not anticipate that the court would issue injunctive relief against us or our officers. However, the issuance of injunctive relief against us could prevent our use of certain exemptions from securities registration that could be important to our operations. 9 Government regulation could negatively impact our business. We are licensed and regulated by the Texas Department of Insurance as a viatical and life settlement company and hold licenses as a life settlement provider in other states as well. State laws requiring the licensing of life settlement providers govern many aspects of our conduct, operations, advertising and disclosures and are designed to afford consumer-protection benefits. The laws vary from state to state, however, and our activities and those of brokers with whom we do business can be affected by changes in these laws. Compliance with current laws regulating life settlement companies and life settlement providers is costly and complex. Any changes in these laws or governmental regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer beneficially owns 50% of our common stock and, as a result, can exercise significant influence over us. Under SEC regulations, Mr. Brian D. Pardo, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is considered the beneficial owner of approximately 50% of our common stock, largely as the result of exercising voting power by proxy over shares held by The Pardo Family Trust. He could control most matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 