ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this document, readers should carefully consider the following risk factors. Any of these risks or the occurrence of any one or more of the uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and the performance of its business. The Company refers to itself as "we", "us" or "our" in the following risk factors.Real Estate Industry RisksWe face risks associated with local real estate conditions in areas where we own properties. We may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and local real estate conditions. For example, an oversupply of industrial properties in a local area or a decline in the attractiveness of our properties to tenants would have a negative effect on us. Other factors that may affect general economic conditions or local real estate conditions include:•population and demographic trends;•employment and personal income trends;•income and other tax laws;•changes in interest rates and availability and costs of financing;•increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes, due to inflation and other factors which may not necessarily be offset by increased rents; and•construction costs.We may be unable to compete for properties and tenants. The real estate business is highly competitive. We compete for interests in properties with other real estate investors and purchasers, some of whom have greater financial resources, revenues and geographical diversity than we have. Furthermore, we compete for tenants with other property owners. All of our industrial properties are subject to significant local competition. We also compete with a wide variety of institutions and other investors for capital funds necessary to support our investment activities and asset growth.We are subject to significant regulation that constrains our activities. Local zoning and land use laws, environmental statutes and other governmental requirements restrict our expansion, rehabilitation and reconstruction activities. These regulations may prevent us from taking advantage of economic opportunities. Legislation such as the Americans with Disabilities Act may require us to 5modify our properties, and noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. Future legislation may impose additional requirements. We cannot predict what requirements may be enacted or what changes may be implemented to existing legislation.Risks Associated with Our PropertiesWe may be unable to lease space. When a lease expires, a tenant may elect not to renew it. We may not be able to re-lease the property on similar terms, if we are able to re-lease the property at all. The terms of renewal or re-lease (including the cost of required renovations and/or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable to us than the prior lease. We also develop some properties with no pre-leasing. If we are unable to lease all or a substantial portion of our properties, or if the rental rates upon such leasing are significantly lower than expected rates, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures and our ability to make expected distributions to stockholders may be adversely affected.We have been and may continue to be affected negatively by tenant bankruptcies and leasing delays. At any time, a tenant may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. Similarly, a general decline in the economy may result in a decline in the demand for space at our industrial properties. As a result, our tenants may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, or declare bankruptcy. Any such event could result in the termination of that tenant’s lease and losses to us, and distributions to investors may decrease. We receive a substantial portion of our income as rents under mid-term and long-term leases. If tenants are unable to comply with the terms of their leases because of rising costs or falling sales, we may deem it advisable to modify lease terms to allow tenants to pay a lower rent or a smaller share of taxes, insurance and other operating costs. If a tenant becomes insolvent or bankrupt, we cannot be sure that we could recover the premises from the tenant promptly or from a trustee or debtor-in-possession in any bankruptcy proceeding relating to the tenant. We also cannot be sure that we would receive rent in the proceeding sufficient to cover our expenses with respect to the premises. If a tenant becomes bankrupt, the federal bankruptcy code will apply and, in some instances, may restrict the amount and recoverability of our claims against the tenant. A tenant’s default on its obligations to us could adversely affect our financial condition and the cash we have available for distribution.We face risks associated with our property development. We intend to continue to develop properties where market conditions warrant such investment. Once made, our investments may not produce results in accordance with our expectations. Risks associated with our current and future development and construction activities include:•the availability of favorable financing alternatives;•the risk that we may not be able to obtain land on which to develop or that due to the increased cost of land, our activities may not be as profitable;•construction costs exceeding original estimates due to rising interest rates and increases in the costs of materials and labor;•construction and lease-up delays resulting in increased debt service, fixed expenses and construction costs;•expenditure of funds and devotion of management's time to projects that we do not complete;•fluctuations of occupancy and rental rates at newly completed properties, which depend on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, resulting in lower than projected rental rates and a corresponding lower return on our investment; and•complications (including building moratoriums and anti-growth legislation) in obtaining necessary zoning, occupancy and other governmental permits.We face risks associated with property acquisitions. We acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties and intend to continue to do so. Our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks:•when we are able to locate a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price;•acquired properties may fail to perform as expected;•the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than our estimates;•acquired properties may be located in new markets where we face risks associated with an incomplete knowledge or understanding of the local market, a limited number of established business relationships in the area and a relative unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures;•we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and as a result, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected; and•we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, to the transferor with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a claim were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow.6Coverage under our existing insurance policies may be inadequate to cover losses. We generally maintain insurance policies related to our business, including casualty, general liability and other policies, covering our business operations, employees and assets as appropriate for the markets where our properties and business operations are located. However, we would be required to bear all losses that are not adequately covered by insurance. In addition, there may be certain losses that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so, including losses due to floods, wind, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, then we could lose the capital we invested in the properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged.We face risks due to lack of geographic and real estate sector diversity. Substantially all of our properties are located in the Sunbelt region of the United States with an emphasis in the states of Florida, Texas, Arizona, California and North Carolina. A downturn in general economic conditions and local real estate conditions in these geographic regions, as a result of oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties, local business climate, business layoffs and changing demographics, would have a particularly strong adverse effect on us. Our investments in real estate assets are concentrated in the industrial distribution sector. This concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities included other sectors of the real estate industry.We face risks due to the illiquidity of real estate which may limit our ability to vary our portfolio. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions will therefore be limited. In addition, because of our status as a REIT, the Internal Revenue Code limits our ability to sell our properties. If we must sell an investment, we cannot ensure that we will be able to dispose of the investment on terms favorable to the Company.We are subject to environmental laws and regulations. Current and previous real estate owners and operators may be required under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations to investigate and clean up hazardous substances released at the properties they own or operate. They may also be liable to the government or to third parties for substantial property or natural resource damage, investigation costs and cleanup costs. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs the government incurs in connection with the contamination. Contamination may adversely affect the owner’s ability to use, sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. We have no way of determining at this time the magnitude of any potential liability to which we may be subject arising out of environmental conditions or violations with respect to the properties we currently or formerly owned. Environmental laws today can impose liability on a previous owner or operator of a property that owned or operated the property at a time when hazardous or toxic substances were disposed of, released from, or present at the property. A conveyance of the property, therefore, may not relieve the owner or operator from liability. Although ESAs have been conducted at our properties to identify potential sources of contamination at the properties, such ESAs do not reveal all environmental liabilities or compliance concerns that could arise from the properties. Moreover, material environmental liabilities or compliance concerns may exist, of which we are currently unaware, that in the future may have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations.Compliance with new laws or regulations related to climate change, including compliance with “green” building codes, may require us to make improvements to our existing properties. Proposed legislation could also increase the costs of energy and utilities. The cost of the proposed legislation may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may be adversely affected by floods, hurricanes and other climate related events.Financing RisksWe face risks associated with the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments, including refinancing risk. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. In addition, certain of our mortgages will have significant outstanding principal balances on their maturity dates, commonly known as “balloon payments.” Therefore, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the existing debt.We face risks associated with our dependence on external sources of capital. In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our ordinary taxable income, and we are subject to tax on our income to the extent it is not distributed. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs from cash retained from operations. As a result, to fund capital needs, we rely on third-party sources of capital, which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms, if at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends upon a number of factors, including 7(i) general market conditions; (ii) the market’s perception of our growth potential; (iii) our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and (iv) the market price of our capital stock. Additional debt financing may substantially increase our debt-to-total market capitalization ratio. Additional equity financing may dilute the holdings of our current stockholders.Covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition. The terms of our various credit agreements and other indebtedness require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness even if we had satisfied our payment obligations. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition would be adversely affected.Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. Our credit ratings are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analysis of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. In the event our current credit ratings deteriorate, it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments.Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense. At December 31, 2013, we had $89.0 million of variable rate debt outstanding not protected by interest rate hedge contracts. We may incur additional variable rate debt in the future. If interest rates increase, then so would the interest expense on our unhedged variable rate debt, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we manage our exposure to interest rate risk with interest rate hedge contracts that effectively fix or cap a portion of our variable rate debt. In addition, we refinance fixed rate debt at times when we believe rates and terms are appropriate. Our efforts to manage these exposures may not be successful. Our use of interest rate hedge contracts to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a hedge contract may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Termination of interest rate hedge contracts typically involves costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs.A lack of any limitation on our debt could result in our becoming more highly leveraged. Our governing documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, our Board of Directors may incur additional debt and would do so, for example, if it were necessary to maintain our status as a REIT. We might become more highly leveraged as a result, and our financial condition and cash available for distribution to stockholders might be negatively affected and the risk of default on our indebtedness could increase.Other RisksThe market value of our common stock could decrease based on our performance and market perception and conditions. The market value of our common stock may be based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and current and future cash dividends and may be secondarily based upon the real estate market value of our underlying assets. The market price of our common stock is influenced by the dividend on our common stock relative to market interest rates. Rising interest rates may lead potential buyers of our common stock to expect a higher dividend rate, which would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased expense, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay dividends.The state of the economy or other adverse changes in general or local economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Turmoil in the global financial markets may have an adverse impact on the availability of credit to businesses generally and could lead to a further weakening of the U.S. and global economies. Currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations. However, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise financing, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Furthermore, deteriorating economic conditions including business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect our customers could continue to negatively impact commercial real estate fundamentals and result in lower occupancy, lower rental rates and declining values in our real estate portfolio and in the collateral securing any loan investments we may make. Additionally, an adverse economic situation could have an impact on our lenders or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. No assurances can be given that the effects of an adverse economic situation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.8We may fail to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be allowed to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and will be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, at regular corporate rates. In addition, we may be barred from qualification as a REIT for the four years following disqualification. The additional tax incurred at regular corporate rates would significantly reduce the cash flow available for distribution to stockholders and for debt service. Furthermore, we would no longer be required by the Internal Revenue Code to make any distributions to our stockholders as a condition of REIT qualification. Any distributions to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. Corporate distributees, however, may be eligible for the dividends received deduction on the distributions, subject to limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. To qualify as a REIT, we must comply with certain highly technical and complex requirements. We cannot be certain we have complied with these requirements because there are few judicial and administrative interpretations of these provisions. In addition, facts and circumstances that may be beyond our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We cannot assure you that new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not change the tax laws significantly with respect to our qualification as a REIT or with respect to the federal income tax consequences of qualification. We cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT.There is a risk of changes in the tax law applicable to real estate investment trusts. Since the Internal Revenue Service, the United States Treasury Department and Congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. Any such legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify our tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect taxation of us and/or our investors.We face possible adverse changes in tax laws. From time to time, changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted which may result in an increase in our tax liability. A shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in which we operate may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. If such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. These increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends.Our Charter contains provisions that may adversely affect the value of EastGroup stock. Our charter prohibits any holder from acquiring more than 9.8% (in value or in number, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding equity stock (defined as all of our classes of capital stock, except our excess stock (of which there is none outstanding)) unless our Board of Directors grants a waiver. The ownership limit may limit the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of common stock that might otherwise exist if an investor were attempting to assemble a block of shares in excess of 9.8% of the outstanding shares of equity stock or otherwise effect a change in control. Also, the request of the holders of a majority or more of our common stock is necessary for stockholders to call a special meeting. We also require advance notice by stockholders for the nomination of directors or the proposal of business to be considered at a meeting of stockholders.The Company faces risks in attracting and retaining key personnel. Many of our senior executives have strong industry reputations, which aid us in identifying acquisition and development opportunities and negotiating with tenants and sellers of properties. The loss of the services of these key personnel could affect our operations because of diminished relationships with existing and prospective tenants, property sellers and industry personnel. In addition, attracting new or replacement personnel may be difficult in a competitive market. We have severance and change in control agreements with certain of our officers that may deter changes in control of the Company. If, within a certain time period (as set in the officer’s agreement) following a change in control, we terminate the officer's employment other than for cause, or if the officer elects to terminate his or her employment with us for reasons specified in the agreement, we will make a severance payment equal to the officer's average annual compensation times an amount specified in the officer's agreement, together with the officer's base salary and vacation pay that have accrued but are unpaid through the date of termination. These agreements may deter a change in control because of the increased cost for a third party to acquire control of us.Our Board of Directors may authorize and issue securities without stockholder approval. Under our Charter, the Board has the power to classify and reclassify any of our unissued shares of capital stock into shares of capital stock with such preferences, rights, powers and restrictions as the Board of Directors may determine. The authorization and issuance of a new class of capital stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our stockholders' best interests.Maryland business statutes may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us. Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by limiting, among other things, the duties of the directors in unsolicited takeover situations. The duties of directors of Maryland corporations do not require them to (a) accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (b) authorize the corporation to redeem any rights under, 9or modify or render inapplicable, any stockholders rights plan, (c) make a determination under the Maryland Business Combination Act or the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, or (d) act or fail to act solely because of the effect of the act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. Moreover, under Maryland law the act of a director of a Maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a Maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under Maryland law.The Maryland Business Combination Act provides that unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including mergers, dispositions of 10 percent or more of its assets, certain issuances of shares of stock and other specified transactions, with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. An interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of the Maryland corporation.The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act provides that "control shares" of a corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" shall have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes eligible to cast on the matter. "Control Shares" means shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock previously acquired by the acquirer, would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of the voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority, or a majority or more of all voting power. A "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions.If voting rights of control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a stockholders' meeting, then subject to certain conditions and limitations, the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. If voting rights of such control shares are approved at a stockholders' meeting and the acquirer becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, all other stockholders may exercise appraisal rights.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.