Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have incurred significant losses and have a substantial accumulated deficit. If we cannot achieve profitability, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. We incurred net losses of approximately $4.0 million, $2.6 million and $7.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, and have incurred additional net losses since inception. At December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $63.6 million. Our ability to increase our revenues from the sale of our products will depend on our ability to successfully implement our growth strategy and the continued expansion of our markets. If our revenues do not grow or if our operating expenses continue to increase, we may not be able to become profitable and the market price of our common stock could decline. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carry-forwards may be limited. The Company has U.S. net operating loss carry-forwards (“NOLs”) that expire through 2033. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes an annual limitation on a corporation's ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an “ownership change.” In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50% over a three-year period. Ownership changes in our stock, some of which are outside of our control, could result in a limitation in our ability to use our NOLs to offset future taxable income, could cause U.S. Federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitation were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. We are highly dependent upon sales of our wireless asset management system to a few customers. The loss of any of these customers, or any material reduction in the amount of our products they purchase, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we generated revenues of $39.9 million with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and the Raymond Corporation, accounting for 18% and 10%, respectively, of our revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we generated revenues of $44.6 million with Avis Budget Group, Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounting for 18% and 15%, respectively, of our revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we generated revenues of $39.3 million with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Avis Budget Group, Inc., and Ford Motor Company, accounting for 17%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of our revenues. Some of these and other customers operate in markets that have suffered business downturns in the past few years or may so suffer in the future. The loss of these customers or any material reduction in the amount of our products that these customers purchase, or any material adverse change in the financial condition of such customers, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to replace such revenue from existing or new customers, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. If the market for our technology does not develop or become sustainable, expands more slowly than we expect or becomes saturated, our revenues will decline and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our success is highly dependent on the continued market acceptance of our wireless asset management system. The market for our wireless products and services is new and rapidly evolving. If the market for our products and services does not become sustainable, or becomes saturated with competing products or services, our revenues will decline and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological change, we may be unable to meet the needs of our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reduce our ability to grow our market share. Our market is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product announcements. Significant technological changes could render our existing technology obsolete. We are active in the research and development of new products and technologies and in enhancing our current products. However, research and development in our industry is complex and filled with uncertainty. For example, it is common for research and development projects to encounter delays due to unforeseen problems, resulting in low initial volume production, fewer product features than originally considered desirable and higher production costs than initially budgeted, any of which may result in lost market opportunities. In addition, these new products may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. If our efforts do not lead to the successful development, marketing and release of new products that respond to technological developments or changing customer needs and preferences, our revenues and market share could be materially and adversely affected. We may expend a significant amount of resources in unsuccessful research and development efforts. In addition, new products or enhancements by our competitors may cause customers to defer or forego purchases of our products. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reduce our ability to grow our market share. We may incur additional charges for excess and obsolete inventory, which could adversely affect our cost of sales and gross profit. While we strive to effectively manage our inventory, due to rapidly changing technology, and uneven customer demand, product cycles tend to be short and the value of our inventory may be adversely affected by changes in technology that affect our ability to sell the products in our inventory. If we do not effectively forecast and manage our inventory, we may need to write off inventory as excess or obsolete, which in turn, can adversely affect our cost of sales and gross profit. We have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, reductions in sales of older generation products as customers delay or defer purchases in anticipation of new product introductions. During 2013 we recorded a reserve for slow moving or obsolete inventory of $2,066,000. The reserves we have established for potential losses due to obsolete inventory may, however, prove to be inadequate and may give rise to additional charges for obsolete or excess inventory. 17 The long and variable sales cycles for our solutions may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We expect that many customers who utilize our solutions will do so as part of a large-scale deployment of these solutions across multiple or all divisions of their organizations. A customer’s decision to deploy our solutions throughout its organization will involve a significant commitment of its resources. Accordingly, initial implementations may precede any decision to deploy our solutions enterprise-wide. Throughout this sales cycle, we may spend considerable time and expense educating and providing information to prospective customers about the benefits of our solutions. The timing of the deployment of our solutions may vary widely and will depend on the specific deployment plan of each customer, the complexity of the customer’s organization and the difficulty of such deployment. Customers with substantial or complex organizations may deploy our solutions in large increments on a periodic basis. Accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular and unpredictable basis. Because of our limited operating history and the nature of our business, we cannot predict the timing or size of these sales and deployment cycles. Long sales cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to place large orders sporadically with short lead times, may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. These variations could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 18 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual measures to protect our intellectual property rights. Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any patents or proprietary rights owned by us. If such challenges are successful, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our employees, consultants and advisors enter into confidentiality agreements with us that prohibit the disclosure or use of our confidential information. We also have entered into confidentiality agreements to protect our confidential information delivered to third parties for research and other purposes. Despite these efforts, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively enforce these agreements or our confidential information will not be disclosed, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our confidential information or that we can meaningfully protect our confidential information. Disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology developed with advisors or collaborators. These and other possible disagreements could lead to delays in the collaborative research, development or commercialization of our systems, or could require or result in costly and time-consuming litigation that may not be decided in our favor. Any such event could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot assure you that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology or other intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Accordingly, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third party copying or use. If we are unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property, we may lose any technological advantages we have over competitors and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may become involved in an intellectual property dispute that could subject us to significant liability, divert the time and attention of our management and prevent us from selling our products, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States and internationally involving claims of alleged infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, defend ourselves against alleged infringement and determine the scope and validity of our intellectual property rights. Any such litigation, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and prevent us from selling our products. If a claim of patent infringement was decided against us, we could be required to, among other things: • pay substantial damages to the party making such claim; • stop selling, making, having made or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell, make or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign those products or services that incorporate such intellectual property. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of our products and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 19 The U.S. government’s right to use technology developed by us with government funds could limit our intellectual property rights. We have developed, and may in the future develop, improvements to our technology that are funded in part by the U.S. government. As a result, we do not have the right to prohibit the U.S. government from using certain technologies developed by us with such government funds or to prohibit third parties from using those technologies to provide products and services at the request of the U.S. government. Although such government rights do not affect our ownership of the technology developed using such funds, the U.S. government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under such contracts. We are free to commercially exploit those government-funded technologies and may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-government users thereof, but there is no assurance we can successfully do so. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture and deliver our products. Any quality or performance failures by our subcontractors or changes in their financial condition could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers in a timely manner, resulting in business interruptions, increased costs, claims for damages, reputation damage and reduced revenue. In order to meet the requirements under our customer contracts, we rely on subcontractors to manufacture and deliver our products to our customers. Any quality or performance failures by our subcontractors or changes in their financial or business condition could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers in a timely manner. If we are unable to fulfill orders from our customers in a timely manner, we could experience business interruptions, increased costs, damage to our reputation and loss of our customers. In addition, we may be subject to claims from our customers for failing to meet our contractual obligations. Although we have several sources for production, the inability to provide our products to our customers in a timely manner could result in the loss of customers and our revenues could be materially reduced. In addition, there is great competition for the most qualified and competent subcontractors. If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors, the quality of our services and products could decline. Furthermore, third-party manufacturers in the electronic component industry are consolidating. The consolidation of third-party manufacturers may give remaining manufacturers greater leverage to increase the prices that they charge, thereby increasing our manufacturing costs. If this were to occur and we are unable to pass the increased costs onto our customers, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for several significant components and raw materials used in our products. If we are unable to obtain these components or raw materials on a timely basis, we will be unable to meet our customers’ orders, which could reduce our revenues, subject us to claims for damages and adversely affect our relationships with our customers. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for the components and raw materials used in our products, including Flextronics International Ltd. Although there are many suppliers for most of our component parts and raw materials, we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for many of our significant components and raw materials. This reliance involves a number of significant risks, including: • unavailability of materials and interruptions in delivery of components and raw materials from our suppliers, which could result in manufacturing delays; and • fluctuations in the quality and price of components and raw materials. We currently do not have any long-term or exclusive purchase commitments with any of our suppliers. In addition, our suppliers may enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors, be acquired by our competitors, or stop selling their products or components to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may not be able to develop alternative sources for the components and raw materials. Even if alternate suppliers are available to us, identifying them is often difficult and time consuming. If we are unable to obtain an ample supply of product or raw materials from our existing suppliers or alternative sources of supply, we may be unable to satisfy our customers’ orders, which could reduce our revenues, subject us to claims for damages and adversely affect our relationships with our customers. We rely significantly on channel partners to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to develop and manage our channel partners would harm our business. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technology and product offerings requires significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel, including investment in systems and training. Those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage as we grow our organization. We have no minimum purchase commitments from any of our channel partners, and our contracts with these channel partners do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may provide incentives to existing and potential channel partners to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. Our channel partners may choose not to offer our products exclusively or at all. Establishing relationships with channel partners who have a history of selling our competitors’ products may also prove to be difficult. Our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with channel partners would harm our business and operating results. Our Chief Executive Officer resigned, we have appointed an Interim Chief Executive Officer, and we are searching for a permanent replacement. The uncertainty of this transition could adversely affect customer, vendor, and employee relationships and result in adverse effects on our business and operating results. Effective as of March 2, 2014, Jeffrey M. Jagid resigned from his position as our Chief Executive Officer and as Chairman of our Board of Directors. Effective as of March 21, 2014, Mr. Jagid resigned from our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors appointed Kenneth S. Ehrman, our President, to also serve as our Interim Chief Executive Officer, pending appointment of a permanent successor. The resignation of our Chief Executive Officer and/or the presence of an Interim Chief Executive Officer may destabilize our relationships with customers, vendors, and employees, resulting in loss of business, loss of vendor relationships, and the loss of key employees or declines in the productivity of existing employees. The search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer may take many months or more, further exacerbating these factors. Any or all of these risks could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we lose our executive officers, or are unable to recruit additional personnel, our ability to manage our business could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on the continued employment and performance of our executive officers. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. Like other companies in our industry, we face intense competition for qualified personnel. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have to hire qualified personnel. Accordingly, if we are not successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel in the future, our ability to manage our business could be materially and adversely affected. 20 The industry in which we operate is highly competitive, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and influenced by the following: • advances in technology; • new product introductions; • evolving industry standards; • product improvements; • rapidly changing customer needs; • intellectual property invention and protection; • marketing and distribution capabilities; • ability to attract and retain highly skilled professionals; • competition from highly capitalized companies; • entrance of new competitors; • ability of customers to invest in information technology; and • price competition. The products marketed by us and our competitors are becoming more complex. As the technological and functional capabilities of future products increase, these products may begin to compete with products being offered by traditional computer, network and communications industry participants that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do. Although we are not aware of any current competitors that provide the precise capabilities of our systems, we are aware of competitors that offer similar approaches to address the customer needs that our products address. Those companies include both emerging companies with limited operating histories, such as TotalTrax, Inc., and SpeedShield, a unit of Automotion Control Systems Pty. Ltd., and companies with longer operating histories, greater name recognition and/or significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than ours, such as Crown Equipment Corp. In the rental fleet management market, our solutions for traditional airport-based rental fleet management compete primarily against existing handheld devices, which are used widely by vehicle rental companies. Currently, the principal handheld device providers we compete against include Motorola and Intermec. Our solutions for remote, decentralized rental fleet management compete primarily with companies in the car sharing market such as Hertz, Enterprise, Zipcar and City Car Share. Large system integrators and several of the national cellular wireless providers have started to offer solutions, which package third party hardware, firmware and software, that compete with our solutions. In the markets for both types of rental fleet solutions, our competitive position is differentiated by our patented car rental system. In the remote transportation asset management market, we compete against several established competitors, including Omnitracs, LLC, SkyBitz, Inc., and Par Technology Corporation, StarTrack Systems, LLC, and Ameriscan which were acquired by Orbcomm Inc. and Fleet Locate. We attempt to differentiate our solutions in this segment by offering a choice of communication mode (satellite or cellular), patented battery management technology, sensor options (door, cargo, tractor ID), and installation configurations (dry van trailers, refrigerated trailers, domestic containers, flatbed trailers, covered hopper and tanker railcars, and chassis). If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances, including the development of superior products by our competitors, or if we are unable to otherwise compete successfully against our competitors, there could be a material adverse effect on our competitive position, revenues and prospects for growth. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 21 The federal government or independent standards organizations may implement significant regulations or standards that could adversely affect our ability to produce or market our products. Our products transmit radio frequency waves, the transmission of which is governed by the rules and regulations of the FCC, as well as other federal and state agencies. Our ability to design, develop and sell our products will continue to be subject to these rules and regulations for the foreseeable future. In addition, our products and services may become subject to independent industry standards. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or industry standards, or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies, could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected products to become impractical or otherwise adversely affect our ability to produce or market our products. The adoption of new industry standards applicable to our products may require us to engage in rapid product development efforts that would cause us to incur higher expenses than we anticipated. In some circumstances, we may not be able to comply with such standards, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues through the sale of our products. Because our products are complex, they may have undetected errors or failures when they are introduced, which could seriously harm our business, and our product liability insurance may not adequately protect us. Technical products like ours often contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced. Despite our efforts to eliminate these flaws, there still may be errors or failures in our products, even after the commencement of commercial shipments. Because our products are used in business-critical applications, we could be subject to product liability claims if our systems fail to perform as intended. Even unsuccessful claims against us could result in costly litigation and the diversion of management’s time and resources and could damage our reputation and impair the marketability of our systems. Although we maintain insurance, there are no assurances that: • our insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities if our products cause harm or fail to perform as promised; or • adequate product liability insurance will continue to be available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If our insurance is insufficient to pay any product liability claims, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any such claims could permanently injure our reputation and customer relationships. We may need to obtain additional capital to fund our operations that could have negative consequences on our business. We may require additional capital in the future to develop and commercialize additional products and technologies or take advantage of other opportunities that may arise, including potential acquisitions. We may seek to raise the necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. On May 2, 2013, the SEC declared effective a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 that allows us to raise up to an aggregate of $60.0 million from the sale of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, subscription rights, warrants and units or any combination of the foregoing. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution. If additional capital is raised through debt, such debt may subject us to significant restrictive covenants that could affect our ability to operate our business. In addition, we may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or systems, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us in order to raise additional funds through strategic alliance, joint venture and licensing arrangements. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price could be materially and adversely affected. 22 If we do not adequately anticipate and respond to the risks inherent in growing our business internationally, our operating results and the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. To date, we have not generated significant revenues outside of North America. As part of our growth strategy, we are seeking ways to expand our operations outside of North America by establishing offices in the United Kingdom and Germany and developing relationships with global distributors to market and sell our systems internationally. For example, as of February 28, 2014, we had five employees in Germany and five in the United Kingdom who market and sell our systems in Europe. There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: • unexpected legal or regulatory changes; • unfavorable political or economic factors; • less developed infrastructure; • difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel, and managing international operations; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • lack of sufficient protection for intellectual property rights; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Until fairly recently, we had no operations outside of North America, and we have limited experience establishing or operating businesses outside of North America. If we do not adequately anticipate and respond to the risks inherent in international operations, our operating results and the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, although we intend to expand our business outside of North America, there are risks associated with conducting an international operation, including the risks listed above, and such expansion may not be successful or have a positive effect on, and could materially and adversely affect, our financial condition and results of operations. We provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we have acquired or might acquire in the future. We may, from time to time, continue to consider investments in or acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur debt; • assume liabilities; • incur expenses related to the impairment of goodwill; or • incur large and immediate write-offs. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, and if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make these acquisitions on acceptable terms, or at all. 23 Our operation of any acquired business will also involve numerous risks, including: • problems integrating the acquired operations, personnel, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of management’s time and attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of acquired companies. In addition, if we make changes to our business strategy or if external conditions adversely affect our business operations, we may be required to record an impairment charge for goodwill or intangibles, which would lead to decreased assets and reduced net operating performance. The concentration of common stock ownership among our executive officers and directors could limit the ability of other stockholders of the Company to influence the outcome of corporate transactions or other matters submitted for stockholder approval. As of March 20, 2014, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned, in the aggregate, 12% of our outstanding common stock, not including 1,642,000 shares of common stock that our executive officers and directors may acquire upon the exercise of outstanding options or if they otherwise acquire additional shares of common stock in the future. As a result, our officers and directors may have the ability to influence the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including the following actions: • the election of directors; • adoption of stock option or other equity incentive compensation plans; • the amendment of our organizational documents; and • the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. 24 The unpredictability of our quarterly operating results could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The main factors that may affect us include the following: • variations in the sales of our products to our significant customers; • variations in the mix of products and services provided by us; • the timing and completion of initial programs and larger or enterprise-wide purchases of our products by our customers; • the length and variability of the sales cycle for our products; • the timing and size of sales; • changes in market and economic conditions, including fluctuations in demand for our products; and • announcements of new products by our competitors. As a result of these and other factors, revenues for any quarter are subject to significant variation that could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. Future sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock acquired upon the exercise of outstanding options, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of common stock in the market, or sales of our common stock acquired upon the exercise of outstanding options, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We have 12,204,171 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 20, 2014, of which 10,712,576 shares are freely transferable without restriction, and 1,491,595 shares are held by our officers and directors and, as such, are subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, options to purchase 2,790,000 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding, of which 1,964,000 were vested. The remaining options will vest ratably over a five-year period measured from the date of grant. The weighted-average exercise price of the vested stock options is $8.12. We also may issue additional shares of stock in connection with our business, including in connection with acquisitions, and may grant additional stock options to our employees, officers, directors and consultants under our stock option plans or warrants to third parties. If a significant portion of these shares of common stock were sold in the public market, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. The issuance of equity or debt securities under our shelf registration statement could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-3 that was declared effective by the SEC on May 2, 2013. This registration statement registered up to an aggregate offering price of $60 million in debt and equity securities, including shares of our common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, subscription rights, warrants and units, or any combination of the foregoing. If we issue all of the securities included in the shelf registration statement, there could be a substantial dilutive effect on our common stock and an adverse effect on the price of our common stock Interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our income and results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash, cash equivalents and investments of $14.1 million. In a declining interest rate environment, reinvestment typically occurs at less favorable market rates, negatively impacting future investment income. Accordingly, interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our income and results of operations. 25 We provide financing to our customers for the purchase of our products, which may increase our credit risks in the event of a deterioration in a customer’s financial condition or in global credit conditions. We sell our products to a wide range of customers in the commercial and governmental sectors. We provide financing to customers for a portion of such sales. Although these customers are extended credit terms which are approved by us internally, our business could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a deterioration of the financial condition of one or more of our customers that results in such customers’ inability to repay us. This risk may increase during a general economic downturn affecting a large number of our customers or a widespread deterioration in global credit conditions, and in the event our customers do not adequately manage their businesses or properly disclose their financial condition. Our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected by the current downturn in the financial and credit markets. We maintain our cash and cash equivalents with major financial institutions; however, our cash and cash equivalent balances with these institutions exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While we monitor on a systematic basis the cash and cash equivalent balances in our operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit our cash and cash equivalents fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. To date, we have experienced no loss of principal or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurance that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be affected if the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail or the financial and credit markets continue to deteriorate. Goodwill impairment or intangible impairment charges may affect our results of operations in the future. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and more often if events occur or circumstances change that would likely reduce the fair value of a reporting unit to an amount below its carrying value. We also test for other possible acquisition intangible impairments if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of such intangible may not be recoverable. Any resulting impairment loss would be a non-cash charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in any future period in which we record a charge. Long-lived assets with determinable useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. For the year ended December 31, 2013 the Company recorded a $74,000 impairment charge to its PowerKey tradename and trademark intangible assets which is included in amortization expense. In December 2013, as part of a strategic review, the Company evaluated its product lines for 2014. With the expected release during 2014 of the Company’s next generation vehicle management systems platform, the VAC4, the Company made the strategic decision to discontinue offering the Powerkey product line for sale to new customers in 2014. As result, the Company wrote-off the PowerKey tradename and trademark intangible assets. There were no impairments to the remaining trademark and tradename intangible assets. Declines in general economic conditions could result in decreased demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations are affected by the levels of business activities of our customers, which can be affected by economic conditions in the United States and globally. During periods of economic downturns, our customers may decrease their demand for wireless technology solutions, as well as the maintenance, support and consulting services we provide. This slowdown may have an adverse effect on the wireless solutions industry in general and on demand for our products and services, but the magnitude of that impact is uncertain. Our future growth is dependent, in part, upon the demand for our products and services. Prolonged weakness in the economy may cause business enterprises to delay or cancel wireless solutions projects, reduce their overall wireless solutions budgets and/or reduce or cancel orders for our services. This, in turn, may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in purchase decisions, and payment and collection issues, and may also result in price pressures, causing us to realize lower revenues and operating margins. Additionally, if our customers cancel or delay their wireless solutions initiatives, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 26 Provisions of Delaware law or our charter documents could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for our stockholders to change the Company’s management. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any of our interested stockholders for three years after such stockholder became an interested stockholder unless certain specified conditions are met. As a result, these provisions and Delaware law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. This is because these provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management or members of our Board of Directors. These provisions, among other things: • permit our Board of Directors to issue, without further action by our stockholders, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, with any rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate, including the right to approve an acquisition or other change in control; • provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by (i) our Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, either upon motion of a director or upon written request by the holders of at least 50% of the voting power of all the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors, voting as a single class, or (ii) our Chairman of the Board or our President; and • require the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the voting power of all the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors, voting as a single class, to amend or repeal the provisions outlined above dealing with meetings of stockholders. 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 