Risk Factors” below. Heightened Prudential Requirements for Large Bank Holding Companies Dodd-Frank imposes heightened prudential requirements on bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, including the Company, and requires the Federal Reserve to establish prudential standards for such large bank holding companies that are more stringent than those applicable to other bank holding companies, including standards for risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits, liquidity, risk management requirements, resolution plans (referred to as “living wills”), stress tests, early remediation, credit exposure reporting and concentration. The Federal Reserve has discretionary authority to establish additional prudential standards on its own, or at the recommendation of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits and otherwise as it deems appropriate. Because the Federal Reserve may, on its own volition or in response to a recommendation by the FSOC, tailor the application of these enhanced prudential standards to specific companies, including the Company, the ultimate impact of these enhanced standards on the Company is not certain and may change in the future depending on the application of these standards to us and other participants in the financial services industry. The Federal Reserve has issued several proposed and final rules under its authority to establish such enhanced prudential standards for large bank holding companies, including the stress testing and capital adequacy rules discussed below. In addition, in February 2014, the Federal Reserve approved a final rule implementing several heightened prudential requirements, including the following: • Enhanced Liquidity Management Standards: The Federal Reserve’s rule focuses on prudential steps to manage liquidity risk and comprehensively details liquidity risk management responsibilities for boards of directors and senior management. It requires, among other things, the maintenance of a liquidity buffer, consisting of assets meeting certain standards, that is sufficient to meet projected net cash outflows and projected loss or impairment of existing funding sources for 30 days over a range of liquidity stress scenarios. • Enhanced Risk Management Requirements: Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, and publicly traded bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in consolidated assets, are required to establish a dedicated risk committee reporting directly to the company’s board of directors, comprised of members of the bank holding company’s board of directors, which would review and approve the enterprise-wide risk management policies of the company. The risk committee is required to have an appropriate number of independent directors, at least one risk management expert and oversight of the operation of an enterprise-wide risk management framework commensurate with the company’s capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, size and other appropriate risk-related 36 Table of Contents factors, and is subject to certain governance provisions set forth in the rule. Such bank holding companies, including the Company, are also required to appoint a Chief Risk Officer. While the final rule adopted by the Federal Reserve largely implements the December 2011 proposals regarding liquidity and risk management, the final rule does not address the Federal Reserve’s proposals regarding single counterparty credit exposure or early remediation requirements. Under the terms of this final rule, we are required to fully comply with liquidity management and risk management requirements as of January 1, 2015. On September 2, 2014, the OCC issued final guidelines setting forth governance and risk management requirements for insured national banks, insured federal savings associations, and insured federal branches of foreign banks with $50 billion or more in average total consolidated assets (the OCC may also apply the guidelines to a bank with fewer than $50 billion in assets if it determines that the bank’s operations are highly complex or otherwise present a heightened risk). The OCC has previously indicated that the guidelines generally would apply to a bank (including a federal savings association such as AEBFSB) with average total consolidated assets of less than $50 billion if the bank and its sister banks under a common parent holding company, together, have combined average total consolidated assets greater than $50 billion, as is the case with respect to AEBFSB. The guidelines provide that a covered institution should establish and adhere to a written risk governance framework, generally independent from that of its parent, to manage and control its risk-taking activities. The guidelines also provide minimum standards for a covered institution’s board of directors, including with respect to board composition, talent management and oversight of the institution’s risk governance framework. Covered institutions must come into compliance within certain specified time periods ranging from November 10, 2014 to May 10, 2016. Stress Testing As part of its implementation of the enhanced prudential requirements of Dodd-Frank, the Federal Reserve issued rules relating to supervisory and company-run analyses of certain large bank holding companies to evaluate whether the companies have sufficient capital on a total consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses and support operations under adverse economic conditions (so-called “stress tests”). The Federal Reserve applies its stress tests rules and its capital planning requirements, discussed in “Capital Planning” below, on a consolidated basis. • Supervisory Stress Testing: The Federal Reserve must conduct annual stress tests of bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, such as the Company. Under this rule, the stress tests use a minimum of three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve (baseline, adverse and severely adverse), and are based on methodologies and data that the Federal Reserve makes available to companies each year. A summary of results of individual stress tests will be made public by the Federal Reserve on a company-specific basis. • Company Stress Testing: Bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, such as the Company, are also required to conduct a similar stress test on a semiannual basis. A summary of the results of each of these tests must be publicly disclosed. The FDIC and the OCC have also issued rules consistent with the Federal Reserve’s regulations governing company-conducted stress testing to implement annual company stress testing requirements applicable to certain banking organizations, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB will be required to report the results of their stress tests in 2015. Capital Planning Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including the Company, are required to develop and maintain a capital plan, and to submit the capital plan to the Federal Reserve for review under its Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) process. The capital plan must cover a 37 Table of Contents “planning horizon” of at least nine quarters (beginning with the quarter preceding the submission of the plan) and include the following components: • An assessment of the bank holding company’s expected uses and sources of capital over the planning horizon that accounts for the bank holding company’s size, complexity, risk profile and scope of operations, and under expected and stressful conditions according to scenarios developed by the bank holding company and the Federal Reserve; • A detailed description of the bank holding company’s process for assessing capital adequacy, including how it will, under expected and stressful conditions, maintain capital commensurate with its risks, above the minimum regulatory ratios, and to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary depository institutions, and sufficient to continue operations by maintaining steady access to funding, meeting obligations to creditors and other counterparties and continuing to serve as a credit intermediary; • The bank holding company’s capital policy; and • A discussion of any expected changes to the bank holding company’s business. For the purpose of CCAR, each bank holding company is required to submit the results of its stress tests based on three supervisory scenarios, at least one stress scenario developed by the bank holding company and a baseline scenario. The severely adverse stress scenario developed by the Federal Reserve for the 2015 process is designed to represent an outcome that, in the opinion of the Federal Reserve, is unlikely, but could occur if the U.S. economy were to experience a deep recession while at the same time economic activity in other major economies were also to contract significantly. A bank holding company’s board of directors, or a designated committee thereof, is required, at least annually, to review the “robustness” of the bank holding company’s process for assessing capital adequacy, ensure that any deficiencies are remedied and approve the capital plan. In its review of the capital plan, the Federal Reserve will consider the plan’s comprehensiveness, the reasonableness of its assumptions and analysis, and the bank holding company’s methodologies for reviewing the robustness of the capital adequacy process and ability to maintain capital above minimum regulatory ratios under expected and stressful conditions throughout the planning horizon. In addition, the Federal Reserve will engage in a qualitative review of a bank holding company’s capital planning processes and procedures. Based on its overall review and the regulatory capital requirements described below, the Federal Reserve will either object or not object to the capital plan. The Federal Reserve has broad authority to object to capital plans, and to require bank holding companies to revise and resubmit their capital plans. Bank holding companies are also subject to an ongoing requirement to revise and resubmit their capital plans upon the occurrence of certain events specified by rule, or when required by the Federal Reserve. In addition to other limitations, our ability to make any capital distributions (including dividends and share repurchases) is contingent on the Federal Reserve’s non-objection to our capital plan under both quantitative and qualitative tests. Should the Federal Reserve object to a capital plan, a bank holding company may not make any capital distribution other than those capital distributions that the Federal Reserve has indicated non-objection to in writing. On January 5, 2015, we submitted our capital plan to the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it intends to publish the decisions for all the bank holding companies participating in CCAR 2015, including the reasons for any objection to capital plans on March 11, 2015. In addition, the Federal Reserve will separately publish the results of its supervisory stress test under both the supervisory severely adverse and adverse scenarios. The information to be released will include, among other things, the Federal Reserve’s projection of company-specific information, including post-stress capital ratios and the minimum value of these ratios over the planning horizon. The Federal Reserve has noted that bank holding companies will have limited ability to adjust downward planned capital actions in light of stress test results. Should any adjustment occur, the Federal Reserve intends to publicly disclose the results of stress tests using both the original and adjusted 2015 capital plans. On October 17, 2014, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule amending its capital planning and stress testing regulations. Among 38 Table of Contents other things, commencing April 1, 2015, the amended regulations will limit, in general, our ability to make quarterly capital distributions — that is, dividends and share repurchases — to the extent that our actual cumulative quarterly capital issuances of instruments that qualify as regulatory capital are less than we had indicated in our submitted capital plan (as to which we receive a non-objection from the Federal Reserve). The final rule also adjusted the schedule for annual stress testing and capital planning cycle for covered bank holding companies. Beginning in 2016, participating firms will be required to submit their capital plans and stress testing results to the Federal Reserve on or before April 5 of each year, instead of on or before January 5 of each year under the prior rules. Dividends The Company and TRS, as well as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, are limited by banking statutes, regulations and supervisory policy in their ability to pay dividends. In general, federal and applicable state banking laws prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval, insured depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, from making dividend distributions if such distributions are not paid out of available recent earnings or would cause the institution to fail to meet capital adequacy standards. As described below under “Prompt Corrective Action,” the FDIA also generally prohibits an FDIC-insured depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of dividends) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. In addition to specific limitations on the dividends that subsidiary banks can pay to their holding companies, federal banking regulators could prohibit a dividend that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. Dividend payments by the Company and TRS to shareholders are subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. It is Federal Reserve policy that bank holding companies generally should pay dividends on common stock only out of net income available to common shareholders generated over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s current and expected future capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Moreover, bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that place undue pressure on the capital of depository institution subsidiaries or that may undermine the bank holding company’s ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve could prohibit a dividend by the Company or TRS that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. Because the Company is a bank holding company with more than $50 billion in consolidated assets, its payment of dividends is subject to heightened regulatory requirements. The Company is required to include projected dividend payments in the capital plan required to be submitted to the Federal Reserve, discussed above under “Capital Planning,” and the restrictions imposed as part of the capital planning process will likely be the principal limitation on our ability to make capital distributions (including dividends and share repurchases). In addition, the Company generally is required to obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before it can make capital distributions, including dividend payments, under any of the following circumstances (regardless of whether the distribution is part of a capital plan to which the Federal Reserve has not objected): • The Company will not meet a minimum regulatory capital ratio or a Tier 1 common equity ratio of at least 5 percent after giving effect to the capital distribution; • The Federal Reserve has notified the Company that it has determined that either (i) the capital distribution will result in a material adverse change to the Company’s capital or liquidity structure, or (ii) the Company’s earnings are materially underperforming projections; • The dollar amount of the capital distribution will exceed the projected distribution described in the Company’s approved capital plan; or • The capital distribution will occur after the occurrence of an event requiring the resubmission (other than pursuant to an objection) of the Company’s capital plan and before the Federal Reserve has acted on the resubmitted plan. 39 Table of Contents Living Wills In December 2014, we filed an updated plan for the rapid and orderly resolution of the Company under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material distress or failure. Under rules adopted by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC pursuant to Dodd-Frank, we are required to update this plan annually and may be required to update it upon the occurrence of material changes in our business, structure or operations. This resolution planning requirement may, as a practical matter, present additional constraints on our structure, operations and business strategy, and on transactions and business arrangements between our bank and non-bank subsidiaries, because we must consider the impact of these matters on our ability to prepare and submit a resolution plan that demonstrates that we may be resolved under the Bankruptcy Code in a rapid and orderly manner. If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC determine that our plan is not credible and we fail to cure the deficiencies, we may be subject to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations, or ultimately be required to divest certain assets or operations to facilitate an orderly resolution. Acquisitions and Investments As a bank holding company with insured depository institution subsidiaries, we are subject to banking laws and regulations that limit our investments and acquisitions. In addition, acquisitions and investments may be subject to the prior review and approval of our regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC. The banking agencies have broad discretion in evaluating proposed acquisitions and investments. In deciding whether to approve an acquisition, federal banking regulators may consider, among other factors, effects of the acquisition on competition, financial and managerial resources, and financial stability; future prospects, including current and projected capital ratios and levels; the competence and expertise of management and our record of compliance with laws and regulations; public benefits; the convenience and needs of the community and our depository institution subsidiaries’ record of compliance with the CRA; risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system; and our effectiveness in combating money laundering. Among other things, the BHC Act requires a bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control more than 5 percent of any class of the voting securities of the institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association (the Bank Merger Act requires regulatory approval before a bank subsidiary may make such an acquisition); or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. The Federal Reserve must approve certain additional capital contributions to an existing non-U.S. investment and certain direct and indirect acquisitions by the Company of an interest in a non-U.S. company, including in a foreign bank. Dodd-Frank requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion to provide the Federal Reserve with written notice (which is largely tantamount to an approval process) prior to acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company (other than an insured depository institution) that is engaged in financial activities described in section 4(k) of the BHC Act and that has total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more, subject to certain exceptions. In a separate provision, Dodd-Frank also requires financial holding companies to obtain Federal Reserve approval prior to acquiring any non-bank company with total consolidated assets in excess of $10 billion. Applicable federal and state laws also limit the ability of persons to invest in or acquire control of the Company without providing notice to or obtaining the approval of one or more of our regulators. The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person, entity, or group of persons or entities acting in concert, from directly or indirectly acquiring “control” of a bank holding company such as the Company, unless the Federal Reserve has been given prior notice and has not objected to the transaction. Under Federal Reserve regulations, the acquisition of 10 percent or more of a class of voting stock of the Company would generally create a rebuttable presumption of acquisition of control of the Company and require prior notice to and non-objection by the Federal Reserve. Additionally, under the BHC Act, any person or company is required to obtain the approval of 40 Table of Contents the Federal Reserve before acquiring control of the Company, which, among other things, includes the acquisition of ownership of or control over 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the Company or the power to exercise a “controlling influence” over the Company. In the case of an acquirer that is a bank or bank holding company, the BHC Act requires approval of the Federal Reserve for the acquisition of ownership or control of any voting securities of the Company, if the acquisition results in the bank or bank holding company controlling more than 5 percent of the outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of the Company. Source of Strength Bank holding companies are required by statute to act as a source of strength to all of their insured depository institution subsidiaries. Therefore, the Company is required to act as a source of strength to Centurion Bank and AEBFSB and may be required to commit capital and financial resources to support both institutions. Such support may be required at times when, absent this requirement, the Company otherwise might determine not to provide it. Capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal banking regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. Capital Adequacy and Liquidity The Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are required to comply with the applicable capital adequacy rules established by federal banking regulators. These rules are intended to ensure that bank holding companies and banks (collectively, “banking organizations”) have adequate capital given the level of assets and off-balance sheet obligations, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Since the late 1980s, the federal banking regulators’ capital adequacy rules have been based on accords agreed to by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). These frameworks include general risk-based capital rules applicable to all banking organizations based on the 1988 Capital Accord, known as Basel I, and risk-based capital rules applicable to banking organizations having $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in foreign exposures, known as advanced approaches institutions, based on the advanced internal ratings-based approach for credit risk and the advanced measurement approach for operational risk in the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Basel Committee in June 2006, known as Basel II. In July 2013, federal banking regulators adopted rules (the “New Capital Rules”) substantially revising the general risk-based capital rules previously applicable to banking organizations to make them more risk sensitive and implementing the final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, known as Basel III, released by the Basel Committee in December 2010. The New Capital Rules are currently being phased-in and, subject to transition provisions for certain adjustments to the components of capital, took effect for all banking organizations as of January 1, 2015. As an advanced approaches institution, the Company and, consequently, TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, were required to comply with portions of the New Capital Rules beginning in 2014, specifically the revised capital definitions and minimum capital ratio requirements, while still using Basel I risk-weighted assets. For additional information regarding our capital ratios, see “Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity” on pages 39-42 of our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. New Capital Rules. Under the New Capital Rules, new minimum capital and buffer requirements were established and will be fully phased-in by 2019. Specifically, banking organizations are required to maintain minimum ratios for Common Equity Tier 1 (“CET1”), Tier 1 and Total capital to risk-weighted assets. In 41 Table of Contents addition, all banking organizations remain subject to a minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to total adjusted quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes). Advanced approaches institutions will also become subject to a supplementary leverage ratio. For purposes of calculating these ratios, a banking organization’s capital is classified into the following categories: • Common Equity Tier 1 Capital. CET1 includes common equity, retained earnings and a limited amount of minority interests in CET1 of consolidated subsidiaries. • Additional Tier 1 Capital. Additional Tier 1 capital includes non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and a limited amount of minority interests in Additional Tier 1 capital instruments of consolidated subsidiaries, in each case subject to specific requirements of the New Capital Rules. • Tier 2 Capital. Tier 2 capital includes certain subordinated debt, preferred stock that is cumulative or has a mandatory redemption date, a limited amount of minority interests in Tier 2 capital of consolidated subsidiaries and a portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses, in each case subject to specific requirements of the New Capital Rules. The New Capital Rules also require the deduction of certain assets from CET1 (deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income, mortgage servicing rights, investments in financial firms and pension assets, among others, within prescribed limitations) and the inclusion of accumulated OCI in capital. Goodwill and most intangible assets will also be subject to a full deduction from CET1. A banking organization’s assets and some of its specified off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are assigned to various risk categories for purposes of calculating the required risk-based ratios. The New Capital Rules amend and replace the prior risk-weighting categories used to calculate risk-weighted assets in the denominator of capital ratios with a broader array of risk weighting categories that are intended to be more risk sensitive based on the Basel III standardized approach. The current risk-weights for the standardized approach range from 0 percent to 1,250 percent compared with the risk-weights of 0 percent to 100 percent, in general, in the regulators’ prior general risk-based capital guidelines based on Basel I. Higher risk-weights apply to a variety of exposures, including certain securitization exposures, equity exposures, claims on securities firms and exposures to counterparties on OTC derivatives. In addition, advanced approaches banking organizations calculate risk-based capital ratios under both the generally applicable standardized approach and the advanced approaches rule, and then use the lower of each capital ratio to determine whether it meets its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The portions of the New Capital Rules implementing the standardized approach became effective January 1, 2015. During 2014, we began reporting our capital adequacy ratios on a parallel basis to federal banking regulators using both risk-weighted assets calculated under the Basel I-based capital framework, as adjusted for certain items, and the requirements for an advanced approaches institution. The parallel period will continue until we receive regulatory approval to exit parallel reporting, at which point we will begin publicly reporting capital ratios using risk-weighted assets calculated under the higher of the advanced approaches and the standardized approach in the New Capital Rules. During 2014, while the New Capital Rules were being phased-in, the Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB each were required to maintain CET1, Tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 plus additional Tier 1 capital) and Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) ratios of at least 4.0 percent, 5.5 percent and 8.0 percent, respectively. As of January 1, 2015, the Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB must each maintain CET1, Tier 1 capital and Total capital ratios of at least 4.5 percent, 6.0 percent and 8.0 percent, respectively, without giving effect to the capital conservation buffer or countercyclical capital buffer discussed below. The New Capital Rules also implement a 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer composed entirely of CET1, on top of these minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. As a result, the minimum ratios are effectively 7.0 percent, 8.5 percent and 10.5 percent for the CET1, Tier 1 capital and Total capital ratios, respectively, on a fully phased-in basis. Implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625 42 Table of Contents percent level and will increase in equal increments at the beginning of each year until it is fully implemented on January 1, 2019. Additionally, the required minimum CET1, Tier 1 capital and Total capital ratios for advanced approaches institutions such as the Company may be further increased by a countercyclical capital buffer composed entirely of CET1 up to 2.5 percent, which may be assessed when federal banking regulators determine that such a buffer is necessary to protect the banking system from disorderly downturns associated with excessively expansionary periods. As a result, when fully phased-in, the countercyclical capital buffer and capital conservation buffer could potentially result in effective minimum CET1, Tier 1 capital and Total capital ratios of 9.5 percent, 11.0 percent and 13.0 percent, respectively. Banking institutions whose ratio of CET1, Tier 1 Capital or Total capital to risk-weighted assets is above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on discretionary distributions such as dividends, repurchases and redemptions of capital securities, and executive compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. As a supervisory matter, federal banking regulators expect most bank holding companies, and in particular larger bank holding companies such as the Company, to maintain regulatory capital ratios that, at a minimum, qualify a bank holding company and its depository institution subsidiaries as “well capitalized.” The rules also provide that bank holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. Following the recent financial crisis, federal banking regulators have encouraged larger bank holding companies to maintain capital ratios appreciably above the “well capitalized” standard. Moreover, the Federal Reserve is focusing more on the regulatory requirement that common equity be the “predominant” element of Tier 1 capital. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it will consider a “tangible Tier 1 capital leverage ratio” (deducting all intangibles) and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. In October 2012, the Basel Committee issued final rules imposing a CET1 surcharge on certain banks that may have an important impact on their domestic economies (so-called “domestic systemically important banks”, or “D-SIBs”). The framework establishes a minimum set of principles against which the federal banking regulators would evaluate whether a bank is a D-SIB and determine the amount of capital that a D-SIB is required to hold and/or whether the D-SIB should be subject to other policy tools. However, the New Capital Rules do not indicate whether any, or to what extent, banking organizations, such as the Company, that have not been designated as global systemically important banks (or “G-SIBs”) may be subject to a D-SIB surcharge. In line with the Basel Committee’s stated objective that the D-SIB framework complement the existing G-SIB framework, the D-SIB surcharge will be implemented together with the G-SIB surcharge beginning in January 2016. While U.S. rules have not addressed the adoption of the surcharge on D-SIBs (or the specific methodology U.S. federal banking regulators would use to designate institutions as D-SIBs), federal banking regulators have previously noted that they are considering a capital surcharge for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, or some subset of such institutions, consistent with the Basel Committee’s surcharge proposals. Leverage Requirements. Banking organizations are also required to comply with minimum leverage ratio requirements. The leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization’s Tier 1 capital to its total adjusted quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes). All banking organizations are required to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 4.0 percent as of January 1, 2015. The New Capital Rules also establish a supplementary leverage ratio requirement for advanced approaches banking organizations such as the Company, consistent with the Basel III framework. The supplementary leverage ratio is the ratio of Tier 1 capital to an expanded concept of leverage exposure that includes both on-balance sheet and certain off-balance sheet exposures. The New Capital Rules require a minimum supplemental leverage ratio of 3.0 percent for advanced approaches banking organizations, with reporting to the federal banking regulators commencing January 1, 2015 and full implementation and compliance by January 1, 2018. 43 Table of Contents Liquidity Regulation. Liquidity risk management and supervision have become increasingly important since the financial crisis. During 2014, the federal banking regulators adopted final rules implementing for certain U.S. banking organizations one of the two new standards provided for in the Basel III liquidity framework — the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), which is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets that can be converted into cash to meet its liquidity needs for a 30-day time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario specified by supervisors. The ratio of a firm’s high-quality liquid assets to its projected net outflows is its LCR. The most comprehensive form of the LCR requirement applies only to advanced approaches banking organizations, such as the Company, and their depository institution subsidiaries with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets, such as AEBSFB and Centurion Bank. Under the federal banking regulators’ LCR rule, covered banking organizations are required to comply with the LCR on an accelerated schedule, maintaining a minimum ratio of 80 percent beginning January 1, 2015, 90 percent by January 1, 2016 and 100 percent by January 1, 2017. The Company is required to calculate and report the LCR on a monthly basis starting January 31, 2015, and on a daily basis starting July 1, 2016. The Company, AEBSFB and Centurion Bank expect to meet the requirements of the LCR rule, as phased-in and on a fully phased-in basis. The Basel III framework also included a second standard, referred to as the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), which is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incent banking entities to increase their holdings of cash, U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source. Federal banking regulators have not yet proposed rules implementing the NSFR liquidity framework for U.S. banking institutions, so the ultimate requirements to which we may be subject are not yet known. On October 31, 2014, the Basel Committee published the final NSFR, which contemplates that the NSFR will be implemented as a minimum standard by January 1, 2018. The Basel Committee’s final NSFR document states that the NSFR applies to internationally active banks, as did its final LCR document. The Federal Reserve’s proposed heightened prudential requirements for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of consolidated total assets also include enhanced liquidity standards, as discussed above under “Heightened Prudential Requirements for Large Bank Holding Companies.” Prompt Corrective Action The FDIA requires, among other things, that federal banking regulators take prompt corrective action in respect of FDIC-insured depository institutions (such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB) that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDIA specifies five capital tiers: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital tier depends upon how its capital levels compare to various relevant capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. A bank may be deemed to be in a capitalization category that is lower than is indicated by its actual capital position if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating. Once an institution becomes “undercapitalized,” the FDIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which an institution is classified. A depository institution that is not well capitalized is also subject to restrictions on the acceptance of brokered deposits including Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service deposits. A significant amount of the Company’s outstanding U.S. retail deposits has been raised through third-party channels, and such deposits are considered brokered deposits for bank regulatory purposes. For a description of our deposit programs, see “Deposit Programs” under “U.S. Card Services — Consumer and Small Business Services” above and “Deposit Programs” on pages 44-45 of our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. The FDIA generally prohibits an FDIC-insured depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of dividends) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to 44 Table of Contents restrictions on borrowing from the Federal Reserve and to growth limitations, and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. For a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, any holding company must guarantee the capital plan up to an amount equal to the lesser of 5 percent of the depository institution’s assets at the time it became undercapitalized and the amount of the capital deficiency at the time it fails to comply with the plan. In the event of the holding company’s bankruptcy, such guarantee would take priority over claims of its general unsecured creditors. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized. Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator. Early Remediation Regime Dodd-Frank requires the establishment of an “early remediation” regime for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, including the Company. In January 2012, the Federal Reserve published a notice of proposed rulemaking that included a proposed early remediation system based in part on the prompt corrective action regime that currently applies to insured depository institutions under the FDIA. The proposed rule, however, utilizes “forward-looking” triggers based on capital and leverage, stress test requirements, risk management, liquidity and publicly available market data. Because these rules are not yet final, their ultimate impact on us is not certain. Transactions Between Centurion Bank or AEBFSB and Their Respective Affiliates Certain transactions (including loans and credit extensions from Centurion Bank and AEBFSB) between Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, on the one hand, and their affiliates (including the Company, TRS and their non-bank subsidiaries), on the other hand, are subject to quantitative and qualitative limitations, collateral requirements, and other restrictions imposed by statute and Federal Reserve regulation. Transactions subject to these restrictions are generally required to be made on an arms-length basis. These restrictions generally do not apply to transactions between a depository institution and its subsidiaries. FDIC Insurance Assessments Centurion Bank and AEBFSB accept deposits and those deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits. The FDIC’s deposit insurance fund (“Deposit Insurance Fund”) is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions. Each institution’s assessments are based on the average consolidated total assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period (the “assessment base”). The assessment rate applicable to large depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, is adjusted based upon the insured depository institution’s ratio of (1) long-term unsecured debt to the assessment base, (2) long-term unsecured debt issued by another insured depository institution to the assessment base and (3) brokered deposits to the assessment base. The adjustments for brokered deposits to the assessment base do not apply so long as the institution is well capitalized and has a composite CAMELS rating of 1 or 2. The rules permit the FDIC to impose additional discretionary assessment rate adjustments. Dodd-Frank requires the FDIC to maintain a minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund of 1.35 percent of estimated insured deposits by September 30, 2020. On December 20, 2010, the FDIC issued a final rule setting the increased reserve ratio at 2 percent. This rule represents an increase in the reserve ratio and will result in increased costs for Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. In addition, Dodd-Frank eliminated the ceiling (1.5 percent of insured deposits) on the size of the Deposit Insurance Fund and made the payment of dividends from the Deposit Insurance Fund by the FDIC discretionary. 45 Table of Contents Under the FDIA, the FDIC may terminate the insurance of an institution’s deposits upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. We do not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance at either of our insured depository institution subsidiaries. FDIC Powers upon Insolvency of Insured Depository Institutions If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution, such as Centurion Bank or AEBFSB, upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power: (1) to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors; (2) to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms; or (3) to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmation or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution. In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution and depositors in non-U.S. offices, in the liquidation or other resolution of the institution by a receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of Centurion Bank or AEBFSB, the debt holders and depositors in non-U.S. offices would be treated differently from, and could receive substantially less, if anything, than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution. Orderly Liquidation Authority under Dodd-Frank Dodd-Frank created the Orderly Liquidation Authority (“OLA”), a resolution regime for systemically important non-bank financial companies, including bank holding companies, under which the Treasury Secretary may appoint the FDIC as receiver to liquidate such a company if the company is in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability. This determination by the Treasury Secretary must come after supermajority recommendations by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC and consultation by the Treasury Secretary with the President of the United States, and after certain other conditions are met. OLA is similar to the FDIC resolution model for depository institutions, including granting very broad powers to the FDIC as receiver. Though creditors’ rights under OLA were modified from the FDIC regime to reduce disparities in treatment between OLA and the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, substantial differences exist between the two regimes, including the right of the FDIC to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in limited circumstances, the use of an administrative claims procedure to determine creditor claims (as opposed to the judicial procedure used in bankruptcy proceedings), and the right of the FDIC to transfer claims to a “bridge” entity. The OLA is separate from the Company’s resolution plan discussed above in “Financial Holding Company Status and Activities — Living Wills.” Dodd-Frank also established an Orderly Liquidation Fund that may provide liquidity to the receivership or a related “bridge” entity in an OLA liquidation proceeding. The Orderly Liquidation Fund would be funded through borrowings from the U.S. Department of Treasury and repaid from the assets of the failed financial company and, if necessary, risk-based assessments made, first, on entities that received more in the OLA proceeding than they would have received in a Chapter 7 liquidation to the extent of such excess and, second, on bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as the Company, and on certain other non-bank financial companies. If an orderly liquidation is triggered, the Company could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. It is not possible to determine the level of any such future assessments. The FDIC has developed a strategy under OLA, referred to as the “single point of entry” or “SPOE” strategy, under which the FDIC would resolve a failed financial holding company by transferring its assets 46 Table of Contents (including shares of its operating subsidiaries) and, potentially, very limited liabilities to a “bridge” holding company; utilize the resources of the failed financial holding company to recapitalize the operating subsidiaries; and satisfy the claims of unsecured creditors of the failed financial holding company and other claimants in the receivership by delivering securities of one or more new financial companies that would emerge from the bridge holding company. Under this strategy, management of the failed financial holding company would be replaced and shareholders and creditors of the failed financial holding company would bear the losses resulting from the failure. The FDIC issued a notice in December 2013 describing some elements of the SPOE strategy, and seeking public comment to further develop the strategy. Cross-Guarantee Provisions Under the “cross-guarantee” provision of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), insured depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss incurred or reasonably anticipated to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository institution. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are commonly controlled within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision. Community Reinvestment Act Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are subject to the CRA, which imposes affirmative, ongoing obligations on depository institutions to meet the credit needs of their local communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution. The CRA requires an institution’s primary federal regulator, as part of the examination process, to assess the institution’s record in meeting its obligations under the CRA, and also to take such assessment into account in evaluating merger and acquisition proposals and applications to open or relocate a branch office. AEBFSB was examined by the OCC for CRA compliance during the third quarter of 2012 and received a “satisfactory” CRA rating. Centurion Bank was examined by the FDIC during the fourth quarter of 2013 and received a “satisfactory” CRA rating. In the case of a bank holding company, such as the Company and TRS, applying for approval to acquire a bank or bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the record of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company in considering the application. In addition, as discussed previously, the failure of the Company’s U.S. banking subsidiaries to maintain satisfactory CRA ratings could result in restrictions on the Company’s and TRS’ ability to engage in activities in reliance on financial holding company authority. Privacy and Data Protection We have established and continue to maintain policies that provide the framework for compliance with applicable privacy, data protection and information security laws, meet evolving customer privacy expectations and support and enable business innovation and growth. We use information about our customers to develop and make available relevant, personalized products and services. Customers are given choices about how we use and disclose their information, and we give them notice regarding the measures we take to safeguard this information in accordance with applicable privacy, data protection and information security laws. Regulatory and legislative activity, as well as media and public focus, in the areas of privacy, data protection and information security continues to increase worldwide, spurred by advancements in technology (including mobile devices), broad use of the internet, expanding uses of mobile commerce and social networking, related concerns about the rapid and widespread collection, dissemination and use of personal information, and highly publicized security breaches and cybersecurity incidents. Our regulators, including regulatory examiners, are increasingly focused on ensuring that our privacy, data protection and information security-related policies and practices, including those related to access controls, are adequate to inform consumers of our data collection, use, sharing and/or security practices, to provide them with choices, if required, about how we use and share their 47 Table of Contents information, and to safeguard their personal information in accordance with applicable privacy, data protection and information security laws. In the United States, certain of our businesses may be subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”) and its implementing regulations and guidance. Among other things, the GLBA imposes certain limitations on the ability of a financial institution to share consumers’ nonpublic personal information with nonaffiliated third parties; requires that a financial institution provide certain disclosures to consumers about its data collection, sharing and security practices and affords customers the right to “opt out” of the institution’s disclosure of their personal financial information to nonaffiliated third parties (with limited exceptions), and requires the financial institution to develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities and the sensitivity of customer information processed by the financial institution. The GLBA does not preempt state laws that afford greater privacy protections to consumers. Various states also have adopted laws, rules and/or regulations pertaining to privacy and/or information security, including certain potentially applicable financial privacy laws (such as a law in effect in California); data security and/or data disposal requirements (including potentially applicable requirements adopted in states such as Massachusetts and Nevada); online privacy laws (such as a law in effect in California); and laws relating to the confidentiality of certain types of data (such as laws governing certain health-related information and/or Social Security numbers, for which there are also potentially applicable federal laws, rules, regulations and/or guidance as well). Certain of these requirements may apply to the personal information of our employees and/or contractors as well as our customers. Various U.S. federal banking regulators and 47 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands have enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulator and/or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a data security breach. Data breach notification laws are also becoming more prevalent in other parts of the world where we operate, including Germany, Japan, Mexico, South Korea and Taiwan. In many countries that have yet to impose data breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to encourage voluntary breach notification. We are also subject to certain privacy, data protection and information security laws in other countries in which we operate (including countries in the EU, Australia, Canada, Japan, Hong Kong, Mexico and Singapore), some of which are more stringent than those in the United States. In Europe, European Directive 95/46/EC (commonly referred to as the “Data Protection Directive”), which has been in place since 1995, provides for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. The Data Protection Directive requires the controller and/or processor of an individual’s personal data to, among other things, take the necessary technical and organizational steps to protect personal data. European Directive 2002/58/EC (commonly referred to as the “e-Privacy Directive”) sets out requirements for the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector. The ePrivacy Directive places restrictions on, among other things, the sending of unsolicited marketing communications, as well as on the collection and use of data about internet users. Compliance with data protection laws in Europe and elsewhere could result in higher technology, administrative and other costs for the Company and limit our ability to optimize the use of our closed-loop data. The Commission released in January 2012 the text of its draft proposed data protection framework regulation to replace the EU Data Protection Directive (95/46/EC). The EU legislation process is still ongoing; however, if enacted, the new regulation will affect parties, such as the Company, that collect and/or process the personal data of residents of Member States and may result in additional compliance requirements and costs. The draft General Data Protection Regulation proposes, among other things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches, in certain circumstances, to data subjects and supervisory authorities, applying uniformly across sectors and across the EU and proposes significant fines for non-compliance with the proposed regulation’s requirements. 48 Table of Contents In November 2012, we received approval from the data protection authority in the United Kingdom of our binding corporate rules (“BCR”) for transferring personal data collected in European Economic Area countries to American Express group companies worldwide. This approval became effective January 28, 2013. Following a consultation process between the U.K. authority and the data protection authorities in other countries in Europe, we have also received the formal approval for our BCR in the following countries: Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Spain, Sweden and The Netherlands. On July 1, 2014, part of Canada’s Anti-Spam Law (“CASL”) became effective. CASL is broader in scope than the anti-spam laws of the United States and other countries. In addition, CASL has extra-territorial reach, meaning that it can apply to senders outside Canada. Compliance with CASL, as well as other Canadian privacy laws, could result in higher costs for us or require operational changes. In recent years we have seen some countries consider in-country data processing laws and/or laws requiring in-country storage of the personal data of its citizens. One such law was passed in Russia and, at present, the deadline for compliance is September 1, 2015. Compliance with such laws in Russia and elsewhere could result in higher technology, administrative and other costs for us and limit our ability to optimize the use of our closed-loop data. We continue our efforts to safeguard the personal information entrusted to us in accordance with applicable privacy, data protection and information security laws and our internal policies, including taking steps to reduce the potential for identity theft or other fraud, while seeking to collect and use personal information in an appropriate manner to achieve our business objectives. We also have undertaken measures to assess the level of access to customer and employee data by our employees, partners and service providers. Fair Credit Reporting The FCRA regulates the disclosure of consumer credit reports by consumer reporting agencies and the use of consumer credit report information by banks and other companies. Among other things, FCRA places restrictions (with limited exceptions) on the sharing and use of certain personal financial and creditworthiness information of our customers with and by our affiliates. The FCRA was significantly amended by the enactment in 2003 of the FACT Act. The FACT Act requires any company that receives information concerning a consumer from an affiliate, subject to certain exceptions, to permit the consumer to opt out from having that information used to market the company’s products to the consumer. In 2007, federal banking regulators issued a final rule implementing the affiliate marketing provisions of the FACT Act. Companies subject to oversight by these agencies were required to comply with the rule by October 1, 2008. We have implemented various mechanisms to allow our customers to opt out of affiliate sharing and of marketing by the Company and our affiliates, and we continue to review and enhance these mechanisms to ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and a favorable customer experience. The FACT Act further amended the FCRA by adding several provisions designed to prevent or decrease identity theft and to improve the accuracy of consumer credit information. Federal banking regulators and the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) published a final rule in 2007 requiring financial institutions to implement a program containing reasonable policies and procedures to address the risk of identity theft and to identify accounts where identity theft is more likely to occur. Companies subject to oversight by federal banking regulators originally were required to comply with the rule by November 1, 2008, but the FTC suspended enforcement of its rule through December 31, 2010 pending consideration of legislation by Congress to clarify the scope of entities covered by the law and the implementing regulations. On December 18, 2010, the President signed into law the Red Flag Program Clarification Act of 2010. Our internal policies and standards, as well as our enterprise-wide data protection, information security and fraud prevention programs, are designed to comply with the new identity theft requirements. 49 Table of Contents The FACT Act also imposes duties on both consumer reporting agencies and on businesses that furnish or use information contained in consumer credit reports. For example, a furnisher of information is required to implement procedures to prevent the reporting of any information that it learns is the result of identity theft. Also, if a consumer disputes the accuracy of information provided to a consumer reporting agency, the furnisher of that information must conduct an investigation and respond to the consumer in a timely fashion. Federal banking regulators and the FTC have issued rules that specify the circumstances under which furnishers of information would be required to investigate disputes regarding the accuracy of the information provided to a consumer reporting agency. The FACT Act also requires grantors of credit that use consumer credit report information in making a determination to offer a borrower credit on terms that are “materially less favorable” than the terms offered to most of the lender’s other customers to notify the borrower that the terms are based on a consumer credit report. In such a case the borrower is entitled to receive a free copy of the report from the consumer reporting agency. Federal banking regulators and the FTC have issued rules that specify the circumstances under which “risk-based pricing” notices must be provided to customers and the content, format and timing of such notices. Since 2011, Dodd-Frank has required the addition of certain information about credit scores to “risk-based pricing” notices and to adverse action notices otherwise required by the FCRA. Grantors of credit using prescreened consumer credit report information in credit solicitations are also required to include an enhanced notice to consumers that they have the right to opt out from receiving further prescreened offers of credit. The enactment of the FACT Act and the promulgation of rules implementing it are not expected to have a significant impact on our business or practices. The CARD Act We are subject to the provisions of the legislation known as the CARD Act, which was enacted in 2009. The CARD Act and the regulations implementing the CARD Act regulate credit card billing, pricing, disclosure and other practices, as well as certain aspects of gift certificates, store gift cards and general-use prepaid cards primarily for personal use. With respect to billing and payment, the CARD Act prohibits a card issuer from treating any payment as late for any purpose, including imposing a penalty interest rate or late fee, unless the issuer has adopted reasonable procedures designed to ensure that a periodic statement showing the required minimum payment is mailed to the consumer at least 21 days before the payment due date. Issuers are required to apply payment amounts in excess of the required minimum payment first to the balance with the highest annual percentage rate (“APR”) and then to each successive balance bearing the next highest APR. With respect to pricing, the CARD Act prohibits an issuer from increasing any APR on an outstanding balance, except in specific enumerated circumstances, such as when a promotional rate expires, a variable rate adjusts, or an account is 60 or more days delinquent. An issuer also generally may not increase an APR applicable to future uses of a credit card, or an annual fee, within the first year after account opening, and then, in each case, only with advance notice. If an issuer increases an APR, the CARD Act requires that the issuer periodically reevaluate the APR increase to determine if a decrease is “appropriate.” With respect to disclosure, the CARD Act generally requires issuers to provide certain repayment disclosures on periodic statements, such as a disclosure of the total cost to the consumer, including interest charges, of paying off a balance by making only the required minimum payment each billing cycle. An issuer is also obligated to provide 45 days’ advance notice prior to making “significant” changes to the terms of an account (such as increasing an APR or a late fee) and, in some cases, gives the consumer the right to reject the proposed change. Other significant CARD Act provisions include requirements that the amount of each penalty fee for a violation with respect to the account be “reasonable and proportional” to such violation; that issuers must not open a credit card account or increase a credit line without considering the consumer’s ability to make the required minimum payments under the terms of the account; and that issuers must periodically provide card account agreements to the CFPB for posting on its public website. 50 Table of Contents The CARD Act imposes certain restrictions on gift certificates, store gift cards and general-use prepaid cards issued primarily for personal, family or household use (subject to certain exclusions and exceptions). The CARD Act permits the imposition of dormancy, inactivity and service fees on gift certificates, store gift cards and general-use prepaid cards only after one year of inactivity. Additionally, the rules prohibit the sale or issuance of a gift certificate, store gift card and general-use prepaid card that has funds with an expiration date of less than, with respect to a gift certificate, five years after the date the certificate was issued and, with respect to a store gift card or general-use prepaid card, five years after the date on which funds were last loaded. The rules also require implementation of policies and procedures intended to give consumers a reasonable opportunity to purchase a certificate or card with at least five years before the applicable expiration date. The rules prohibit fees for replacing an expired certificate or card or refunding the remaining balance if the underlying funds remain valid (except for lost or stolen cards). The CARD Act also requires certain disclosures regarding any fee other than a dormancy, inactivity or service fee. Anti-Money Laundering Compliance American Express is subject to a significant number of AML laws and regulations as a result of being a financial company headquartered in the United States, as well as having a global presence. In the United States, the majority of AML requirements are derived from the Bank Secrecy Act, as it has been amended by the Patriot Act. In Europe, AML requirements are largely the result of countries transposing the 3rd European Union Money Laundering Directive (and preceding EU Money Laundering Directives) into local laws and regulations. We anticipate the passage of the 4th European Money Laundering Directive in 2015, which may add new AML requirements. Numerous other countries, such as Argentina, Australia, Canada and Mexico, have also enacted or proposed new or enhanced AML legislation and regulations applicable to American Express. The underpinnings of these laws and regulations are the efforts of each government to prevent the financial system from being used by criminals to hide their illicit proceeds and to impede terrorists’ ability to access and move funds used in support of terrorist activities. Among other things, these laws and regulations require financial institutions to establish AML programs that meet certain standards, including, in some instances, expanded reporting, particularly in the area of suspicious transactions, and enhanced information gathering and recordkeeping requirements. Any errors, failures or delays in complying with federal, state or foreign AML and counter-terrorist financing laws could result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties and forfeiture of significant assets or other enforcement actions. American Express has established and continues to maintain a Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy, designed to ensure that, at a minimum, American Express and all of its businesses are in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations related to AML and anti-terrorist financing initiatives. The American Express Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy requires that each American Express business maintains a compliance program that provides for a system of internal controls to ensure that appropriate due diligence and, when necessary, enhanced due diligence, including obtaining and maintaining appropriate documentation, is conducted at account opening and updated, as necessary, through the course of the customer relationship. The Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy is also designed to ensure there are appropriate methods of monitoring transactions and account relationships to identify potentially suspicious activity and reporting suspicious activity to governmental authorities in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. In addition, the American Express Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy requires the training of appropriate personnel with regard to AML and anti-terrorist financing issues and provides for independent testing to ensure that the Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. The United States prohibits U.S. persons from engaging with individuals and entities identified as “Specially Designated Nationals,” such as terrorists and narcotics traffickers. These prohibitions are administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control 51 Table of Contents (“OFAC”) and are typically known as the OFAC rules. The OFAC rules prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in financial transactions with or relating to the prohibited individual, entity or country, require the blocking of assets in which the individual, entity or country has an interest, and prohibit transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons) to such individual, entity or country. Blocked assets (e.g., property or bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. We maintain a global sanctions program designed to ensure compliance with OFAC requirements. Failure to comply with such requirements could subject us to serious legal and reputational consequences, including criminal penalties. Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, which added Section 13(r) to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), an issuer is required to disclose in its annual or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or with individuals or entities designated pursuant to certain Executive Orders. Disclosure is generally required even where the activities, transactions or dealings were conducted outside the United States by non-U.S. affiliates in compliance with applicable law, and whether or not the activities are sanctionable under U.S. law. During the year ended December 31, 2014, American Express Global Business Travel booked one ticket on Iran Air, three tickets on Mahan Air and one hotel reservation at Homa Hotel Tehran. In addition, certain third-party service providers obtained approximately 50 visas from Iranian embassies and consulates around the world during the year ended December 31, 2014 in connection with certain travel arrangements on behalf of American Express Global Business Travel clients. American Express Global Business Travel had negligible gross revenues and net profits attributable to these transactions. American Express Global Business Travel believes these transactions were permissible pursuant to certain exemptions from U.S. sanctions for travel-related transactions under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, as amended. American Express Global Business Travel has informed us that it intends to continue to engage in this activity on a limited basis so long as such activity is permitted under U.S. law. In addition, a travel company that may be considered an affiliate of ours, American Express Nippon Travel Agency, Inc. (“Nippon Travel Agency”), has informed us that during the year ended December 31, 2014 it obtained 47 visas from the Iranian embassy in Japan in connection with certain travel arrangements on behalf of its clients. Nippon Travel Agency had negligible gross revenues and net profits attributable to these transactions. Nippon Travel Agency has informed us that it intends to continue to engage in this activity so long as such activity is permitted under U.S. law. Compensation Practices Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. In June 2010, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC and the OTS jointly issued final guidance on sound incentive compensation policies that applies to all banking organizations supervised by the Federal Reserve, including bank holding companies, such as the Company, as well as all insured depository institutions, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. The final guidance sets forth three key principles for incentive compensation arrangements that are designed to help ensure that incentive compensation plans do not encourage imprudent risk-taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of banking organizations. The three principles provide that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should (1) provide incentives that appropriately balance risk and financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risks, (2) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (3) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. Any deficiencies in compensation practices of a banking institution that are identified by the Federal Reserve or other banking regulators in connection with its review of such organization’s compensation practices may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The final guidance provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive 52 Table of Contents compensation arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. Additionally, in 2011, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the OTS, the SEC, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the National Credit Union Administration issued proposed rulemaking pursuant to Dodd-Frank on incentive-based compensation practices. Under the proposed rule, all financial institutions with total consolidated assets of $1 billion or more (such as the Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB) would be prohibited from offering incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by offering “excessive” compensation or compensation that could lead the company to material financial loss. All covered institutions would be required to provide federal regulators with additional disclosures to determine compliance with the proposed rule and also to maintain policies and procedures to ensure compliance. Additionally, for covered institutions with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, such as the Company, the proposed rule requires that at least 50 percent of certain executive officers’ incentive-based compensation be deferred for a minimum of three years and provides for the adjustment of deferred payments to reflect actual losses or other measures of performance that become known during the deferral period. Moreover, the board of directors of a covered institution with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets must identify employees who have authority to expose an institution to substantial risk, evaluate and document the incentive-based compensation methods used to balance risk and financial rewards for the identified employees, and approve incentive-based compensation arrangements for those employees after appropriately considering other available methods for balancing risk and financial rewards. The comment period for this rule ended in May 2011. Although final rules have not yet been adopted, officials from the Federal Reserve have indicated that federal banking regulators are in the process of preparing for public comment a new rule on incentive compensation. If these or other regulations are adopted in a form similar to what was initially proposed, they will impose limitations on the manner in which we may structure compensation for our executives. The scope and content of these policies and regulations on executive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies and regulations will adversely affect our ability to hire, retain and motivate key employees. Anti-Corruption We are subject to complex international and U.S. anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), the U.K. Bribery Act and other laws that prohibit the making or offering of improper payments. The FCPA makes it illegal to corruptly offer or provide anything of value to foreign government officials, political parties or political party officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or an improper advantage. The anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA are enforced by the DOJ. The FCPA also requires us to strictly comply with certain accounting and internal controls standards, which are enforced by the SEC. In recent years, DOJ and SEC enforcement of the FCPA has become more intense. The U.K. Bribery Act, which took effect in July 2011, also prohibits commercial bribery, and the receipt of a bribe, and makes it a corporate offense to fail to prevent bribery by an associated person, in addition to prohibiting improper payments to foreign government officials. Failure to comply with the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and other laws can expose us and/or individual employees to potentially severe criminal and civil penalties. The risk may be greater when we transact business, whether through subsidiaries or joint ventures or other partnerships, in countries with higher perceived levels of corruption. We have risk-based policies and procedures designed to detect and deter prohibited practices, provide specialized training, monitor our operations and payments, and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the manner in which transactions are recorded. However, if our employees, contractors or agents fail to comply with applicable laws governing our international operations, the Company, as well as individual employees, may face investigations or prosecutions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 53 Table of Contents FOREIGN OPERATIONS We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the use of our Card products and other financial services in countries outside the United States and continue to broaden the use of these products and services outside the United States. (For a discussion of our revenue by geographic region, see Note 25 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which you can find on pages 118-120 of our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.) Our revenues can be affected by political and economic conditions in these countries (including the availability of foreign exchange for the payment by the local Card issuer of obligations arising out of local Card Members’ spending outside such country and for the payment of Card bills by Card Members who are billed in a currency other than their local currency). Substantial and sudden devaluation of local Card Members’ currency can also affect their ability to make payments to the local issuer of the Card in connection with spending outside the local country. As a result of our foreign operations, we are exposed to the possibility that, because of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar may be realized in amounts greater or less than the U.S. dollar amounts at which they are currently recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Examples of transactions in which this may occur include the purchase by Card Members of goods and services in a currency other than the currency in which they are billed; the sale in one currency of a Travelers Cheque denominated in a second currency; and, in most instances, investments in foreign operations. These risks, unless properly monitored and managed, could have an adverse effect on our operations. For more information on how we manage risk relating to foreign exchange, see “Risk Management — Market Risk Management Process” on pages 53-54 of our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. SEGMENT INFORMATION AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR SERVICES You can find information regarding the Company’s reportable operating segments, geographic operations and classes of similar services in Note 25 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which appears on pages 118-120 of our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders, which Note is incorporated herein by reference. 54 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY Set forth below in alphabetical order is a list of all our executive officers as of February 24, 2015, including each executive officer’s principal occupation and employment during the past five years. None of our executive officers has any family relationship with any other executive officer, and none of our executive officers became an officer pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with any other person. Each executive officer has been elected to serve until the next annual election of officers or until his or her successor is elected and qualified. Each officer’s age is indicated by the number in parentheses next to his or her name. DOUGLAS E. BUCKMINSTER — President, Global Network and International Card Services Mr. Buckminster (54) has been President, Global Network and International Card Services since February 2012. He has been President, International Consumer and Small Business Services of the Company since November 2009. JAMES BUSH — Executive Vice President, World Service Mr. Bush (56) has been Executive Vice President, World Service since October 2009. JEFFREY C. CAMPBELL — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Campbell (54) has been Executive Vice President, Finance, of the Company since July 2013 and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since August 2013. Mr. Campbell joined American Express from McKesson Corporation, a health care services company, where he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2004. KENNETH I. CHENAULT — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Chenault (63) has been Chairman since April 2001 and Chief Executive Officer since January 2001. L. KEVIN COX — Chief Human Resources Officer Mr. Cox (51) has been Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company since April 2005. EDWARD P. GILLIGAN — President Mr. Gilligan (55) has been President of the Company since April 2013. He has been head of the Company’s Global Consumer and Small Business Card Issuing, Network and Merchant businesses since October 2009. Prior thereto, he had been Vice Chairman of the Company and head of the Company’s Global Business-to-Business Group since July 2007. MARC D. GORDON — Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Mr. Gordon (54) has been Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer since September 2012. Mr. Gordon joined American Express from Bank of America, where he served as Enterprise Chief Information Officer from December 2011 until April 2012. Prior thereto, he had been Chief Technology Officer and head of Global Delivery Operations at Bank of America from May 2008 until November 2011. ASH GUPTA — Chief Risk Officer and President, Risk and Information Management Mr. Gupta (61) has been President of Risk and Information Management and Chief Risk Officer since July 2007. JOHN D. HAYES — Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Mr. Hayes (60) has been Executive Vice President since May 1995 and Chief Marketing Officer of the Company since August 2003. MICHAEL J. O’NEILL — Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Communications Mr. O’Neill (61) has been Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Communications since September 2014. Prior thereto, he had been Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Communications since March 1991. 55 Table of Contents NEAL SAMPLE — President, Enterprise Growth Mr. Sample (40) has been President, Enterprise Growth since September 2014. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer and Chief Marketing Technologist for Enterprise Growth since April 2012. Mr. Sample joined American Express from eBay where he served as the Chief Technology Officer of X.commerce, eBay’s open development and commerce platform, from May 2011 until April 2012. Prior thereto, he was the Vice President of Architecture and Platform Products at eBay from September 2010 until May 2011. Prior thereto, he was a Vice President at Yahoo! from 2008 until 2010. LAUREEN E. SEEGER — Executive Vice President and General Counsel Ms. Seeger (53) has been Executive Vice President and General Counsel since July 2014. Ms. Seeger joined American Express from McKesson Corporation where she served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer since 2006. JOSHUA G. SILVERMAN — President, Consumer Products and Services Mr. Silverman (46) has been President, Consumer Products and Services since July 2011. Before joining American Express, Mr. Silverman served as Executive in Residence for Greylock Ventures, a venture capital firm, from October 2010 until June 2011. Mr. Silverman was the Chief Executive Officer of Skype from March 2008 until October 2010. SUSAN SOBBOTT — President, Global Corporate Payments Ms. Sobbott (50) has been President, Global Corporate Payments since January 2014. Prior thereto, she had been President, American Express OPEN since 2004. STEPHEN J. SQUERI — Group President, Global Corporate Services Mr. Squeri (55) has been Group President, Global Corporate Services since November 2011. Prior thereto, he had been Group President, Global Services since October 2009. From May 2005 to October 2009, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer for the Company. ANRÉ WILLIAMS — President, Global Merchant Services Mr. Williams (49) has been President of Global Merchant Services since November 2011. Prior thereto, he had been President of Global Corporate Payments since June 2007. EMPLOYEES We had approximately 54,000 employees on December 31, 2014. GUIDE 3 — STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES You can find certain statistical disclosures required of bank holding companies starting on page A-1, which are incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This section highlights specific risks that could affect our Company and its businesses. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and uncertainties our Company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. 56 Table of Contents If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Economic and Market Risks Difficult conditions in the business and economic environment, as well as political conditions in the United States and elsewhere, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by economic and market conditions, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Uncertain expectations for a global economic recovery have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on us, in part because we are very dependent upon consumer and business behavior. A prolonged period of slow economic growth or deterioration in economic conditions could change customer behaviors, including spending on our Cards and the ability and willingness of Card Members to pay amounts owed to us. If economic conditions were to worsen, we could experience adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and other energy costs, the volatility and strength of the capital markets and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, our profitability. An economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower consumer spending, lower demand for credit, lower corporate earnings or lower business investment is likely to materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, such factors may cause our earnings, credit metrics and margins to fluctuate and diverge from expectations of analysts and investors, who may have differing assumptions regarding their impact on our business, adversely affecting the trading price of our common shares. Political or economic instability in certain regions or countries could also affect consumer spending and our lending activities, among other businesses, or result in restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies. In addition, our travel network may be adversely affected by world geopolitical and other conditions. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic downturns. We held approximately $4.4 billion of investment securities of state and municipal obligations as of December 31, 2014. In the event that actual default rates of these investment securities were to significantly change from historical patterns due to challenges in the economy or otherwise, it could have a material adverse impact on the value of our investment portfolio. While we do not have any material exposure to European sovereign debt as of December 31, 2014, economic disruptions in other countries, even in countries in which we do not conduct business or have operations, could adversely affect us. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. We need liquidity to pay merchants, operating expenses, interest on debt and dividends on capital stock and to repay maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to limit our investments in growth opportunities or curtail operations. The principal sources of our liquidity are payments from Card Members and merchants, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash, direct and third-party sourced deposits, debt instruments such as unsecured medium- and long-term notes and asset securitizations, securitized borrowings through our secured financing facilities, the Federal Reserve discount window and long-term committed bank borrowing facilities. 57 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain financing in the debt capital markets for unsecured term debt and asset securitizations is dependent on investor demand. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility across the financial markets could negatively impact market liquidity and limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost to raise capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. Market disruption and volatility could have an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a further discussion of our liquidity and funding needs, see “Financial Review — Funding Programs and Activities” on pages 43-45 of our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Any reduction in our and our subsidiaries’ credit ratings could increase the cost of our funding from, and restrict our access to, the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although our and our subsidiaries’ long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies, the ratings of that debt were downgraded during the second quarter of 2009 by Moody’s Investors Services (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), two of the major rating agencies. The rating agencies regularly evaluate us and our subsidiaries, and their ratings of our and our subsidiaries’ long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including financial strength as well as factors not within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally, and the wider state of the economy. There can be no assurance that we and our subsidiaries will maintain our current respective ratings. Failure to maintain those ratings could, among other things, adversely limit our access to the capital markets and adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we and our subsidiaries are able to obtain funding. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take. As with other companies in the financial services industry, our and our subsidiaries’ ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any of the rating agencies. Adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease earnings we receive from our international operations and impact our capital. During 2014, approximately 28 percent of our total revenues net of interest expense were generated from activities outside the United States. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk from our international operations, and some of the revenue we generate outside the United States is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if the values of other currencies change relative to the U.S. dollar. Resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of other currencies into U.S. dollars. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could decrease the U.S. dollar value of the revenues from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2014, foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted our net revenues of $34.3 billion by approximately $0.4 billion as the U.S. dollar strengthened against many currencies over the course of the year, and we currently expect foreign exchange to have an adverse impact on our results in 2015. 58 Table of Contents Legal and Regulatory Risks Ongoing legal proceedings regarding our non-discrimination and honor-all-cards provisions in merchant contracts could require changes to those provisions that could result in a material loss of revenue or increased expenses, substantial monetary judgments and/or damage to our reputation and brand. The DOJ and certain states’ attorneys general have brought an action against us alleging that the provisions in our Card acceptance agreements with merchants that prohibit merchants from discriminating against our Card products at the point of sale violate the U.S. antitrust laws. Visa and MasterCard, which were also defendants in the DOJ and state action, entered into a settlement and have been dismissed as parties pursuant to that agreement, which was approved by the Court. The settlement enjoins Visa and MasterCard from entering into contracts that prohibit merchants from engaging in various actions to steer cardholders to other card products or payment forms at the point of sale. On February 19, 2015, the Court found that the challenged provisions were anticompetitive and will now determine the scope of the remedy when it enters judgment in the case. We intend to vigorously pursue an appeal of the decision and judgment. In addition, we are a defendant in a number of actions, including proposed class actions, filed by merchants that challenge the non-discrimination and honor-all-cards provisions in our Card acceptance agreements. In December 2013, we agreed to settle these merchant class actions and the settlement agreement has been preliminarily approved by the Court. There can be no assurance that the Court will grant final approval of the settlement agreement, which can be impacted by objections to the settlement agreement by plaintiffs and other parties, as well as by the appeals process. A description of these legal proceedings is contained in “Legal Proceedings” below. An adverse outcome in these proceedings against us (including an adverse final judgment following appeal in the DOJ and state action) could materially and adversely impact our profitability, require us to change our merchant agreements in a way that could expose our Card products to increased steering, selective acceptance or other forms of discrimination at the point of sale that would impair our Card Members’ experience, could impose substantial monetary damages and/or could damage our reputation and brand. Even if we were not required to change our merchant agreements, changes in Visa’s and MasterCard’s policies or practices as a result of legal proceedings, lawsuit settlements or regulatory actions could result in changes to our business practices and materially and adversely impact our profitability. Our business is subject to significant and extensive government regulation and supervision, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. On November 14, 2008, American Express Company and TRS each became bank holding companies under the BHC Act and elected to be treated as financial holding companies under the BHC Act. As a result of becoming a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve, including, without limitation, consolidated capital regulation at the holding company level, maintenance of certain capital and management standards in connection with our two U.S. depository institutions and restrictions on our non-banking activities, investments and acquisitions under the Federal Reserve’s regulations. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not for the protection of our shareholders or creditors. If we fail to satisfy regulatory requirements applicable to bank holding companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may be restricted in our ability to take certain capital actions (such as declaring dividends or repurchasing outstanding shares) or engage in certain activities or acquisitions. Additionally, our banking regulators have wide discretion in the examination and the enforcement of applicable banking statutes and regulations, and may restrict our ability to engage in certain activities or acquisitions, or may require us to maintain more capital. We are also subject to extensive government regulation and supervision in jurisdictions around the world, both as a participant in the financial services industry and otherwise. Among other things, as a result of regulators enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be fined, required to pay restitution, prohibited from engaging 59 Table of Contents in some of our business activities, subjected to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees. Regulatory action could cause significant damage to our reputation and brand and any change to our business practices that makes our products and services less attractive to our customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, enforcement of laws in some overseas jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. As a result, the profitability of our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected. There is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses may be imposed, which could impact the profitability of our business activities, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, require us to change certain of our business practices or alter our relationships with customers, affect retention of our key personnel, or expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). Such changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to proposed legislation affecting the financial services industry, our results of operations could be adversely impacted by other legislative action or inaction, including the failure of the U.S. Congress to continue the renewal of the active financing exception to Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code, which could increase our effective tax rate and have an adverse impact on our net income. Many of our competitors are subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legislative and regulatory regimes. The more restrictive laws and regulations applicable to U.S. financial institutions like us can put us at a competitive disadvantage to non-traditional players in the alternative payments space and non-U.S. competitors, including prohibiting us from engaging in certain transactions, making the pricing of our products and services more expensive or adversely affecting our cost structure. See “Supervision and Regulation” above for more information about the material laws and regulations to which we are subject. Litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments and/or requirements resulting in significantly increased expenses, damage to our reputation and/or adverse effects on our business. Businesses in the payments industry have historically been subject to significant legal actions and investigations alleging violations of competition/antitrust law, consumer protection law and intellectual property rights, among others. Many of these actions have included claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages, penalties and fines. The continued focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment may lead to additional litigation and other legal actions. Given the inherent uncertainties involved in litigation, and the very large or indeterminate damages sought in some matters asserted against us, there is significant uncertainty as to the ultimate liability we may incur from litigation matters. The finding, or even the assertion, of substantial legal liability against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and could cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. Financial institutions, such as us, have faced significant regulatory scrutiny over the past several years, which has increasingly led to public enforcements actions. The Company and its subsidiaries have been subject to regulatory actions by the CFPB and other regulators and may continue to be involved in such actions, including governmental inquiries, investigations and enforcement proceedings, in the event of noncompliance or alleged noncompliance with laws or regulations. Recently, several large financial institutions have announced well-publicized public settlements of regulatory enforcement actions that have been dramatically larger in size than those seen historically. The recent trend towards larger settlement amounts could lead to a more adverse 60 Table of Contents outcome for a financial institution involved in an enforcement action in the future. We expect that regulators will continue taking formal enforcement actions against financial institutions in addition to addressing supervisory concerns through non-public supervisory actions or findings, which could involve restrictions on our activities, among other limitations that could adversely affect our business. The current environment of additional regulation, enhanced compliance efforts and increased regulatory investigations and enforcement is likely to continue to result in changes to practices, products and procedures, increased costs related to regulatory oversight, supervision and examination, and additional restitution to Card Members. Litigation and regulatory actions generally could subject us to significant fines, increased expenses, restrictions on our activities and damage to our reputation and our brand, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity rules, and if we fail to meet these rules, our financial condition would be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy rules and other regulatory requirements, the Company, TRS and our U.S. banking subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, must meet rules for capital adequacy and leverage ratios that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. Failure by any of the Company, TRS or a U.S. subsidiary depository institution to maintain its respective status as “well capitalized” and “well managed,” if unremedied over a period of time, could compromise our competitive position and could result in restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve, including limiting our ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase our common stock or invest in our business. The capital requirements applicable to the Company and TRS as bank holding companies and our U.S. banking subsidiaries have been substantially revised to implement the international Basel III framework and are in the process of being phased-in. Once these revisions are fully phased-in, the Company, TRS and our U.S. banking subsidiaries will be required to satisfy more stringent capital adequacy standards than in the past. We estimate that, had Basel III been fully phased-in during the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company’s capital ratios under the U.S. Basel Capital III Rules would have exceeded the minimum requirements. This estimate could change in the future. As part of our required stress testing, both internally and by the Federal Reserve, we must continue to comply with applicable capital standards in the adverse and severely adverse economic scenarios published by the Federal Reserve each year. To satisfy these requirements, it may be necessary for us to hold additional capital in excess of that required by the New Capital Rules as they are phased-in. In addition to the New Capital Rules, there are several proposals or potential proposals that could significantly impact the regulatory capital standards and requirements applicable to financial institutions such as the Company and our U.S. bank subsidiaries, as well as our ability to meet these requirements. The Basel Committee has adopted a framework for D-SIBs that would impose a capital buffer on certain banks that have an important impact on their domestic economies. While the New Capital Rules did not address the adoption of a surcharge on D-SIBs, federal banking regulators noted that they are considering a capital surcharge for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, or some subset of such institutions, consistent with the Basel Committee’s surcharge proposals. Similarly, the Company, AEBFSB and Centurion Bank are subject to new liquidity rules, including the Basel III-based LCR, focused on a 30-day horizon, and complementary liquidity rules under the Dodd-Frank Act’s enhanced prudential standards for institutions having $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. Additionally, the Basel Committee has adopted the NSFR as a liquidity measure, focused on a one-year time horizon, for internationally active banks. The U.S. federal banking regulators have not yet proposed rules implementing the NSFR in the United States. 61 Table of Contents Accordingly, there continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding significant portions of the capital and liquidity regime that will apply to us and our U.S. banking subsidiaries, and, as a result, the ultimate impact these capital and liquidity requirements will have on our long-term capital and liquidity planning and the results of our operations. While we expect to meet the requirements of the New Capital Rules (inclusive of the capital conservation buffer) and the LCR, each as phased-in by the Federal Reserve, these requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to lend, grow deposit balances, make acquisitions and make capital distributions in the form of increased dividends or share repurchases. Higher capital and liquid asset levels could also lower our return on equity. Failure to meet current or future capital or liquidity requirements, including those imposed by the New Capital Rules, the LCR or by regulators in implementing other portions of the Basel III framework, could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Compliance with capital adequacy and liquidity rules, including the New Capital Rules and the LCR, will require a material investment of resources. Although we have current estimates of risk weight calculations under the Basel III standardized approach, we cannot assure you that our current estimates will be correct and we may need to hold significantly more regulatory capital than we currently estimate in order to maintain a given capital ratio. An inability to meet regulatory expectations regarding our compliance with applicable capital adequacy and liquidity rules may also negatively impact the assessment of the Company, TRS and its U.S. banking subsidiaries by federal banking regulators. For more information on capital adequacy requirements, see “Financial Holding Company Status and Activities — Capital Adequacy and Liquidity” under “Supervision and Regulation” above. We are subject to restrictions that limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our capital stock. Our subsidiaries are also subject to restrictions that limit their ability to pay dividends to us, which may adversely affect our liquidity. We are limited in our ability to pay dividends and repurchase capital stock by our regulators who have broad authority to prohibit any action that would be considered an unsafe or unsound banking practice. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs, asset quality and financial condition. We are also subject to a requirement to submit capital plans that include, among other things, projected dividend payments and repurchases of capital stock, to the Federal Reserve for review. As part of the capital planning and stress testing process, our proposed capital actions are assessed against our ability to satisfy applicable capital requirements in the event of a stressed market environment. If our capital plan is not approved for any reason or if we fail to satisfy applicable capital requirements, our ability to undertake capital actions may be restricted. A failure to increase dividends along with our competitors, or any reduction of, or elimination of, our common stock dividend or share repurchase program would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock and market perceptions of American Express. Our ability to declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, shares of our common stock will be prohibited, subject to certain exceptions, in the event that we do not declare and pay in full dividends for the last preceding dividend period of our Series B preferred stock. American Express Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for liquidity, and federal and state law limit the amount of dividends that our subsidiaries may pay to the parent company. In particular, our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries are subject to various statutory and regulatory limitations on their declaration and payment of dividends. The Company’s liquidity could be reduced to the extent our subsidiaries are unable to declare and pay dividends to the Company when necessary for the Company to meet its obligations, and the Company may be unable to make dividend payments on its outstanding capital stock, make principal and interest payments on its outstanding debt or make other payments on its outstanding obligations. 62 Table of Contents For more information on bank holding company and depository institution dividend restrictions, see “Supervision and Regulation — Financial Holding Company Status and Activities — Dividends” above, as well as “Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity — Share Repurchases and Dividends” on page 42 and Note 23 to our Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 116-117 of our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Banks, card issuers and card network operators generally are the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens and lead to decreased transaction volumes and revenues through our network. We are subject to regulations that affect banks and the payments industry in the United States and many other countries in which our charge and credit Cards are used and where we conduct banking and Card activities. In particular, we are subject to numerous regulations applicable to financial institutions in the United States and abroad. We are also subject to regulations as a provider of services to financial institutions. Regulation of the payments industry has evolved and increased significantly. For example, we are subject to certain provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to maintaining effective AML programs. Increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products and services we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our Cards may be used, and the types of customers and merchants who can obtain or accept our Cards. Activity such as money laundering or terrorist financing involving our Cards could result in enforcement action, and our reputation may suffer due to our customers’ association with certain countries, persons or entities or the existence of any such transactions. In addition, Member States of the European Economic Area have implemented the Payment Services Directive for electronic payment services that put in place a common legal framework for licensing and supervision of payment services providers, including card issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of business. The Directive is now undergoing review and further changes, as yet to be defined, are anticipated. Complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and can reduce our revenue opportunities. Various regulatory agencies and legislatures are also considering regulations and legislation covering identity theft, account management guidelines, credit bureau reporting, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact us directly, in part due to increased scrutiny of our underwriting and account management standards. These new requirements may restrict our ability to issue charge and credit cards or partner with other financial institutions, which could decrease our transaction volumes. In some circumstances, new regulations and legislation could have the effect of limiting our ability to offer new types of charge or credit cards or restricting our ability to offer existing Cards, such as stored-value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth. Legislators and regulators around the world are aware of each other’s approaches to the regulation of the payments industry. Consequently, a development in one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in another. In recent years, several countries outside the United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation of card networks, including interchange fees paid to card issuers in payment networks such as Visa and MasterCard and the fees merchants are charged to accept cards, as well as the terms for merchant card acceptance, including terms relating to non-discrimination and honor-all-cards. For example, certain countries in the EU (e.g., Poland, Hungary, Spain) have enacted local regulation on interchange fees. The EU itself moved significantly toward finalizing EU-wide regulation in 2014 that would cap interchange fees and regulate several other matters related to merchant card acceptance, as described below. In Mexico, the government passed payment network laws that give the central bank and National Banking Commission, acting together, the power to issue regulations about payment systems including interchange and other fees. In Malaysia, the National Bank has issued rules on the regulation of interchange fees and other matters related to card acceptance. In some cases such regulation extends to certain aspects of our business, for example, financial arrangements with GNS partners or terms of card acceptance for merchants. In addition, regulators in Canada, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the EU, among others, have conducted antitrust-related investigations into, or initiated proceedings with respect to, multilateral interchange fees that are ongoing, concluded or on appeal. In some cases these investigations have led to changes in network practices, such as non-discrimination and honor-all-card provisions. 63 Table of Contents The interchange fee, which is the collectively set fee paid by the merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in certain payment networks, is generally the largest component of the merchant service charge charged to merchants for debit and credit card acceptance in these systems. By contrast, the American Express network does not have such interchange fees. For this reason, as well as the fact that Visa and MasterCard are the dominant card networks, the regulators’ focus has primarily been on these networks. However, antitrust actions and government regulation relating to merchant pricing could ultimately affect all networks. Among other impacts, lower interchange and/or merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for other sources of revenue such as higher annual card fees or interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by scaling back or eliminating rewards programs. Dodd-Frank prohibits payment card networks from restricting merchants from offering discounts or incentives to encourage customers to pay with particular forms of payment such as cash, check, credit or debit cards, so long as offers to encourage credit or debit card payments do not discriminate on the basis of the network or issuer. Further, to the extent required by federal law or applicable state law, the discount or incentive must be offered to all prospective buyers and must be clearly and conspicuously disclosed. Dodd-Frank also permits U.S. merchants to establish minimum purchase amounts of no more than $10 for credit card purchases, provided that the merchants do not discriminate between networks or issuers. Federal government agencies and institutions of higher learning are also permitted to establish maximum amounts for credit card purchases provided they do not discriminate between networks or issuers. As a result of this law, customers may be incentivized by merchants to move away from the use of charge and credit card products to other forms of payment, such as debit, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed by merchants seeking to overturn some of the existing state laws in the United States banning credit card surcharges. In the EU, new, sweeping regulatory changes in the card payment sector, including the introduction of price regulation, the elimination of honor-all-cards and “anti-steering” rules, and requirements on granting access to our network, among other important changes, moved forward significantly during 2014 and are now nearly final. For a description of certain of the proposals and their potential impacts on us, see “Global Network & Merchant Services — Regulation” above. These and other potential or proposed legislative and regulatory changes could significantly limit our flexibility to compete with the more entrenched bankcard networks and negatively impact the discount revenue derived from our business in the EU as a result of downward pressure on the discount rate from anticipated decreases in competitor pricing in connection with the proposed caps on interchange fees. We will also be required to change certain of our business practices, including contractual provisions relating to card acceptance by merchants, and alter our business relationships in the EU, including arrangements with GNS partners, which could result in an adverse impact on our Cards-in-force and transaction volumes. The proposed legislation also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The impact of the evolving regulatory environment on our business and operations, including in connection with the matters discussed above, depends upon a number of factors including final implementing regulations, guidance and interpretations of regulatory agencies, supervisory actions and priorities, the actions of our competitors and other marketplace participants, and the behavior of consumers. The evolving regulatory environment may increase our compliance costs or result in a reduction of transactions processed on our networks or merchant discount revenues from such transactions, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Increased regulatory focus could also require us to limit or change our business practices or product offerings, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, limit fees we can charge for services, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 64 Table of Contents If we are not able to invest successfully in, and compete at the leading edge of, technological developments across all our businesses, or to protect our intellectual property, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected. Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. In order to compete in our industry, we need to continue to invest in business process and technology advances across all areas of our business, including in transaction processing, data management and analysis, customer interactions and communications, prepaid products, alternative payment mechanisms and risk management and compliance systems. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our Cards, networks and other services. Because of evolving payments technologies and the competitive landscape, we may not, among other things, be successful in increasing or maintaining our share of online spending and enhancing our Card Members’ digital experience, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We also expect increased regulatory and legal scrutiny and requirements with respect to data privacy and protection in connection with these new technologies. Our ability to develop, acquire or access competitive technologies or business processes on acceptable terms may be limited by patent rights that third parties, including competitors and potential competitors, may assert. In addition, our ability to adopt new technologies may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance to change from Card Members or merchants, by the complexity of our systems or by intellectual property rights of third parties. We rely on a variety of measures to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, including copyrights, trademarks, patents and controls on access and distribution. These measures may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights and a resulting loss of competitive advantage. In addition, competitors or other third parties may allege that our systems, processes or technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. Given the complex, rapidly changing and competitive technological and business environment in which we operate, and the potential risks and uncertainties of intellectual property-related litigation, a future assertion of an infringement claim against us could cause us to lose significant revenues, incur significant license, royalty or technology development expenses, or pay significant monetary damages. Regulation in the areas of privacy, information security and data protection could increase our costs and affect or limit how we collect and/or use personal information and our business opportunities. We are subject to various applicable privacy, data protection and information security laws, including requirements concerning security breach notification, and we could be negatively impacted by them. For example, in the United States, certain of our businesses may be subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and implementing regulations and guidance. Among other things, the GLBA imposes certain limitations on the ability of financial institutions to share consumers’ nonpublic personal information with nonaffiliated third parties; requires that financial institutions provide certain disclosures to consumers about their data collection, sharing and security practices and affords customers the right to “opt out” of the institution’s disclosure of their personal financial information to nonaffiliated third parties (with limited exceptions); and requires financial institutions to develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities, and the sensitivity of customer information processed by the financial institution. For more information on the GLBA and various state laws, see “Privacy and Data Protection” under “Supervision and Regulation” above. In the EU, the European Data Protection Directive, which obligates the controller and/or processor of an individual’s personal data to, among other things, take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data, has been implemented through local laws in Member States. As these laws are interpreted throughout the EU, compliance costs are increasing, particularly in the context of ensuring that adequate data protection and data transfer mechanisms are in place. 65 Table of Contents Various U.S. federal banking regulators, states and foreign jurisdictions have enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory and/or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Many of these requirements also apply broadly to merchants that accept our Cards and our business partners. In many countries that have yet to impose data security breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to encourage voluntary notification. Recent account data compromise events at large retailers, as well as the disclosure of the monitoring activities by certain governmental agencies, have resulted in heightened legislative and regulatory focus on privacy, data protection and information security around the world. Legislators and/or regulators in the United States and other countries in which we operate are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, data protection and information security laws that potentially could have significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer and/or employee information, and some of our current or planned business activities. New legislation or regulation could increase our costs of compliance and business operations and could reduce revenues from certain business initiatives. Moreover, the application of existing laws to technology developments can be uncertain, increasing compliance risk. Compliance with current or future privacy, data protection and information security laws to which we are subject affecting customer and/or employee data could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to fully exploit our closed-loop capability or provide certain products and services, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws could result in potentially significant regulatory and/or governmental investigations and/or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions and damage to our reputation and our brand. In recent years, there has been increasing enforcement activity in the areas of privacy, data protection and information security in various countries in which we operate. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our executive officers and other key personnel, and the loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and other key personnel. Our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. Our senior management team is relatively small and we believe we are in a critical period of competition in the financial services and payments industry. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. As further described in “Supervision and Regulation — Compensation Practices” above, our compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve and the compensation practices of our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries are subject to review and oversight by the FDIC and the OCC. As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices, which may or may not affect our competitors, by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or other regulators worldwide. These limitations, including limitations on any incentive compensation policies pursuant to Dodd-Frank, could further affect our ability to attract and retain our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business. Tax and abandoned property legislative initiatives or assessments by governmental authorities could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in jurisdictions throughout the world. As such, we remit a variety of taxes and fees to various governmental authorities, including U.S. federal, state and local governments and various foreign jurisdictions. The taxes and fees remitted by us are subject to review and audit by the applicable governmental authorities, which could result in liability for additional assessments. In addition, we are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property (escheat) laws that require us to turn over to certain governmental authorities the property of others held 66 Table of Contents by us (such as uncashed stored-value products like Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products) that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time. The laws and regulations related to tax and unclaimed property matters are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although management believes our positions are reasonable, various authorities may challenge our positions or apply existing laws and regulations more broadly, which may potentially result in a significant increase in liabilities for taxes, unclaimed property and interest in excess of accrued liabilities. Legislative initiatives may be proposed from time to time, such as proposals for fundamental tax reform in the United States or multi-jurisdictional actions to address “base erosion and profit shifting” by multinational companies, which may impact our effective tax rate and could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities. Legislation has been proposed, and in some states enacted, to establish shorter escheatment periods for travelers checks and/or prepaid cards, often with retroactive application. We have challenged, and intend to continue to challenge, what we believe are significant defects in these laws, which can have a significant impact on our Travelers Cheques and prepaid cards business in the states in which they are enacted, as well as increase the estimated liability recorded in our financial statements with respect to uncashed stored-value products. Business Risks Our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the payments industry. The payments industry is highly competitive, and we compete with a wide variety of financial payment products, including charge, credit and debit card networks and issuers, paper-based transactions (e.g., cash and checks), bank transfer models (e.g., wire transfers and ACH), as well as evolving alternative payment mechanisms, systems and products, such as aggregators and web-based payment platforms (e.g., PayPal, Square and Amazon), wireless payment technologies (including using mobile telephone networks to carry out transactions), digital currencies, prepaid systems, gift cards and other systems linked to payment cards. We are the fourth largest general-purpose card network on a global basis based on purchase volume, behind Visa, MasterCard and China UnionPay. We believe Visa and MasterCard are larger than we are in most countries. As a result, competitive card issuers and acquirers on the Visa and MasterCard networks may be able to benefit from the dominant position, scale, resources, marketing and pricing of Visa and MasterCard. We are also subject to increasing pricing pressure from our competitors. In addition, some of our competitors have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, including larger cash reserves, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising, marketing or cross-selling strategies to achieve broader brand recognition, cobrand card programs or merchant acceptance than we have. We may not continue to be able to compete effectively against these threats or respond or adapt to changes in consumer spending habits as effectively as our competitors. Our competitors may also be more efficient in introducing innovative products, programs and services on different platforms than we are. Internationally, competition remains fierce, and as a result, we may not be successful in accelerating our growth outside the United States through proprietary consumer, small business and corporate products, GNS partners and alternative payment vehicles such as prepaid services. New technologies, including continuing advancements in the areas of proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards) and remote payment technologies (such as cloud-based accounts), and evolving consumer behavior are rapidly changing the way people interact with each other and transact business all around the world. In this connection, traditional and non-traditional competitors such as mobile, technology and telecommunications companies and aggregators are working to deliver digital and mobile payment services for both consumers and merchants. Our competitors may be able to innovate faster than we can, and new 67 Table of Contents technologies may further increase the competitive pressures by enabling our competitors to offer more efficient or lower-cost services. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to continue to keep pace with innovation, manage the shift to mobile, device-based and multi-channel commerce or improve the quality of the Card Member experience, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Spending on our Cards and prepaid accounts could continue to be impacted by increasing consumer usage of debit cards issued on competitive networks. In the United States, alternative payment vehicles that seek to redirect customers to payment systems based on ACH continue to emerge and grow, and existing debit networks also continue to expand both on- and off-line and are making efforts to develop online PIN functionality, which could further reduce the relative use of charge and credit cards online. We also compete with companies that market open-loop prepaid debit cards through retail and online distribution, banks and other providers that offer demand deposit and savings accounts, other issuers of debit cards, check cashers, money order services, and large retailers or retailer coalitions who are seeking to integrate more financial services into their product offerings. We anticipate increased competition from traditional and alternative financial services providers that are often well-positioned to service customers, including those previously excluded or poorly served by the traditional financial system, and that may wish to develop their own prepaid card programs. The increased desire of banks, retailers and alternative financial services providers to develop and promote prepaid card programs could have an adverse effect on our prepaid offerings, such as American Express Serve. To the extent alternative payment mechanisms, systems and products continue to successfully expand in the online and mobile payments space, our discount revenues and our ability to access transaction data through our closed-loop network could be negatively impacted. If we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively grow in areas such as mobile and online payments, fee-based services and emerging technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. Many of our growth initiatives involve new areas for us and we may not be successful in executing our strategy. Our failure to drive adoption of new products and services, including new technology and payment options such as the prepaid products and services that we offer through our Enterprise Growth Group, would negatively impact our future growth. To the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we may face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with relevant customers, regulators and industry participants, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. We may face additional compliance and regulatory risk to the extent that we expand into new business areas and we may need to dedicate more expense, time and resources to comply with regulatory requirements than our competitors, particularly those that are not regulated financial institutions. In addition, companies that control access to consumer and merchant payment method preferences through digital wallets, mobile applications or at the point of sale could choose not to accept or could suppress use of our products or could restrict our access to our customers and transaction data. Such companies could also require payments from us to participate in such digital wallets and applications, impacting our profitability on transactions. Laws and business practices that favor local competitors, require card transactions to be routed over domestic networks or prohibit or limit foreign ownership of certain businesses could slow our growth in international regions. Further, expanding our service offerings, adding customer acquisition channels and forming new partnerships could have higher cost structures than our current arrangements, adversely impact our average discount rate or dilute our brand. Regulators have recently put forward various proposals that may impact our businesses, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose taxes or fees on certain financial institutions. These or similar proposals, as well as the outcomes of litigation, which may not apply to all of our competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. 68 Table of Contents We face continued intense competitive pressure that may impact the prices we charge merchants that accept our Cards for payment for goods and services. Unlike our competitors in the payments industry that rely on high revolving credit balances to drive profits, our business model is focused on Card Member spending. Discount revenue, which represents generally fees charged to merchants when Card Members use their Cards to purchase goods and services on our network, is primarily driven by billed business volumes and is our largest single revenue source. We have been under increasing market pressure, including pressure created by regulatory-mandated reductions to competitors’ pricing, to reduce merchant discount rates and undertake other repricing initiatives. We also face pressure from competitors that have other sources of income or lower expense bases that can make their pricing more attractive to key business partners and merchants. Merchants are also able to negotiate incentives and pricing concessions from us as a condition to accepting our Cards. As merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives and/or concessions we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives. In addition, differentiated payment models from non-traditional players in the alternative payments space and the regulatory and litigation environment could pose challenges to our traditional payment model and adversely impact our average discount rate. Some merchants also continue to invest in their own payment solutions, such as CurrentC on the Merchant Customer Exchange, using both traditional and new technology platforms. If merchants are able to drive broad consumer adoption and usage, it could adversely impact our merchant discount rate and billed business volumes. A continuing priority of ours is to drive greater and differentiated value to our merchants, which, if not successful, could negatively impact our discount revenue and financial results. If we continue to experience a decline in the average merchant discount rate, we will need to find ways to offset the financial impact by increasing billed business volumes, increasing other sources of revenue, such as fee-based revenue or interest income, or both. We may not succeed in sustaining merchant discount rates or offsetting the impact of declining merchant discount rates, particularly in the current regulatory environment, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability, and therefore our ability to invest in innovation and in value-added services to merchants and Card Members. An increasing prevalence of surcharging by merchants could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In certain countries, such as Australia and certain Member States in the EU, merchants are permitted by law to surcharge card purchases. The number of countries in the EU that permit surcharging could increase as the European Parliament and the European Council meet with the Commission to finalize changes to EU law on surcharging, as discussed in “Global Network & Merchant Services — Regulation” above. We cannot predict the final form, or effects on us, of this proposed legislation. In Australia, we have seen selective, but increasing, merchant surcharging on American Express Cards in certain merchant categories and, in some cases, on a basis that is greater than that applied to cards issued on the bankcard networks, which is known as differential surcharging. In December 2013, we announced the proposed settlement of U.S. merchant class action lawsuits under which we would change our U.S. Card acceptance agreement provisions to permit merchants to surcharge American Express charge and credit Card transactions no more than the surcharge on other charge and credit cards or other forms of payment the merchant accepts (other than cash, checks, debit cards or inter-bank transfers). While we continue to believe surcharging is not a customer-friendly practice, this proposed settlement provides merchants with additional flexibility to surcharge American Express charge and credit Cards on an equal basis with other charge and credit cards, even if the merchant does not surcharge debit cards. We will not be required to put these contract changes into effect any sooner than the date that the settlement agreement 69 Table of Contents receives final approval, including any appeal period. If the settlement receives final approval, these contract changes, combined with U.S. merchants’ options under Dodd-Frank to offer discounts or incentives to induce payment by debit cards, could shift spending from American Express charge and credit Cards to debit cards. For more detail on the proposed settlement, see “Legal Proceedings” below. If surcharging becomes widespread, American Express Cards and credit and charge cards generally could become less desirable to consumers, which could result in a decrease in Cards-in-force and transaction volumes. The impact could vary depending on the manner in which a surcharge is levied and whether surcharges are levied upon all payment cards, whether debit cards are excluded, or whether the amount of the surcharge varies depending on the card, network, acquirer or issuer. Surcharging could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly to the extent surcharging disproportionately impacts American Express Card Members. We may not be successful in our efforts to promote Card usage through our marketing, promotion, merchant acceptance and rewards programs, or to effectively control the costs of such programs, both of which may impact our profitability. Our business is characterized by the high level of spending by our Card Members. Increasing consumer and business spending on our payment services products, particularly credit and charge Cards and prepaid products, and growth in Card lending balances, depend in part on our ability to develop and issue new or enhanced Card and prepaid products and increase revenues from such products. It also depends on our continued expansion of merchant acceptance of our Cards. If the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. One of the ways in which we attract new Card Members, reduce Card Member attrition and seek to retain or capture a greater share of customers’ total spending is through our Membership Rewards program, as well as other Card Member benefits. Any significant change in, or failure by management to reasonably estimate, actual redemptions of Membership Rewards points and associated redemption costs could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, we may not be able to cost-effectively manage and expand Card Member benefits, including containing the growth of marketing, promotion and rewards expenses and Card Member services expenses. Our prospects for growth also depend on our ability to innovate by offering new payment services products. If customers do not perceive our new offerings as providing significant value, they may fail to accept our new products and services, which would negatively impact our operating revenues. In addition, many credit card issuers have instituted rewards and cobrand programs that are similar to ours, and issuers may in the future institute programs and services that are more attractive than ours. If we continue to increase our investments in marketing, promotion and rewards programs, we will need to find ways to offset the financial impact by increasing payments volume, increasing other areas of revenues such as fee-based revenues or both. We may not succeed in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. Our brand and reputation are key assets of our Company, and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. Our brand and its attributes are key assets of ours, and we believe our continued success depends on our ability to preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brand. Our ability to attract and retain consumer and small business Card Members and corporate clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business practices, merchant acceptance, financial condition and other subjective qualities. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters — even if related to seemingly isolated incidents — could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation among existing and potential Card 70 Table of Contents Members and corporate clients, which could make it difficult for us to attract new Card Members and customers and maintain existing ones. Negative public opinion could also result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities or circumstances, including card practices, regulatory compliance and the use and protection of customer information, and from actions taken by regulators or others in response to such conduct. Social media channels can also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brand. Our brand and reputation may also be harmed by actions taken by third parties that are outside our control. For example, any shortcoming of a third-party vendor or GNS partner that issues Cards or acquires merchants on the American Express network may be attributed by Card Members and merchants to us, thus damaging our reputation and brand value. The lack of acceptance or suppression of Card usage by merchants can also negatively impact perceptions of our brand and our products, lower overall transaction volume and increase the attractiveness of other payments systems. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. Furthermore, as a corporation with headquarters and operations located in the United States, a negative perception of the United States arising from its political or other positions could harm the perception of our company and our brand. Although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. If we cannot successfully execute on our strategy, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted. We may not be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. These strategic initiatives are designed to improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: • Increasing penetration in payments and merchant coverage • Continuing to expand internationally through proprietary and GNS offerings • Expanding our presence in the digital payments space, including online and mobile channels • Growing our loyalty coalition business, Loyalty Partner, and our newer payment products, including American Express Serve and Bluebird The process of developing new products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. In addition, we may underestimate the time and expense we must invest in new products and services before they generate material revenues, if at all. We also continue to pursue a disciplined expense-management strategy, including reengineering operations. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to control the growth of expenses in the future, particularly as expenses incurred in our foreign entities are subject to foreign exchange volatility. In addition, regulatory compliance and legal and related costs are difficult to predict or control given the current regulatory and litigation environment. As cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, we may also be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or strengthen our protective security measures, investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities of our information systems and infrastructure or invest in new technology designed to mitigate security risks. If we are unable to successfully manage our expenses, our financial results will be negatively affected. Moreover, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs of investing in our businesses. These investments may not be as productive as we expect or at all. 71 Table of Contents A significant disruption or breach in the security of our information technology systems or an increase in fraudulent activity using our Cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and significant legal, regulatory and financial exposure and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit Cards. We and other third parties process, transmit and store account information in connection with our charge and credit Cards and prepaid products, and in the normal course of our business, we collect, analyze and retain significant volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers and employees. Information security risks for large financial institutions like us have generally increased in recent years. We have identified four categories of “threat actors” that we currently believe pose the greatest risk, namely cyber criminals, nation state sponsored groups, determined insiders and “hacktivists” or social objectors. These threat actors are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture various types of information relating to Card Members’ accounts, including Membership Rewards accounts, to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft, to disrupt information technology systems, and to expose and exploit potential security and privacy vulnerabilities in corporate systems and websites. As outsourcing and specialization of functions within the payments industry increase, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our Cards and there is a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties, including merchants that accept our Cards and our business partners, may be compromised, which could lead to unauthorized transactions on our Cards. We develop and maintain systems and processes to detect and prevent data breaches and fraudulent activity, but the development and maintenance of these systems are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies and regulatory requirements change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Despite our efforts, the possibility of data breaches, malicious social engineering and fraudulent or other malicious activities cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with each of these remain, including the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information). Our information technology systems, including our transaction authorization, clearing and settlement systems, may experience service disruptions or degradation because of technology malfunction, sudden increases in customer transaction volume, natural disasters, accidents, power outages, telecommunications failures, fraud, denial-of-service and other cyber-attacks, terrorism, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events. For example, we and other U.S. financial services providers have been the targets of distributed denial-of-service attacks from sophisticated third parties. Service disruptions could prevent access to our online services and account information, compromise company or customer data, and impede transaction processing and financial reporting. Inadequate infrastructure in lesser developed countries could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those countries. If our information technology systems experience a significant disruption or breach or if actual or perceived fraud levels or other illegal activities involving our Cards were to rise due to a data breach at a business partner, merchant or other market participant, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, it could lead to regulatory intervention (such as mandatory card reissuance), increased litigation and remediation costs, greater concerns of customers and/or business partners relating to the privacy and security of their data, and reputational and financial damage to our brand, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our Cards, and have a material adverse impact on our business. If such disruptions or breaches are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. Data breaches and other actual or perceived failures to maintain confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data may also negatively impact the assessment of the Company, TRS and its U.S. banking subsidiaries by banking regulators. Successful cyber-attacks or data breaches at other large financial institutions, large retailers or other market participants, whether or not we are impacted, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence that could 72 Table of Contents negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or the financial system in general, which could result in reduced use of our products and services. Although we have insurance against some cyber-risks and attacks, it may not be sufficient to offset the impact of a material loss event. We have agreements with business partners that represent a significant portion of our business. We are exposed to risks associated with these business partners, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, consolidations and alliances of our partners, and the possible obligation to make payments to our partners. We also face substantial and increasingly intense competition for partner relationships, which could result in a loss or renegotiation of these arrangements that could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. In the ordinary course of our business we enter into different types of contractual arrangements with business partners in a variety of industries. For example, we have partnered with Costco and Delta Air Lines, as well as many others globally, to offer cobranded cards for consumers and small businesses, and through our Membership Rewards program we have partnered with businesses in many industries, including the airline industry, to offer benefits to Card Member participants. Our cobrand portfolio accounted for less than 25 percent of our worldwide billed business for the year ended December 31, 2014 and less than 50 percent of our worldwide Card Member loans as of December 31, 2014. The volume of billed business and Card Member loans generated by our cobrand portfolio could decline significantly, including as a result of the termination of one or more cobrand arrangements. In addition, some of our cobrand arrangements provide that, upon expiration or termination, the cobrand partner may purchase or designate a third party to purchase the receivables generated with respect to its program, which could result in a significant decline in our Card Member loans outstanding. Competition for relationships with key business partners is very intense and there can be no assurance we will be able to grow or maintain these partner relationships. Establishing and retaining attractive cobrand card partnerships is particularly competitive among card issuers and networks as these partnerships typically have high-spending loyal customers. We face the risk that we could lose partner relationships, even after we have invested significant resources, time and expense in acquiring and developing the relationships, which could result in Card Member attrition or additional costs to retain Card Members. We also face the risk that existing relationships will be renegotiated with less favorable terms for us as competition for such relationships increases. The loss of business partners (whether by non-renewal at the end of the contract period or early termination) or the renegotiation of existing relationships with terms that are significantly worse for us could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. For example, we recently announced that our U.S. cobrand relationship with Costco, one of our two largest cobrand relationships, is set to end on March 31, 2016. For a discussion on Costco and our expectations regarding the impact, see pages 20-21 of our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. We were also unable to reach terms to renew our cobrand relationships with Costco in Canada and JetBlue recently. In addition, any publicity associated with the loss of any of our key business partners could harm our reputation, making it more difficult to attract and retain Card Members and merchants, and could lessen our negotiating power with our remaining and prospective business partners. We may be obligated to make or accelerate payments to certain business partners such as cobrand partners and merchants upon the occurrence of certain triggering events such as: (i) our filing for bankruptcy, (ii) our economic condition deteriorating such that our senior unsecured debt rating is downgraded significantly below investment grade by S&P and Moody’s, (iii) our ceasing to have a public debt rating, or (iv) a shortfall in certain performance levels. If we are not able to effectively manage these triggering events, we could unexpectedly have to make payments to these partners, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we have credit risk to certain cobrand partners relating to our prepayments for loyalty program points that may not be fully redeemed. We are also exposed to risk from bankruptcies, liquidations, insolvencies, financial distress, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events that may occur in any industry representing a significant portion of our billed business, which could negatively impact particular Card 73 Table of Contents products and services (and billed business generally) and our financial condition and results of operations. For example, we could be materially impacted if we were obligated to or elected to reimburse Card Members for products and services purchased from merchants that have ceased operations or stopped accepting our Cards. The airline industry, which represents a significant portion of our billed business, has undergone bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events in the past. The airline industry accounted for approximately 8 percent of our worldwide billed business for the year ended December 31, 2014. We have credit risk to the airline industry to the extent we protect Card Members against non-delivery of goods and services, such as where we have remitted payment to an airline for a Card Member purchase of tickets that have not yet been used or “flown.” If we are unable to collect the amount from the airline, we will bear the loss for the amount credited to the Card Member. Airlines are also some of the most important and valuable partners in our Membership Rewards program. If a participating airline merged with an airline that did not participate in Membership Rewards, the combined airline would have to determine whether or not to continue participation. Similarly, if one of our cobrand airline partners merged with an airline that had a competing cobrand card, the combined airline would have to determine which cobrand cards it would offer. Our largest airline cobrand portfolio, American Express’ Delta SkyMiles, accounted for approximately 6 percent of our worldwide billed business for the year ended December 31, 2014 and approximately 15 percent of worldwide Card Member loans as of December 31, 2014. If an airline determined to withdraw from Membership Rewards or other benefits programs offered to Card Members, change the terms under which it participates in these programs or cease participating as an American Express cobrand partner, whether as the result of a merger or otherwise, such as the withdrawal of American Airlines in 2014 from our Airport Club Access program for Centurion and Platinum Card Members, our business could be adversely affected. For additional information relating to the general risks related to the airline industry, see “Risk Management — Institutional Credit Risk — Exposure to the Airline Industry” on page 52 of our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established policies and procedures intended to identify, monitor and manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, market risk, asset liability risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance risk, model risk and reputational risk. See “Risk Management” on pages 50-55 of our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders for a discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify, monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses. Although we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future, these policies and procedures, as well as our risk management techniques such as our hedging strategies, may not be fully effective. There may also be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. As regulations and markets in which we operate continue to evolve, our risk management framework may not always keep sufficient pace with those changes. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. Although we have a governance framework for model development and independent model validation, the modeling methodology could be erroneous or the models could be misused. If our decisions are based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports, we may face adverse consequences, such as financial loss, poor business and strategic decision-making, or damage to our reputation. In addition, some decisions our regulators make, including those related to our capital distribution plans, may be adversely impacted if they perceive the quality of our models to be insufficient. 74 Table of Contents We must effectively manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, settlement with GNS partners, merchant and consumer bankruptcies, delinquencies and other credit trends that can affect spending on Card products, debt payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses that accept our Card products. Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. We are exposed to both individual credit risk, principally from consumer and small business Card Member receivables and loans, and institutional credit risk from merchants, GNS partners, GCP clients and treasury and investment counterparties. Third parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Country, regional and political risks can contribute to credit risk. Our ability to assess creditworthiness may be impaired if the criteria or models we use to manage our credit risk become less predictive of future losses, which could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future write-offs and may require us to increase our reserve for loan losses. Although delinquencies and charge-offs declined in 2014, we believe we are experiencing historical lows in these rates and they will be increasing over time. Higher write-off rates and an increase in our reserve for loan losses adversely affect our profitability and the performance of our securitizations, and may increase our cost of funds. In addition, our ability to recover amounts that we have previously written off may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. Although we make estimates to provide for credit losses in our outstanding portfolio of loans and receivables, these estimates may not be accurate. In addition, the information we use in managing our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete. Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to foresee or detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the credit risks of our customers. In addition, our ability to manage credit risk may be adversely affected by legal or regulatory changes (such as bankruptcy laws and minimum payment regulations). Increased credit risk, whether resulting from underestimating the credit losses inherent in our portfolio of loans and receivables, deteriorating economic conditions, changes in our mix of business or otherwise, could require us to increase our provision for losses and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We must also effectively manage market and asset-liability risks to which we are exposed. Market risk represents the loss in value of portfolios and financial instruments due to adverse changes in market variables, which could negatively impact our financial condition. We are exposed to market risk from interest rates in our Card business and in our investment portfolios. Changes in the interest rates at which we borrow and lend money affect the value of our assets and liabilities. If the rate of interest we pay on our borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans, our net interest yield, and consequently our net income, could fall. As of December 31, 2014, a hypothetical 1.0 percent increase in interest rates would have resulted in a decrease to our annual net interest income of approximately $212 million. We must also accurately estimate the fair value of certain of our assets and our liabilities and, in particular, those investments that are not readily marketable, including our investment portfolio and derivative instruments. Additionally, we must effectively manage liquidity risk to which we are exposed. Liquidity risk is defined as the inability to access cash and equivalents needed to meet business requirements and satisfy our obligations. If we are unsuccessful in managing our liquidity risk, we may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit financial flexibility; or we may be too illiquid, which could result in financial distress during a liquidity event. For additional information regarding our management of liquidity risk, see “Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital” above. 75 Table of Contents Finally, we must also manage the operational and compliance risks to which we are exposed. We consider operational risk to be the risk of not achieving business objectives due to inadequate or failed processes or information systems, poor data quality, human error or the external environment (i.e., natural disasters). Operational risk includes, among others, the risk that employee error or intentional misconduct could result in a material financial misstatement; a failure to monitor an outsource partner’s compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements; or a failure to adequately monitor and control access to data in our systems we grant to third-party service providers. As processes are changed, or new products and services are introduced, we may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. Compliance risk arises from the failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules, regulations and internal policies and procedures. Operational and compliance risks can expose us to reputational risks as well as fines, civil money penalties or payment of damages and can lead to diminished business opportunities and diminished ability to expand key operations. Our reengineering and other cost control initiatives may not prove successful, and we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended. Many factors can influence the amount of our expenses, as well as how quickly they may increase. Our ongoing investments, which may be necessary to maintain a competitive business, may increase our expenses. We have regularly undertaken, and are currently undertaking, a variety of efforts to reengineer our business operations in order to achieve cost savings and other benefits (including the reinvestment of such savings in key areas such as marketing, promotion, rewards and infrastructure), enhance revenue-generating opportunities and improve our operating expense-to-revenue ratio both in the short-term and over time. These efforts include cost management, structural and strategic measures, outsourcing functions, moving internal and external functions to internet and mobile channels and planned staff reductions. If we do not successfully achieve these efforts in a timely manner or if the actions taken ultimately come at the expense of operational efficiency or compliance and control processes, we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended. Failure to achieve or capitalize on these benefits or successfully manage our expenses could have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to achieve our previously announced financial targets. We may not be successful in realizing the benefits associated with our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and investment activity, and our business and reputation could be negatively impacted. We have acquired a number of businesses, including our acquisitions of Revolution Money, Accertify and Loyalty Partner, and made a number of strategic investments. We may also evaluate other potential transactions. These transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, value potential investment or acquisition opportunities accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those opportunities, and complete proposed acquisitions and investments. Our failure to successfully integrate acquired companies, businesses or technologies into our existing operations could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or investment, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. As discussed under “Global Commercial Services” above, we created a new joint venture for our Global Business Travel operations in 2014. There can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the underlying assumptions related to the joint venture transaction, including accelerating the transformation and growth of the corporate travel business, creating additional investment capacity and enhancing its suite of products and services. We and the GBT JV face the risk of potential loss of key customers, vendors and other key business partners as a result of the joint venture transaction. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with the joint venture transaction could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction, incur unanticipated liabilities and adversely affect our operations. Joint ventures and minority investments inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational and/or compliance risks associated with 76 Table of Contents the joint venture or minority investment. In addition, we may be dependent on joint venture partners, controlling shareholders or management who may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours. Business decisions or other actions or omissions of the joint venture partner, controlling shareholders or management may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us and otherwise damage our reputation and brand. An inability to accept or maintain deposits due to market demand or regulatory constraints could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business. As a source of funding, our U.S. banking subsidiaries accept deposits from individuals through third-party brokerage networks as well as directly from consumers through American Express Personal Savings. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $43.3 billion in total U.S. retail deposits. We face strong competition in the deposit markets, particularly as to brokerage networks. Aggressive pricing throughout the industry may adversely affect the retention of existing balances and the cost-efficient acquisition of new deposit funds, and may affect our growth and profitability. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted. Customers could close their accounts or reduce balances or deposits in favor of products and services offered by competitors for other reasons. These shifts, which could be rapid, could result from general dissatisfaction with our products or services, including concerns over pricing, online security or our reputation. Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits also is dependent on capital levels of our U.S. banking subsidiaries. The FDIA generally prohibits a bank, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless (1) it is well capitalized or (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A significant amount of our outstanding U.S. retail deposits has been raised through third-party brokerage networks, and such deposits are considered brokered deposits for bank regulatory purposes. A bank that is less than well capitalized generally may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including direct-to-consumer deposits, in excess of 75 basis points over the national rate published by the FDIC unless the FDIC determines that the bank is operating in a high-rate area. An adequately capitalized insured depository institution may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless it has applied for and been granted a waiver of this prohibition by the FDIC. Undercapitalized depository institutions may not solicit deposits by offering interest rates that are significantly higher than the prevailing rates of interest on insured deposits in such institution’s normal market areas or in the market area in which such deposits would otherwise be accepted. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is well capitalized (provided such bank is not subject to a capital maintenance provision within a written agreement, consent order, order to cease and desist, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by its federal regulator). If a depository institution’s federal regulator determines that it is in an unsafe or unsound condition or is engaging in unsafe or unsound banking practices, the regulator may reclassify a well-capitalized institution as adequately capitalized, require an adequately capitalized institution to comply with certain restrictions as if it were undercapitalized, and require an undercapitalized institution take certain actions applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions. While Centurion Bank and AEBFSB were considered “well capitalized” for these purposes as of December 31, 2014, there can be no assurance that they will continue to meet this definition. The New Capital Rules, when fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. Additionally, our regulators can adjust the requirements to be well capitalized at any time and have authority to place limitations on our deposit businesses, including the interest rate we pay on deposits. An inability to attract or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business. 77 Table of Contents We rely on third-party providers of various computer systems, platforms and other services integral to the operations of our businesses. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. We operate a service network around the world. In order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors many of the computer systems and other services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses. A significant amount of this outsourcing occurs in developing countries. We also rely on third parties to interact with our customers, including through social media platforms and mobile technologies. We are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. A failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider’s compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in economic and reputational harm to us. There is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised, which could significantly harm our business even if the attack or breach does not impact our systems. In addition, the management of multiple third-party vendors increases our operational complexity and decreases our control. It is also possible that the cost efficiencies of certain outsourcings will decrease as the demand for these services increases around the world. Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers, merchants, processors, aggregators, GNS partners and other third parties for the timely transmission of accurate information across our global network. If a service provider or other third party fails to provide the data quality, communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or other cybersecurity incidents or any other reason, the failure could interrupt or compromise the quality of our services to customers. See “A significant disruption or breach in the security of our information technology systems or an increase in fraudulent activity using our Cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and significant legal, regulatory and financial exposure and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit Cards” above. Our business is subject to the effects of geopolitical events, weather, natural disasters and other conditions. Geopolitical events, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, severe weather conditions, health pandemics, intrusion into or degradation of our infrastructure by hackers and other catastrophic events can have a negative effect on our business. Because of our proximity to the World Trade Center, our headquarters were damaged as a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Similar events or other disasters or catastrophic events in the future could have a negative effect on our businesses and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. Because we derive a portion of our revenues from travel-related spending, our business will be sensitive to safety concerns, and thus is likely to decline during periods in which travelers become concerned about safety issues or when travel might involve health-related risks. In addition, disruptions in air travel and other forms of travel caused by such events can result in the payment of claims under travel interruption insurance policies that we offer and, if such disruptions to travel are prolonged, they can materially adversely affect overall travel-related spending. If the conditions described above (or similar ones) result in widespread or lengthy disruptions to travel, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Card Member spending may also be negatively impacted in areas affected by natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The impact of such events on the overall economy may also adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements We have made various statements in this Report that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may also be made in our other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, in our press releases and in other documents. In addition, from time to time, we, through our management, may make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those identified above and on pages 64-66 of the 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such 78 Table of Contents statements. The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “optimistic,” “intend,” “plan,” “aim,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “likely” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We caution you that the risk factors described above and in the 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders are not exclusive. There may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 