Risk Factors” below. Heightened Prudential Requirements for Large Bank Holding Companies As discussed above, Dodd-Frank created a new systemic risk oversight body, the FSOC, to identify, monitor and address potential threats to U.S. financial stability. Additionally, Dodd-Frank imposes heightened prudential requirements on bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, including the Company, and requires the Federal Reserve to establish prudential standards for such large bank holding companies that are more stringent than those applicable to other bank holding companies, including standards for risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits, liquidity, risk management requirements, resolution plans (referred to as “living wills”), stress tests, early redemption, credit exposure reporting and concentration. The Federal Reserve has discretionary authority to establish additional prudential standards on its own or at the FSOC’s recommendation regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits and otherwise as it deems appropriate. Because the Federal Reserve may, on its own volition or in response to a recommendation by the FSOC, tailor the application of these enhanced prudential standards to specific companies, including the Company, the ultimate impact of these enhanced standards on the Company is not certain. In October 2012, the Federal Reserve issued rules relating to supervisory and company-run stress tests for large bank holding companies, discussed below under “Stress Testing.” With respect to the remaining enhanced prudential standards, in January 2012, the Federal Reserve published a notice of proposed rulemaking to implement many of the heightened prudential requirements, which would require the following: • Enhanced Capital and Leverage Requirements: See “Basel III” below. • Enhanced Liquidity Standards: The Federal Reserve’s notice of proposed rulemaking states that the enhanced liquidity standards will be addressed in “stages.” As the first stage of this undertaking, the proposed rules focus on prudential steps to manage liquidity risk, which comprehensively detail liquidity risk management responsibilities for boards of directors and senior management, and would require: – maintenance of a liquidity buffer, consisting of assets meeting certain standards, that is sufficient to meet projected net cash outflows and projected loss or impairment of existing funding sources for 30 days over a range of liquidity stress scenarios; – production of comprehensive cash flow projections and identification and quantification of discrete and cumulative cash flow mismatches; – regular stress testing of cash flow projections over various time horizons; – establishment and maintenance of a contingency funding plan that sets out strategies for addressing liquidity needs during liquidity stress events; – establishment and maintenance of limits on potential sources of liquidity risk, including concentrations of funding, maturity of specified liabilities within various time horizons, and off-balance sheet exposures that could create funding needs during liquidity stress events; and 35 Table of Contents – variety of monitoring requirements. The Federal Reserve noted that it would “implement the second stage” of a regulatory liquidity framework for bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in consolidated assets, or a subset of such bank holding companies, through future proposals that would require such bank holding companies to satisfy specific liquidity requirements derived from or consistent with the international liquidity standards incorporated into the Basel III framework (discussed below). • Single Counterparty Credit Exposure Limits: Under the proposed rule, beginning October 1, 2013, bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets generally would be subject to a limit on aggregate net credit exposure with any single unaffiliated counterparty equal to 25% of capital stock and surplus. • Enhanced Risk Management Requirements: Under the proposed rule, bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets would be required to establish a dedicated risk committee reporting directly to the company’s board of directors, comprised of members of the bank holding company’s board of directors, which would document, review and approve the enterprise-wide risk management practices of the company. The risk committee would be required to have an appropriate number of independent directors, would be required to have at least one risk management expert and would be required to oversee the operation of an enterprise-wide risk management framework commensurate with the company’s capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, size and other appropriate risk-related factors, and would be subject to certain governance provisions set forth in the proposed rule. Such bank holding companies, including the Company, would also be required to appoint a Chief Risk Officer. Because the proposed rule is not final, the ultimate impact of these measures on us is not certain. Dodd-Frank also mandates that certain expenses of the Office of Financial Research, which include, among other things, the operating expenses of the FSOC and certain expenses of the FDIC, be funded through assessments on bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as the Company, and certain other non-bank financial companies supervised by the Federal Reserve. In May 2012, the U.S. Treasury issued a rule setting forth the manner in which these assessments would be made. Under this rule, the total of the covered expenses will be distributed pro rata (based on consolidated assets) among bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets. Stress Testing In October 2012, the Federal Reserve issued rules relating to supervisory and company-run stress tests for large bank holding companies. These rules require analyses of certain large bank holding companies to evaluate whether the companies have sufficient capital on a total consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions (so-called “stress tests”). These rules implement a key portion of the enhanced prudential requirements of Dodd-Frank and include the following: • Supervisory Stress Testing: The Federal Reserve must conduct annual stress tests of bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets. Under this rule, the stress tests use a minimum of three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve (baseline, adverse and severely adverse), and be based on methodologies and data that the Federal Reserve will make available to companies no later than November 15 of each year. A summary of results of individual stress tests will be made public by the Federal Reserve on a company-specific basis. • Company Stress Testing: Bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets and that participated in the 2009 Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, such as the Company, are also required to conduct a similar stress test on a semiannual basis. A summary of the results of each of these tests must be publicly disclosed. Dodd-Frank requires the other federal bank regulators to issue regulations that are consistent with the stress test regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, which would ultimately apply to Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. In October 2012, the FDIC and the OCC issued rules to implement the annual company stress testing requirements that would be applicable to Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, respectively. The Federal Reserve applies its stress tests rules and its capital planning requirements, discussed in “Capital Planning” below, on a consolidated basis. 36 Table of Contents Capital Planning Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including the Company, are required to develop and maintain a so-called “capital plan,” and to submit the capital plan to the Federal Reserve for review. The capital plan must cover a “planning horizon” of at least nine quarters (beginning with the quarter preceding the submission of the plan) and include the following components: • an assessment of the bank holding company’s expected uses and sources of capital over the planning horizon that accounts for the bank holding company’s size, complexity, risk profile and scope of operations, and under expected and stressful conditions according to scenarios developed by the bank holding company and the Federal Reserve; • a detailed description of the bank holding company’s process for assessing capital adequacy, including how it will, under expected and stressful conditions, maintain capital commensurate with its risks, above the minimum regulatory ratios, and to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary depository institutions, and sufficient to continue operations by maintaining steady access to funding, meeting obligations to creditors and other counterparties and continuing to serve as a credit intermediary; • the bank holding company’s capital policy; and • a discussion of any expected changes to the bank holding company’s business. Each capital plan must consider a minimum of four planning scenarios, including separate baseline and stressed scenarios developed by the bank holding company and the Federal Reserve. The stressed scenario developed by the Federal Reserve for the 2013 process is designed to represent an outcome that, in the opinion of the Federal Reserve, is unlikely, but could occur if the U.S. economy were to experience a deep recession while at the same time economic activity in other major economies were also to contract significantly. In addition to other limitations, our ability to make any capital distributions (including dividends and share repurchases) is contingent on the Federal Reserve’s approval or non-objection to our capital plan. Likewise, the Federal Reserve may limit our ability to take any capital actions should the Company fail to include any intended action in its capital plan. A bank holding company’s board of directors, or a designated committee thereof, is required, at least annually, to review the “robustness” of the bank holding company’s process for assessing capital adequacy, ensure that any deficiencies are remedied and approve the capital plan. In its review of the capital plan, the Federal Reserve will consider the plan’s comprehensiveness, the reasonableness of its assumptions and analysis, and the bank holding company’s methodologies for reviewing the robustness of the capital adequacy process and ability to maintain capital above minimum regulatory ratios under expected and stressful conditions throughout the planning horizon. Based on its review, the Federal Reserve will either object or not object to the capital plan. The Federal Reserve has broad authority to object to capital plans, and to require bank holding companies to revise and resubmit their capital plans for approval. Bank holding companies are also subject to an ongoing requirement to revise and resubmit their capital plans upon the occurrence of certain events specified by rule, or when required by the Federal Reserve. If a bank holding company receives an objection to its capital plan, it must resubmit a revised plan within 30 days. Should the Federal Reserve object to a capital plan, a bank holding company may not make any capital distribution other than those capital distributions that the Federal Reserve has indicated non-objection to in writing. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it intends to publish the results of its review of the portion of each bank holding company’s capital plan that relates to the stress scenario developed by the Federal Reserve. The information to be released will include, among other things, company-specific information about projected post-stress capital ratios and the minimum value of these ratios over the planning horizon. Additionally, the Federal Reserve may limit the Company’s capital actions should the Company fail to include any intended action in its approved 2013 capital plan. In November 2012, the Federal Reserve released additional guidance and instructions for 2013 capital plans. Under this guidance, the Federal Reserve noted that certain large bank holding companies, such as the Company, will have limited ability to adjust downward planned capital actions in light of stress test results. Should an adjustment occur, however, the Federal Reserve intends to publicly disclose the results of stress tests using both the original and adjusted 2013 capital plans. Additionally, although they are not yet in effect, the Federal Reserve’s guidance requires a bank holding company to demonstrate that it can achieve the capital ratios required by the Basel III framework as it would come into effect. 37 Table of Contents On January 7, 2013, we submitted our comprehensive capital plan to the Federal Reserve. We expect a response from the Federal Reserve by March 14, 2013. Dividends The Company and TRS, as well as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, are limited by banking statutes, regulations and supervisory policy in their ability to pay dividends. In general, federal and applicable state banking laws prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval, insured depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, from making dividend distributions if such distributions are not paid out of available recent earnings or would cause the institution to fail to meet capital adequacy standards. As described below under “Prompt Corrective Action,” the FDIA also generally prohibits an FDIC-insured depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of dividends) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. In addition to specific limitations on the dividends that subsidiary banks can pay to their holding companies, federal regulators could prohibit a dividend that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. Dividend payments by the Company and TRS to shareholders are subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. It is Federal Reserve policy that bank holding companies generally should pay dividends on common stock to common shareholders only out of net income available to common shareholders over the past year and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization’s current and expected future capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Increasingly, however, the Federal Reserve has limited dividend payments to about 30% of earnings. Moreover, bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that place undue pressure on the capital of depository institution subsidiaries or that may undermine the bank holding company’s ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve could prohibit a dividend by the Company or TRS that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. Because the Company is a bank holding company with more than $50 billion in consolidated assets, its payment of dividends is subject to heightened regulatory requirements. The Company is required to include projected dividend payments in the capital plan required to be submitted to the Federal Reserve, discussed above under “Capital Planning,” and the restrictions imposed as part of the capital planning process will likely be the principal limitation on our ability to make capital distributions (including dividends and share repurchases). In addition, under the Federal Reserve’s final rule relating to capital plans released in November 2011, the Company generally is required to obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before it can make capital distributions, including dividend payments, under any of the following circumstances (regardless of whether the distribution is part of a capital plan to which the Federal Reserve has not objected): • the Company will not meet a minimum regulatory capital ratio or a Tier 1 common equity ratio of at least 5% after giving effect to the capital distribution; • the Federal Reserve has notified the Company that it has determined that either (i) the capital distribution will result in a material adverse change to the Company’s capital or liquidity structure, or (ii) the Company’s earnings are materially underperforming projections; • the dollar amount of the capital distribution will exceed the projected distribution described in the Company’s approved capital plan; or • the capital distribution will occur after the occurrence of an event requiring the resubmission (other than pursuant to an objection) of the Company’s capital plan and before the Federal Reserve has acted on the resubmitted plan. Prior approval of a bank holding company’s capital distributions is not required for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets that are well capitalized, provided the capital distribution does not exceed one percent of such company’s Tier 1 capital, the Company provides the Federal Reserve with at least 15 calendar days’ notice of the proposed distribution, and the Federal Reserve does not object. The Federal Reserve has indicated that capital plans implying dividend payout ratios above 30% of projected after-tax net income will receive “particularly close scrutiny.” 38 Table of Contents Living Wills As noted above, we will be required to prepare and provide to regulators a resolution plan. The resolution plan is mandated under the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or greater to submit a plan for rapid and orderly resolution under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material distress or failure. Pursuant to a rule that took effect in November 2011, the first such resolution plan for us is required to be submitted by December 31, 2013 and annual updates will be required thereafter. The establishment and maintenance of this resolution plan may, as a practical matter, present additional constraints on transactions and business arrangements between our bank and non-bank subsidiaries. Activities and Acquisitions As a bank holding company with insured depository institution subsidiaries, we are subject to banking laws and regulations that limit our activities, investments and acquisitions. In addition, acquisitions and investments are subject to the prior review and approval of our regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC. The banking agencies have broad discretion in evaluating proposed acquisitions and investments. In deciding whether to approve an acquisition, federal banking agencies may consider, among other factors, effects of the acquisition on competition, financial and managerial resources, and financial stability; future prospects, including current and projected capital ratios and levels; the competence and expertise of management and our record of compliance with laws and regulations; public benefits; the convenience and needs of the community and our depository institution subsidiaries’ record of compliance with the CRA; risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system; and our effectiveness in combating money laundering. As a financial holding company, we may engage in a broader range of financial and related activities than are otherwise permissible for bank holding companies as long as we continue to meet the eligibility requirements for financial holding companies noted above. Among other things, the BHC Act requires a bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control more than 5% of any class of the voting securities of the institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association (the Bank Merger Act requires regulatory approval before a bank subsidiary may make such an acquisition); or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. The Federal Reserve must approve certain additional capital contributions to an existing non-U.S. investment and certain direct and indirect acquisitions by the Company of an interest in a non-U.S. company, including in a foreign bank. Dodd-Frank requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion to provide the Federal Reserve with written notice (which is largely tantamount to an approval process) prior to acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company (other than an insured depository institution) that is engaged in financial activities described in section 4(k) of the BHC Act and that has total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more, subject to certain exceptions. Dodd-Frank also requires financial holding companies to obtain Federal Reserve approval prior to acquiring any nonbank company with total consolidated assets in excess of $10 billion. Applicable federal and state laws also limit the ability of persons to invest in or acquire control of the Company without providing notice to or obtaining the approval of one or more of our regulators. The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person, entity, or group of persons or entities acting in concert, from directly or indirectly acquiring “control” of a bank holding company such as the Company, unless the Federal Reserve has been given prior notice and has not objected to the transaction. Under Federal Reserve regulations, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting stock of the Company would generally create a rebuttable presumption of acquisition of control of the Company and require prior notice to and non-objection by the Federal Reserve. Additionally, under the BHC Act, any person or company is required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before acquiring control of the Company, which, among other things, includes the acquisition of ownership of or control over 25% or more of any class of voting securities of the Company or the power to exercise a “controlling influence” over the Company. In the case of an acquirer that is a bank or bank holding company, the BHC Act requires approval of the Federal Reserve for the acquisition of ownership or control of any voting securities of the Company, if the acquisition results in the bank or bank holding company controlling more than 5% of the outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of the Company. 39 Table of Contents Source of Strength Bank holding companies are required by statute to act as a source of strength to all of their insured depository institution subsidiaries. Therefore, the Company is required to act as a source of strength to Centurion Bank and AEBFSB and may be required to commit capital and financial resources to support both institutions. Such support may be required at times when, absent this requirement, the Company otherwise might determine not to provide it. Capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. Capital Adequacy The Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are required to comply with the applicable capital adequacy rules established by the federal banking regulators. Currently, there are two risk-based measures of capital adequacy for bank holding companies that have been promulgated by the Federal Reserve, as well as a leverage measure. As discussed further below, new risk-based and leverage measures have been proposed by the federal banking regulators. The risk-based capital rules are designed to make regulatory capital requirements sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banks and financial holding companies, to account for off-balance-sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Capital ratios represent capital (as defined) as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance-sheet items. As a supervisory matter, the federal bank regulatory agencies expect most bank holding companies, and in particular larger bank holding companies such as the Company, to maintain regulatory capital ratios that, at a minimum, qualify a bank holding company and its depository institution subsidiaries as “well capitalized.” The required ratios to qualify as well capitalized are currently a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6% and, for depository institutions, a leverage ratio of at least 5%. The Proposed Basel III Rules (as defined below), if implemented in the form proposed, will amend the capital ratios required for well capitalized status. The rules also provide that bank holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. Following the recent financial crisis, the federal bank regulatory agencies have encouraged larger bank holding companies to maintain capital ratios appreciably above the “well capitalized” standard. Moreover, the Federal Reserve is focusing more on the regulatory requirement that common equity be the “predominant” element of Tier 1 capital. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it will consider a “tangible Tier 1 capital leverage ratio” (deducting all intangibles) and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. For additional information regarding our capital ratios, see “Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity” on pages 29-31 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. General Risk-Based Capital Rules The Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB currently calculate regulatory capital ratios under rules adopted by the applicable federal bank regulatory agency, based on the 1988 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). The applicable federal bank regulatory agencies refer to these capital rules as their “general risk-based capital rules.” Under these rules, the minimum requirement for the ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is 8%. At least half of the total capital must be composed of Tier 1 capital, which includes common equity, undivided profits, minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, and non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock (and, under existing standards, a limited amount of qualifying trust preferred securities and qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock at the holding company level), less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Tier 2 capital may consist of, among other things, qualifying subordinated debt, mandatorily convertible debt securities, other preferred stock and trust preferred securities and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. Dodd-Frank applies to bank holding companies such as the Company the same risk-based capital and leverage requirements that apply to insured depository institutions. Going forward this will preclude the Company from including in 40 Table of Contents Tier 1 capital trust preferred securities or cumulative preferred stock, if any, issued on or after May 19, 2010 and, over a three-year period beginning January 1, 2013, and requires the Company to phase out all trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred stock from inclusion in its Tier 1 capital. The minimum requirement for the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets is 4%. The general risk-based capital rules state that the capital rules are minimum standards based primarily on broad credit-risk considerations and do not take into account the other types of risk a banking organization may be exposed to (e.g., interest rate, market, liquidity and operational risks). The Federal Reserve may, therefore, set higher capital requirements for categories of banks (e.g., systemically important firms), or for an individual bank, as situations warrant. As discussed above, the Federal Reserve in fact expects large bank holding companies, such as the Company, and their depository institution subsidiaries to maintain regulatory capital ratios well in excess of these minimums. Advanced Approaches Risk Based Capital Rules In June 2004, the Basel Committee issued the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards (“Basel II”). The applicable federal bank regulatory agencies refer to their Basel II-based rules as their “advanced approaches rules” and apply them only to banking institutions having $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in foreign exposures. The agencies refer to those institutions as “advanced approaches” institutions. The Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are required to enter the parallel-run period and commence calculating their risk-based capital ratios under the advanced approaches risk-based capital rules, while continuing to calculate risk-based capital ratios under the general risk-based capital rules as a floor, by January 1, 2014, unless extended by their respective regulators. The U.S. advanced approaches risk-based capital rules, which became effective April 1, 2008, initially provided that advanced approaches institutions like the Company would calculate their capital requirements only under the new Basel II-based requirements after completion of three transitional floor periods, which themselves commence after a satisfactory parallel-run period of no less than four consecutive calendar quarters during which the institution is required to confidentially report regulatory capital under both the general and advanced approaches risk-based capital rules. However, the U.S. banking agencies have amended their capital rules to provide that minimum capital as required under the general risk-based capital rules will act as a floor for minimum capital requirements calculated in accordance with the advanced approaches risk-based capital rules. In June 2012, the federal bank regulatory agencies released proposed rules implementing standardized approach to credit risk outlined in the Basel II-based rules (the “Standardized Approach Rules”). The Standardized Approach Rules would replace the risk-weighting categories for assets under the federal bank regulatory agencies’ general risk-based capital rules to provide a more risk-sensitive treatment for certain assets and to address weaknesses that the federal banking regulators identified over recent years. The new risk-weights for the standardized approach range from 0% to 600% as compared to the risk-weights of 0% to 100% in the federal bank regulatory agencies’ existing general risk-based capital rules. Higher risk weights would apply to a variety of exposures, including certain securitization exposures, equity exposures, claims on securities firms and exposures to counterparties on OTC derivatives. The federal bank regulatory agencies’ June 2012 proposal provided that the Standardized Approach Rules will become effective on January 1, 2015, with an option for early adoption. Leverage Requirement Basel I and Basel II do not include a leverage requirement as an international standard. However, the federal bank regulatory agencies have established minimum leverage ratio rules for banking institutions (and, as further discussed below, the Proposed Basel III Rules will impose an additional leverage ratio). The federal bank regulatory agencies’ existing capital rules provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total assets, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets (the “Leverage Ratio”), of 3.0% for banking institutions that meet certain specified criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating. All other banking institutions are generally required to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 4.0%. The federal bank regulatory agencies’ proposed revised capital rules released in June 2012, in addition to addressing their Standardized Approach Rules and Proposed Basel III Rules (as defined below), if implemented, will eliminate the 3.0% minimum leverage ratio for certain banking institutions, with the consequence that all banking institutions will be required to maintain a Leverage Ratio of at least 4.0%. 41 Table of Contents Basel III In June 2012, the federal bank regulatory agencies released proposed rules (the “Proposed Basel III Rules”) implementing the final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, known as “Basel III,” released by the Basel Committee in December 2010. The Proposed Basel III Rules, among other things: • Introduce as a new capital measure “Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”), specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, require that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures (such as the deductions described below) be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and expand the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations • When fully phased in, require banking institutions to maintain: – a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer,” which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7% (there is no comparable CET1 requirement under either the federal bank regulatory agencies’ general or advanced approaches risk-based capital rules) – a minimum ratio of Tier 1 (that is, CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer, which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation (the current minimum requirement is 4.0% ) – a minimum ratio of Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer, which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation (the current minimum requirement is 8.0%) • Apply to advanced approaches banking institutions only, including the Company, a new Basel III-based leverage ratio of at least 3.0%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to an expanded concept of leverage exposure that includes both on-balance sheet and certain off-balance sheet exposures • For advanced approaches institutions only, introduce a “countercyclical capital buffer,” an add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% (potentially resulting in total buffers of up to 5.0% being added to each of the ratios of CET1, Tier 1 Capital and Total capital to risk-weighted assets), which can be assessed with respect to certain banking institutions and bank holding companies, including the Company, when the relevant U.S. federal banking regulator determines excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk Banking institutions whose ratio of CET1, Tier 1 Capital or Total capital to risk-weighted assets is above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. The Proposed Basel III Rules provide for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include the requirement that deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income, significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities and mortgage servicing rights, be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. The amount of these assets that is not deducted from CET1 will be risk weighted at 250%. Goodwill will be subject to a full deduction from CET1, which is consistent with the calculation of other capital ratios. The federal bank regulatory agencies initially stated that the Proposed Basel III Rules would become effective on January 1, 2013, but in November 2012 indicated that the implementation of these rules would be delayed. The final rules as implemented and applicable to us may differ from the Proposed Basel III Rules or the Basel III final framework as published by the Basel Committee. Therefore, the implications for the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ regulatory capital requirements remain uncertain at this time. In November 2011, the Basel Committee supplemented Basel III by issuing final provisions applying a new CET1 surcharge to certain global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”). In a companion release addressing progress on a variety 42 Table of Contents of financial regulatory reforms relating to global systemically important financial institutions, the Financial Stability Board released a list of 29 such institutions and indicated that it used the G-SIB surcharge methodology in creating the list. The Company was not included on either the original or revised list of G-SIBs released in November 2012. While the Proposed Basel III Rules did not address the adoption of the surcharge on G-SIBs, the federal bank regulators noted that they plan to implement this surcharge for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, or some subset of such institutions, consistent with the Basel Committee’s G-SIB surcharge proposal. Liquidity Ratios under Basel III Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the United States and internationally, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets that can be converted into cash to meet its liquidity needs for a 30-day time horizon under a significantly severe liquidity stress scenario specified by supervisors. The other test, referred to as the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incent banking entities to increase their holdings of cash, U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source. The Basel III liquidity framework contemplates that the LCR will be implemented beginning with 60% compliance required starting on January 1, 2015 with the remaining portion phased-in over the next four years in 10% increments, reaching 100% on January 1, 2019. The Basel III liquidity framework contemplates that the NSFR will be implemented as a minimum standard by January 1, 2018. The Federal bank regulatory agencies have not yet proposed rules implementing the Basel III liquidity framework for U.S. banking institutions. The Federal Reserve’s proposed heightened prudential requirements for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of consolidated total assets also include enhanced liquidity standards, as discussed above under “Heightened Prudential Requirements for Large Bank Holding Companies.” Prompt Corrective Action The FDIA requires, among other things, that federal banking regulators take prompt corrective action in respect of FDIC-insured depository institutions (such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB) that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDIA specifies five capital tiers: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital tier depends upon how its capital levels compare to various relevant capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. A bank may be deemed to be in a capitalization category that is lower than is indicated by its actual capital position if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating. Once an institution becomes “undercapitalized,” the FDIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which an institution is classified. A depository institution that is not well capitalized is also subject to restrictions on the acceptance of brokered deposits including Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service deposits. The majority of the Company’s outstanding U.S. retail deposits has been raised through third-party channels, and such deposits are considered brokered deposits for bank regulatory purposes, although as part of our funding strategy, a majority of the deposits raised during 2012 were accepted directly from consumers through American Express Personal Savings, a set of deposit products offered by AEBFSB. For a description of our deposit programs, see “Deposit Programs” under “U.S. Card Services — Consumer and Small Business Services” above and “Deposit Programs” on page 33 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. The FDIA generally prohibits an FDIC-insured depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of dividends) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to restrictions on borrowing from the Federal Reserve 43 Table of Contents and to growth limitations, and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. For a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, any holding company must guarantee the capital plan up to an amount equal to the lesser of 5% of the depository institution’s assets at the time it became undercapitalized and the amount of the capital deficiency at the time it fails to comply with the plan. In the event of the holding company’s bankruptcy, such guarantee would take priority over claims of its general unsecured creditors. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized. Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator. Early Remediation Regime Dodd-Frank requires the establishment of an “early remediation” regime for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, including the Company. In January 2012, the Federal Reserve published a notice of proposed rulemaking that included a proposed early remediation system based in part on the prompt corrective action regime that currently applies to insured depository institutions under the FDIA. The proposed rule, however, utilizes “forward-looking” triggers based on capital and leverage, stress test requirements, risk management, liquidity and publicly available market data. Because these rules are not yet final, their ultimate impact on us is not certain. Transactions Between Centurion Bank or AEBFSB and Their Respective Affiliates Certain transactions (including loans and credit extensions from Centurion Bank and AEBFSB) between Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, on the one hand, and their affiliates (including the Company, TRS and their non-bank subsidiaries), on the other hand, are subject to quantitative and qualitative limitations, collateral requirements, and other restrictions imposed by statute and Federal Reserve regulation. Effective July 21, 2012, Dodd-Frank significantly expanded the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization and changes the procedure for seeking exemptions from these restrictions. Transactions subject to these restrictions are generally required to be made on an arms-length basis. These restrictions generally do not apply to transactions between a depository institution and its subsidiaries. FDIC Insurance Assessments Centurion Bank and AEBFSB accept deposits and those deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits. The FDIC’s deposit insurance fund (“Deposit Insurance Fund”) is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions. As part of its efforts to rebuild the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC required insured depository institutions, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, to prepay their estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009. Each institution’s assessments are based on the average consolidated total assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period (the “assessment base”). The assessment rate applicable to large depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, is adjusted based upon the insured depository institution’s ratio of (1) long-term unsecured debt to the assessment base, (2) long-term unsecured debt issued by another insured depository institution to the assessment base and (3) brokered deposits to the assessment base. The adjustments for brokered deposits to the assessment base do not apply so long as the institution is well capitalized and has a composite CAMELS rating of 1 or 2. The rules permit the FDIC to impose additional discretionary assessment rate adjustments. Dodd-Frank requires the FDIC to maintain a minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund of 1.35% of estimated insured deposits by September 30, 2020. On December 20, 2010, the FDIC issued a final rule setting the increased reserve ratio at 2%. This rule represents an increase in the reserve ratio and will result in increased costs for Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. In addition, Dodd-Frank eliminated the ceiling (1.5% of insured deposits) on the size of the Deposit Insurance Fund and made the payment of dividends from the Deposit Insurance Fund by the FDIC discretionary. Under the FDIA, the FDIC may terminate the insurance of an institution’s deposits upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. We do not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance at either of our insured depository institution subsidiaries. 44 Table of Contents FDIC Powers upon Insolvency of Insured Depository Institutions If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution, such as Centurion Bank or AEBFSB, upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power: (1) to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors; (2) to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms; or (3) to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmation or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution. In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution and depositors in non-U.S. offices, in the liquidation or other resolution of the institution by a receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of Centurion Bank or AEBFSB, the debt holders and depositors in non-U.S. offices would be treated differently from, and could receive substantially less, if anything, than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution. Orderly Liquidation Authority under Dodd-Frank Dodd-Frank creates Orderly Liquidation Authority (“OLA”), a resolution regime for systemically important non-bank financial companies, including bank holding companies, under which the Treasury Secretary may appoint the FDIC as receiver to liquidate such a company if the company is in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability. This determination by the Treasury Secretary must come after supermajority recommendations by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC and consultation by the Treasury Secretary with the President. OLA is similar to the FDIC resolution model for depository institutions (including the very broad powers granted to the FDIC as receiver), with certain modifications to reflect differences between depository institutions and non-bank financial companies and to reduce disparities between the treatment of creditors’ claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and in an OLA proceeding as compared to disparities that would exist in the resolution by the FDIC of an insured depository institution. However, the provisions governing the rights of creditors under the orderly liquidation authority were modified from the FDIA regime in certain respects to reduce disparities with the treatment of creditors’ claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as compared to the treatment of those claims under the new authority. Nonetheless, substantial differences in the rights of creditors exist between these two regimes, including: the right of the FDIC under the Dodd-Frank Act provisions to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, the use of an administrative claims procedure to determine creditors’ claims (as opposed to the judicial procedure utilized in bankruptcy proceedings), and the right of the FDIC to transfer claims to a “bridge” entity. An Orderly Liquidation Fund will fund OLA liquidation proceedings through borrowings from the U.S. Department of Treasury and risk-based assessments made, first, on entities that receive more in the resolution than they would have received in liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as the Company, and on certain other non-bank financial companies. If an orderly liquidation is triggered, the Company could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. It is not possible to determine the level of any such future assessments. The orderly liquidation authority provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective upon enactment. However, a number of rulemakings are required under the terms of the Act, and a number of provisions of the new authority require clarification. The FDIC has completed its initial phase of rulemaking under the orderly liquidation authority, but may provide additional guidance. New guidance may affect the manner in which the new authority is applied. Cross-Guarantee Provisions Under the “cross-guarantee” provision of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), insured depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss incurred or reasonably anticipated to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository institution. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are commonly controlled within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision. 45 Table of Contents Community Reinvestment Act Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are subject to the CRA, which imposes affirmative, ongoing obligations on depository institutions to meet the credit needs of their local communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution. The CRA requires an institution’s primary federal regulator, as part of the examination process, to assess the institution’s record in meeting its obligations under the CRA, and also to take such assessment into account in evaluating merger and acquisition proposals and applications to open or relocate a branch office. AEBFSB was examined by the OCC for CRA compliance in November 2012. We are awaiting the results of this examination. Centurion Bank will be examined by the FDIC during the first quarter of 2013, with the results to be released shortly thereafter. In each of their last examinations, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB received “satisfactory” CRA ratings. In the case of a bank holding company, such as the Company and TRS, applying for approval to acquire a bank or bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the record of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company in considering the application. In addition, as discussed previously, the failure of the Company’s subsidiary depository institutions to maintain satisfactory CRA ratings could result in restrictions on the Company’s and TRS’ ability to engage in activities in reliance on financial holding company authority. Privacy and Data Protection We use information about our customers to develop and make available relevant, personalized products and services. Customers are given choices about how we use and disclose their information, and we give them notice regarding the measures we take to safeguard this information in accordance with applicable Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws. Regulatory and legislative activity, as well as media and public focus, in the areas of privacy, data protection and information security continues to increase worldwide, spurred by advancements in technology (including mobile devices), broad use of the Internet, expanding uses of mobile commerce and social networking, and related concerns about the rapid and widespread collection, dissemination and use of personal information, and highly publicized security breaches and cybersecurity incidents. Our regulators, including regulatory examiners, are increasingly focused on ensuring that our privacy, data protection and information security-related policies and practices, including those related to access controls, are adequate to inform consumers of our data collection, use, sharing and/or security practices, to provide them with choices, if required, about how we use and share their information, and to safeguard their personal information in accordance with applicable Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws. In the United States, certain of our businesses may be subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”) and its implementing regulations and guidance. Among other things, the GLBA imposes certain limitations on the ability of financial institutions to share consumers’ nonpublic personal information with nonaffiliated third parties; requires that financial institutions provide certain disclosures to consumers about their data collection, sharing and security practices and affords customers the right to “opt out” of the institution’s disclosure of their personal financial information to nonaffiliated third parties (with limited exceptions), and requires financial institutions to develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities and the sensitivity of customer information processed by the financial institution. The GLBA does not preempt state laws that afford greater privacy protections to consumers. Various states also have adopted laws, rules and/or regulations pertaining to privacy and/or information security, including certain potentially applicable financial privacy laws (such as a law in effect in California); data security and/or data disposal requirements (including potentially applicable requirements adopted in states such as Massachusetts and Nevada); online privacy laws (such as a law in effect in California); and laws relating to the confidentiality of certain types of data (such as laws governing certain health-related information and/or Social Security numbers, for which there are also potentially applicable federal laws, rules, regulations, and/or guidance as well). Certain of these requirements may apply to the personal information of our employees and/or contractors as well as our customers. Various U.S. federal banking regulatory agencies, and 46 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, have enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulator and/or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a data security breach. Data breach notification laws are also becoming more prevalent in other parts of the world where we operate, including Japan, South 46 Table of Contents Korea, Taiwan, Mexico and Germany. In many countries that have yet to impose data breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to encourage voluntary breach notification and discourage data security breaches. We are also subject to certain Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws in other countries in which we operate (including countries in the European Union, Mexico, Canada, Japan and Australia), some of which are more stringent than those in the United States. In Europe, European Directive 95/46/EC (commonly referred to as the “Data Protection Directive”), which has been in place since 1995, provides for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. The Data Protection Directive requires the controller of an individual’s personal data to, among other things, take the necessary technical and organizational steps to protect personal data. More recently, Directive 2009/136/EC (commonly referred to as the “e-Privacy Directive” or “Cookies Directive”) introduced new requirements on the collection and use of data about internet users and required Member States to enact national laws to comply with such requirements. Compliance with data protection laws in Europe and elsewhere could result in higher technology, administrative and other costs for the Company and limit our ability to optimize the use of our closed-loop data. The European Commission released on January 25, 2012 the text of its draft proposed data protection framework regulation to replace the EU Data Protection Directive (95/46/EC). If enacted, it may affect parties, such as the Company, that collect and/or process the personal data of residents of Member States and may result in additional compliance requirements and costs. The draft General Data Protection Regulation proposes, among other things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches, in certain circumstances, to data subjects and supervisory authorities, applying uniformly across sectors and across the European Union and proposes significant fines for non-compliance with the proposed regulation’s requirements. The proposed regulation may be finalized in late 2013 with an effective date 18-24 months thereafter. In November 2012, we received approval from the data protection authority in the United Kingdom of our binding corporate rules (“BCR”) for transferring personal data collected in European Economic Area countries to American Express group companies worldwide. This approval is effective January 28, 2013. It followed a consultation process between the UK authority and the data protection authorities in other countries in Europe and enables us to proceed with obtaining formal approvals of our BCR from authorities across the European Economic Area. We continue our efforts to safeguard the personal information entrusted to us in accordance with applicable Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws, and our internal privacy, data protection and information security-related policies, including taking steps to reduce the potential for identity theft or other fraud, while seeking to collect and use personal information in an appropriate manner to achieve our business objectives. We also have undertaken measures to assess the level of access to customer and employee data by our employees, partners and service providers. Fair Credit Reporting The FCRA regulates the disclosure of consumer credit reports by consumer reporting agencies and the use of consumer credit report information by banks and other companies. Among other things, FCRA places restrictions (with limited exceptions) on the sharing and use of certain personal financial and creditworthiness information of our customers with and by our affiliates. The FCRA was significantly amended by the enactment in December 2003 of the FACT Act. The FACT Act requires any company that receives information concerning a consumer from an affiliate, subject to certain exceptions, to permit the consumer to opt out from having that information used to market the company’s products to the consumer. In November 2007, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule implementing the affiliate marketing provisions of the FACT Act. Companies subject to oversight by these agencies were required to comply with the rule by October 1, 2008. We have implemented various mechanisms to allow our customers to opt out of affiliate sharing and of marketing by the Company and our affiliates, and we continue to review and enhance these mechanisms to ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and a favorable customer experience. The FACT Act further amended the FCRA by adding several new provisions designed to prevent or decrease identity theft and to improve the accuracy of consumer credit information. The federal banking agencies and the Federal Trade 47 Table of Contents Commission (“FTC”) published a final rule in November 2007 requiring financial institutions to implement a program containing reasonable policies and procedures to address the risk of identity theft and to identify accounts where identity theft is more likely to occur. Companies subject to oversight by the federal banking agencies originally were required to comply with the rule by November 1, 2008, but the FTC suspended enforcement of its rule through December 31, 2010 pending consideration of legislation by Congress to clarify the scope of entities covered by the law and the implementing regulations. On December 18, 2010, the President signed into law the Red Flag Program Clarification Act of 2010. Our internal policies and standards, as well as our enterprise-wide data protection, information security and fraud prevention programs, are designed to comply with the new identity theft requirements. The FACT Act also imposes duties on both consumer reporting agencies and on businesses that furnish or use information contained in consumer credit reports. For example, a furnisher of information is required to implement procedures to prevent the reporting of any information that it learns is the result of identity theft. Also, if a consumer disputes the accuracy of information provided to a consumer reporting agency, the furnisher of that information must conduct an investigation and respond to the consumer in a timely fashion. The federal banking regulatory agencies and the FTC have issued rules that specify the circumstances under which furnishers of information would be required to investigate disputes regarding the accuracy of the information provided to a consumer reporting agency. The FACT Act also requires grantors of credit that use consumer credit report information in making a determination to offer a borrower credit on terms that are “materially less favorable” than the terms offered to most of the lender’s other customers to notify the borrower that the terms are based on a consumer credit report. In such a case the borrower is entitled to receive a free copy of the report from the consumer reporting agency. The federal bank regulatory agencies and the FTC have issued rules that specify the circumstances under which “risk-based pricing” notices must be provided to customers and the content, format and timing of such notices. Since July 21, 2011, Dodd-Frank requires the addition of certain information about credit scores to “risk-based pricing” notices and to adverse action notices otherwise required by the FCRA. Grantors of credit using prescreened consumer credit report information in credit solicitations are also required to include an enhanced notice to consumers that they have the right to opt out from receiving further prescreened offers of credit. The enactment of the FACT Act and the promulgation of rules implementing it are not expected to have a significant impact on our business or practices. The CARD Act We are subject to the provisions of the legislation known as the CARD Act, which was enacted in May 2009. The CARD Act regulates credit card billing practices, pricing, disclosure and other practices. Among other things, the CARD Act and related regulations prohibit issuers from treating a payment as late for any purpose, including imposing a penalty interest rate or late fee, unless a consumer has been provided a “reasonable amount of time” to make the payment. It also requires issuers to apply payment amounts in excess of the minimum payment first to the balance with the highest annual percentage rates (“APRs”) and then to balances with lower APRs. In addition, the CARD Act prohibits an issuer from increasing the APR on outstanding balances, except in limited circumstances such as when a promotional rate expires, a variable rate adjusts, or an account is seriously delinquent or completes a workout arrangement. The CARD Act also requires that penalty fees be reasonable and proportional. The CARD Act also requires issuers to maintain reasonable written policies to consider a consumer’s income or assets and current obligations prior to opening an account or increasing a credit line. In addition, applicants for new accounts who are under the age of 21 must demonstrate an independent ability to make the required minimum periodic payments. The Federal Reserve issued clarifications to its rules implementing the CARD Act effective October 1, 2011, which include a requirement that applicants who are 21 and over must also demonstrate an independent ability to make the required monthly minimum payments and provide that issuers may consider household income or assets only under specific conditions. The CARD Act requires issuers to periodically reevaluate APR increases to determine if a decrease is appropriate. The obligation to periodically reevaluate APR increases commenced in February 2011 and is ongoing. Certain provisions of the CARD Act also apply to stored value and prepaid products sold on or after August 22, 2010. In March 2010, the Federal Reserve amended its Regulation E to impose new restrictions on the ability to impose dormancy, inactivity or service fees with respect to gift certificates, store gift cards and general-use prepaid cards issued primarily for personal use. Such fees may only be imposed under certain conditions. Additionally, the rules prohibit the sale or issuance of 48 Table of Contents a gift certificate, store gift card or general-use prepaid card that has an expiration date of less than five years after either the date a certificate or card is issued or the date on which funds were last loaded. The rules also require implementation of policies and procedures to give consumers a reasonable opportunity to purchase a certificate or card with at least five years before the certificate or card expiration date, prohibit any fees for replacing an expired certificate or card or refunding the remaining balance as long as the underlying funds remain valid, and require additional disclosures for any fee other than a dormancy, inactivity or service fee. Anti-Money Laundering Compliance American Express is subject to a significant number of AML laws and regulations as a result of being a financial company headquartered in the United States, as well as having a global presence. In the United States, the majority of AML requirements is derived from the Bank Secrecy Act, as it has been amended by the Patriot Act. In Europe, AML requirements are largely the result of countries transposing the 3rd European Union Money Laundering Directive (and preceding EU Money Laundering Directives) into local laws and regulations. We anticipate the passage of the 4th European Money Laundering Directive in 2013, which may add new AML requirements. Numerous other countries, such as Australia, Canada, Mexico and Argentina, have also enacted or proposed new or enhanced AML legislation and regulations applicable to American Express. The underpinnings of these laws and regulations are the efforts of each government to prevent the financial system from being used by criminals to hide their illicit proceeds and to impede terrorists’ ability to access and move funds used in support of terrorist activities. Among other things, these laws and regulations require financial institutions to establish AML programs that meet certain standards, including, in some instances, expanded reporting, particularly in the area of suspicious transactions, and enhanced information gathering and recordkeeping requirements. Any errors, failures or delays in complying with federal, state or foreign AML and counter-terrorist financing laws could result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties and forfeiture of significant assets or other enforcement actions. American Express has established and continues to maintain a Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy, designed to ensure that, at a minimum, American Express and all of its businesses are in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations related to AML and anti-terrorist financing initiatives. The American Express Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy requires that each American Express business maintains a compliance program that provides for a system of internal controls to ensure that appropriate due diligence and, when necessary, enhanced due diligence, including obtaining and maintaining appropriate documentation, is conducted at account opening and updated, as necessary, through the course of the customer relationship. The Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy is also designed to ensure there are appropriate methods of monitoring transactions and account relationships to identify potentially suspicious activity and reporting suspicious activity to governmental authorities in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. In addition, the American Express Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy requires the training of appropriate personnel with regard to AML and anti-terrorist financing issues and provides for independent testing to ensure that the Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. The United States prohibits U.S. persons from engaging with individuals and entities identified as “Specially Designated Nationals,” such as terrorists and narcotics traffickers. These prohibitions are administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) and are typically known as the OFAC rules. The OFAC rules prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in financial transactions with or relating to the prohibited individual, entity or country, require the blocking of assets in which the individual, entity or country has an interest, and prohibit transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons) to such individual, entity or country. Blocked assets (e.g., property or bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. We maintain a global sanctions program designed to ensure compliance with OFAC requirements. Failure to comply with such requirements could subject us to serious legal and reputational consequences, including criminal penalties. 49 Table of Contents Compensation Practices Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. In June 2010, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC and the OTS jointly issued final guidance on sound incentive compensation policies that applies to all banking organizations supervised by the Federal Reserve, including bank holding companies, such as the Company, as well as all insured depository institutions, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. The final guidance sets forth three key principles for incentive compensation arrangements that are designed to help ensure that incentive compensation plans do not encourage excessive risk-taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of banking organizations. The three principles provide that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should (1) provide incentives that appropriately balance risk and financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risks, (2) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (3) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. Any deficiencies in compensation practices of a banking institution that are identified by the Federal Reserve or other bank regulatory agencies in connection with its review of such organization’s compensation practices may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The final guidance provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. Additionally, in 2011, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the OTS, the SEC, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the National Credit Union Administration issued proposed rulemaking pursuant to Dodd-Frank on incentive-based compensation practices. Under the proposed rule, all financial institutions with total consolidated assets of $1 billion or more (such as the Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB) would be prohibited from offering incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by offering “excessive” compensation or compensation that could lead the company to material financial loss. All covered institutions would be required to provide federal regulators with additional disclosures to determine compliance with the proposed rule and also to maintain policies and procedures to ensure compliance. Additionally, for covered institutions with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, such as the Company, the proposed rule requires that at least 50% of certain executive officers’ incentive-based compensation be deferred for a minimum of three years and provides for the adjustment of deferred payments to reflect actual losses or other measures of performance that become known during the deferral period. Moreover, the board of directors of a covered institution with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets must identify employees who have authority to expose an institution to substantial risk, evaluate and document the incentive-based compensation methods used to balance risk and financial rewards for the identified employees, and approve incentive-based compensation arrangements for those employees after appropriately considering other available methods for balancing risk and financial rewards. The form and timing of any final rule cannot be determined at this time. The scope and content of these policies and regulations on executive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies and regulations will adversely affect the ability of American Express and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate its and their key employees. Anti-Corruption We are subject to complex international and U.S. anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), the UK Bribery Act and other laws that prohibit the making or offering of improper payments. The FCPA makes it illegal to corruptly offer or provide anything of value to foreign government officials, political parties or political party officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or an improper advantage. The anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA are enforced by DOJ. The FCPA also requires us to strictly comply with certain accounting and internal controls standards, which are enforced by the SEC. In recent years, DOJ and SEC enforcement of the FCPA has become more intense. The UK Bribery Act, which took effect in July 2011, also prohibits commercial bribery, and the receipt of a bribe, and makes it a corporate offense to fail to prevent bribery by an associated person, in addition to prohibiting improper payments to foreign government officials. Failure to comply with the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act and other laws can expose us and/or individual employees to potentially severe criminal and civil penalties. The risk may be greater when we transact business, whether through subsidiaries or joint ventures or other partnerships, in countries with higher perceived levels of corruption. We have risk-based policies and procedures designed to detect and deter prohibited 50 Table of Contents practices, provide specialized training, monitor our operations and payments, and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the manner in which transactions are recorded. However, if our employees, contractors or agents fail to comply with applicable laws governing our international operations, the Company, as well as individual employees, may face investigations or prosecutions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. FOREIGN OPERATIONS We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the use of our Card products, Travelers Cheques, travel and other financial products and services in countries outside the United States and continue to broaden the use of these products and services outside the United States. (For a discussion of our revenue by geographic region, see Note 25 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which you can find on pages 108-110 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.) Our revenues can be affected by political and economic conditions in these countries (including the availability of foreign exchange for the payment by the local Card issuer of obligations arising out of local Cardmembers’ spending outside such country, for the payment of Card bills by Cardmembers who are billed in a currency other than their local currency, and for the remittance of the proceeds of Travelers Cheque sales). Substantial and sudden devaluation of local Cardmembers’ currency can also affect their ability to make payments to the local issuer of the Card in connection with spending outside the local country. As a result of our foreign operations, we are exposed to the possibility that, because of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar may be realized in amounts greater or less than the U.S. dollar amounts at which they are currently recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Examples of transactions in which this may occur include the purchase by Cardmembers of goods and services in a currency other than the currency in which they are billed; the sale in one currency of a Travelers Cheque denominated in a second currency; and, in most instances, investments in foreign operations. These risks, unless properly monitored and managed, could have an adverse effect on our operations. For more information on how we manage risk relating to foreign exchange, see “Risk Management — Market Risk Management Process” on pages 39-40 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. SEGMENT INFORMATION AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR SERVICES You can find information regarding the Company’s reportable operating segments, geographic operations and classes of similar services in Note 25 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which appears on pages 108-110 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which Note is incorporated herein by reference. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY Set forth below in alphabetical order is a list of all our executive officers as of February 22, 2013. None of our executive officers has any family relationship with any other executive officer, and none of our executive officers became an officer pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with any other person. Each executive officer has been elected to serve until the next annual election of officers or until his or her successor is elected and qualified. Each officer’s age is indicated by the number in parentheses next to his or her name. DOUGLAS E. BUCKMINSTER — President, International Consumer and Global Network Services Mr. Buckminster (52) has been President, International Consumer and Global Network Services since February 2012. He has been President, International Consumer and Small Business Services of the Company since November 2009. Prior thereto he had been Executive Vice President, International Consumer Products and Marketing since July 2002. JAMES BUSH — Executive Vice President, World Service Mr. Bush (54) has been Executive Vice President, World Service since October 2009. Prior thereto, he served as Executive Vice President, U.S. Service Delivery Network since June 2005. Prior thereto, he served as Regional President for the Japan, Asia/Pacific, Australia region since September 2001. 51 Table of Contents KENNETH I. CHENAULT — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Chenault (61) has been Chairman since April 2001 and Chief Executive Officer since January 2001. L. KEVIN COX — Chief Human Resources Officer Mr. Cox (48) has been Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company since May 2012. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company since April 2005. EDWARD P. GILLIGAN — Vice Chairman Mr. Gilligan (53) has been Vice Chairman of the Company and head of the Company’s Global Consumer and Small Business Card Issuing, Network and Merchant businesses since October 2009. Prior thereto, he had been Vice Chairman of the Company and head of the Company’s Global Business to Business Group since July 2007. Prior thereto, he had been Group President, American Express International & Global Corporate Services since July 2005. WILLIAM H. GLENN — President, Global Corporate Payments and Business Travel Mr. Glenn (55) has been President, Global Corporate Payments and Business Travel since November 2011. Prior thereto, he had been President, Global Merchant Services since June 2007. Prior thereto, he had been President of Merchant Services North America and Global Merchant Network Group since September 2002. MARC D. GORDON — Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Mr. Gordon (52) has been Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer since September 2012. Mr. Gordon joined American Express from Bank of America, where he served as Enterprise Chief Information Officer from December 2011 until April 2012. Prior thereto, he had been Chief Technology Officer, Global Delivery Operation at Bank of America from May 2008 until November 2011. Prior thereto, he had been Chief Information Officer, Global Consumer Bank at Bank of America from September 2004 until April 2008. ASH GUPTA — Chief Risk Officer and President, Risk and Information Management Mr. Gupta (59) has been President of Risk and Information Management and Chief Risk Officer since July 2007. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Company since July 2003. JOHN D. HAYES — Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Mr. Hayes (58) has been Executive Vice President since May 1995 and Chief Marketing Officer of the Company since August 2003. DANIEL T. HENRY — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Henry (63) has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since October 2007. LOUISE M. PARENT — Executive Vice President and General Counsel Ms. Parent (62) has been Executive Vice President and General Counsel since May 1993. THOMAS SCHICK — Executive Vice President, Corporate and External Affairs Mr. Schick (66) has been Executive Vice President, Corporate and External Affairs since March 1993. DANIEL H. SCHULMAN — Group President, Enterprise Growth Mr. Schulman (55) has been Group President, Enterprise Growth since August 2010. Mr. Schulman joined American Express from Sprint Nextel Corporation, where he served as President of the Prepaid group from 2009 until August 2010. Before joining Sprint, Mr. Schulman was the founding CEO of Virgin Mobile USA, a mobile virtual operator, acquired by Sprint in 2009. Prior to that he was CEO of priceline.com and spent the early part of his career with AT&T, where he ultimately led the company’s consumer long distance business. JOSHUA G. SILVERMAN — President, U.S. Consumer Services Mr. Silverman (44) has been President, U.S. Consumer Services since July 2011. Before joining American Express, Mr. Silverman served as Executive in Residence for Greylock Ventures, a venture capital firm, from October 2010 until June 2011. Mr. Silverman was the Chief Executive Officer of Skype from March 2008 until October 2010. Prior to that he was a senior executive at eBay from 2003 until 2008 and was Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of Evite, the social event planning site, which he ran until it was sold to IAC in 2001. 52 Table of Contents STEPHEN J. SQUERI — Group President, Global Corporate Services Mr. Squeri (53) has been Group President, Global Corporate Services since November 2011. Prior thereto, he had been Group President, Global Services since October 2009. From May 2005 to October 2009, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer for the Company. In addition, from July 2008 to September 2010, he was the head of Corporate Development, overseeing mergers and acquisitions for the Company. Prior thereto, he had been President, Global Commercial Card since February 2002. ANRÉ WILLIAMS — President, Global Merchant Services Mr. Williams (47) has been President of Global Merchant Services since November 2011. Prior thereto, he had been President of Global Corporate Payments since June 2007. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President of U.S. Commercial Card from January 2004 through May 2007. EMPLOYEES We had approximately 63,500 employees on December 31, 2012. 53 Table of Contents GUIDE 3 — STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES The accompanying supplemental information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company’s 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. This information excludes discontinued operations unless otherwise noted. Beginning the first quarter of 2012, the Company revised the income statement reporting of annual membership card fees on lending products, increasing net card fees and reducing interest on loans. Corresponding amounts presented in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” on page 65 of the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders. Certain other reclassifications of prior period amounts have been made to conform to the current presentation. The card fees revision previously discussed and these other reclassifications did not have an impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities, and Shareholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential The following tables provide a summary of the Company’s consolidated average balances including major categories of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities along with an analysis of net interest earnings. Consolidated average balances, interest, and average yields are segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. offices. Assets, liabilities, interest income and interest expense are attributed to U.S. and non-U.S. based on location of the office recording such items. 2012 2011 2010 Years Ended December 31, AverageBalance (a) InterestIncome AverageYield AverageBalance (a) InterestIncome AverageYield AverageBalance (a) InterestIncome AverageYield (Millions, except percentages) Interest-earning assets Interest-bearing deposits in other banks (b) U.S. $ 19,495 $ 49 0.3 % $ 18,773 $ 49 0.3 % $ 16,276 $ 40 0.2 % Non-U.S. 2,224 31 1.4 2,242 30 1.3 2,203 23 1.0 Federal funds sold and securities purchasedunder agreements to resell Non-U.S. 240 10 4.2 436 19 4.4 309 12 3.9 Short-term investment securities U.S. 192 - - 406 - - 1,214 2 0.2 Non-U.S. 111 2 1.8 138 3 2.2 349 1 0.3 Cardmember loans (c) U.S. 52,907 5,354 10.1 50,512 5,086 10.1 47,700 5,293 11.1 Non-U.S. 8,594 1,114 13.0 8,622 1,157 13.4 8,419 1,251 14.9 Other loans U.S. 203 20 9.9 66 3 4.5 41 3 7.3 Non-U.S. 301 23 7.6 341 26 7.6 410 18 4.4 Taxable investment securities (d) U.S. 1,143 24 2.2 4,191 50 1.2 11,225 137 1.2 Non-U.S. 217 12 5.9 203 11 5.6 247 13 5.3 Non-taxable investment securities (d) U.S. 4,747 204 6.8 5,225 228 6.5 5,999 252 6.3 Other assets (e) Primarily U.S. 348 11 n.m. 500 34 n.m. 523 28 n.m. Total interest-earning assets (f) $ 90,722 $ 6,854 7.7 % $ 91,655 $ 6,696 7.4 % $ 94,915 $ 7,073 7.6 % U.S. 79,035 5,662 79,673 5,450 82,978 5,755 Non-U.S. 11,687 1,192 11,982 1,246 11,937 1,318 54 Table of Contents 2012 2011 2010 Years Ended December 31, (Millions, except percentages) AverageBalance (a) AverageBalance (a) AverageBalance (a) Non-interest-earning assets Cash and due from banks U.S. $ 1,884 $ 1,742 $ 1,778 Non-U.S. 612 717 640 Cardmember receivables, net U.S. 20,701 19,741 18,045 Non-U.S. 20,351 19,039 16,253 Other receivables, net U.S. 1,506 1,921 1,825 Non-U.S. 1,595 1,541 1,227 Reserves for cardmember and other loans losses U.S. (1,397 ) (2,308 ) (3,696 ) Non-U.S. (225 ) (366 ) (612 ) Other assets (g) U.S. 11,331 11,665 11,900 Non-U.S. 2,945 2,828 1,907 Total non-interest-earning assets 59,303 56,520 49,267 U.S. 34,025 32,761 29,852 Non-U.S. 25,278 23,759 19,415 Total assets $ 150,025 $ 148,175 $ 144,182 U.S. 113,060 112,434 112,830 Non-U.S. 36,965 35,741 31,352 Percentage of total average assets attributable to non-U.S. activities 24.6 % 24.1 % 21.7 % (a) Averages based on month end balances, except reserves for cardmember and other receivables/loans, which are based on quarter end averages. (b) Amounts include (i) average interest-bearing restricted cash balances of $1,102 million, $851 million and $1,570 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which are included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and (ii) the associated interest income. (c) Average non-accrual loans were included in the average loan balances used to determine the average yield on loans in amounts of $463 million, $517 million and $839 million in U.S. as well as $5 million, $7 million and $11 million in non-U.S. for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (d) Average yields for available-for-sale investment securities have been calculated using total amortized cost balances and do not include changes in fair value recorded in other comprehensive (loss) income. Average yield on non-taxable investment securities is calculated on a tax-equivalent basis using the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35 percent. (e) Amounts include (i) average equity securities balances, which are included in investment securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and (ii) the associated dividend income. The average yield on other assets has not been shown as it would not be meaningful. (f) The average yield on total interest-earning assets is adjusted for the impacts of items mentioned in (c) above. (g) Includes premises and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation. 55 Table of Contents 2012 2011 2010 Years Ended December 31, AverageBalance (a) InterestExpense AverageRate AverageBalance (a) InterestExpense AverageRate AverageBalance (a) InterestExpense AverageRate (Millions, except percentages) Interest-bearing liabilities Customer deposits U.S. $ 37,414 $ 469 1.3 % $ 32,168 $ 505 1.6 % $ 27,373 $ 522 1.9 % Non-U.S. 343 11 3.2 672 23 3.4 693 24 3.5 Short-term borrowings (b) U.S. 1,353 3 0.2 1,800 4 0.2 1,089 4 0.4 Non-U.S. 2,260 22 1.0 2,140 9 0.4 1,074 — — Long-term debt (b) U.S. 54,406 1,615 3.0 60,113 1,768 3.0 66,121 1,811 2.8 Non-U.S. 2,504 92 3.7 2,085 (2 ) 4.2 2,202 40 4.5 Other liabilities (c) Primarily U.S. 317 14 n.m. 300 13 n.m 292 22 n.m. Total interest-bearing liabilities $ 98,597 $ 2,226 2.3 % $ 99,278 $ 2,320 2.3 % $ 98,844 $ 2,423 2.5 % U.S. 93,490 2,101 94,381 2,290 94,875 2,359 Non-U.S. 5,107 125 4,897 30 3,969 64 Non-interest-bearing liabilities Travelers Cheques outstanding U.S. 4,458 5,034 5,272 Non-U.S. 165 195 254 Accounts payable U.S. 6,726 6,485 6,666 Non-U.S. 4,238 3,866 3,757 Other liabilities U.S. 12,017 11,173 10,912 Non-U.S. 4,398 4,300 3,724 Total non-interest-bearing liabilities 32,002 31,053 30,585 U.S. 23,201 22,692 22,850 Non-U.S. 8,801 8,361 7,735 Total liabilities 130,599 130,331 129,429 U.S. 116,691 117,073 117,725 Non-U.S. 13,908 13,258 11,704 Total shareholders’ equity 19,426 17,844 14,753 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 150,025 $ 148,175 $ 144,182 Percentage of total average liabilitiesattributable to non-U.S. activities 10.6 % 10.2 % 9.0 % Interest rate spread 5.4 % 5.1 % 5.1 % Net interest income and net average yieldon interest-earning assets (d) $ 4,628 5.2 % $ 4,376 4.9 % $ 4,650 5.0 % (a) Averages based on month end balances. (b) Interest expense incurred on derivative instruments in qualifying hedging relationships has been reported along with the related interest expense incurred on the hedged debt instrument. In 2011 and 2010, for long-term debt, interest expense also included income earned on forward points related to the Company’s foreign exchange swaps. This income was $41 million and $33 million in the U.S and $89 million and $60 million for non-U.S entities, respectively. For 2012 the interest has been reclassified to other, net expenses. The average rates presented exclude the effects for forward points. (c) Amounts include (i) average deferred compensation liability balances, which are included in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and (ii) the associated interest expense. The average rate on other liabilities has not been shown as it would not be meaningful. (d) Net average yield on interest-earning assets is defined as net interest income divided by average total interest-earning assets as adjusted for the items mentioned in note (d) on page 55. 56 Table of Contents Changes in Net Interest Income — Volume and Rate Analysis (a) The following table presents the amount of changes in interest income and interest expense due to changes in both average volume and average rate. Major categories of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities have been segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. offices. Average volume/rate changes have been allocated between the average rate and average volume variances on a consistent basis based upon the respective percentage changes in average balances and average rates. 2012 Versus 2011 2011 Versus 2010 Increase (Decrease)due to change in: Increase (Decrease)due to change in: Years Ended December 31, (Millions) AverageVolume AverageRate Net Change AverageVolume AverageRate Net Change Interest-earning assets Interest-bearing deposits in other banks U.S. $ 2 $ (2 ) $ - $ 6 $ 3 $ 9 Non-U.S. - 1 1 - 7 7 Securities purchased under agreements to resell Non-U.S. (9 ) - (9 ) 5 2 7 Short-term investment securities U.S. - - - (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) Non-U.S. (1 ) - (1 ) (1 ) 3 2 Cardmember loans U.S. 241 27 268 312 (519 ) (207 ) Non-U.S. (4 ) (39 ) (43 ) 30 (124 ) (94 ) Other loans U.S. 6 11 17 2 (2 ) - Non-U.S. (3 ) - (3 ) (3 ) 11 8 Taxable investment securities U.S. (37 ) 11 (26 ) (86 ) (1 ) (87 ) Non-U.S. - 1 1 (3 ) 1 (2 ) Non-taxable investment securities U.S. (35 ) 11 (24 ) (30 ) 6 (24 ) Other assets Primarily U.S. (10 ) (13 ) (23 ) (1 ) 7 6 Change in interest income 150 8 158 230 (607 ) (377 ) Interest-bearing liabilities Customer deposits U.S. 82 (118 ) (36 ) 91 (108 ) (17 ) Non-U.S. (11 ) (1 ) (12 ) (1 ) - (1 ) Short-term borrowings U.S. (1 ) - (1 ) 3 (3 ) - Non-U.S. 1 12 13 - 9 9 Long-term debt (b) U.S. (172 ) (22 ) (194 ) (168 ) 133 (35 ) Non-U.S. 17 (12 ) 5 (5 ) (8 ) (13 ) Other liabilities Primarily U.S. 1 - 1 1 (10 ) (9 ) Change in interest expense (83 ) (141 ) (224 ) (79 ) 13 (66 ) Change in net interest income $ 233 $ 149 $ 382 $ 309 $ (620 ) $ (311 ) (a) Refer to the notes on pages 55 and 56 for additional information. (b) Long-term debt volume and rate analysis does not include the impact of income earned on forward points related to the Company’s foreign exchange swaps. Refer to page 56 sub-footnote (b) for further details. 57 Table of Contents Investment Securities Portfolio The following table presents the fair value of the Company’s available-for-sale investment securities portfolio. Refer to Note 6 “Investment Securities” on page 79 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for additional information. December 31, (Millions) 2012 2011 2010 State and municipal obligations $ 4,474 $ 4,999 $ 5,797 U.S. Government agency obligations 3 354 3,413 U.S. Government treasury obligations 338 340 2,456 Corporate debt securities 79 632 1,445 Mortgage-backed securities 224 278 276 Equity securities 296 360 475 Foreign government bonds and obligations 149 130 99 Other 51 54 49 Total available-for-sale securities $ 5,614 $ 7,147 $ 14,010 The following table presents an analysis of remaining contractual maturities and weighted average yields for available-for-sale investment securities. Yields on tax-exempt obligations have been computed on a tax-equivalent basis as discussed earlier. December 31, (Millions, except percentages) 2012 Due in 1year or less Due after 1through5 years Due after 5through10 years Due after10 years Total State and municipal obligations (a) $ 6 $ 104 $ 183 $ 4,181 $ 4,474 U.S. Government agency obligations - - - 3 3 U.S. Government treasury obligations 204 113 9 12 338 Corporate debt securities 21 38 20 - 79 Mortgage-backed securities (a) - 2 - 222 224 Foreign government bonds and obligations 88 7 8 46 149 Total fair value (b) $ 319 $ 264 $ 220 $ 4,464 $ 5,267 Weighted average yield (c) 3.04 % 2.80 % 6.79 % 6.65 % 6.23 % (a) The expected payments on state and municipal obligations and mortgage-backed securities may not coincide with their contractual maturities because the issuers have the right to call or prepay certain obligations. (b) Excludes equity securities and other securities included in the prior table above as these are not debt securities with contractual maturities. (c) Average yields for available-for-sale investment securities have been calculated using the effective yield on the date of purchase. As of December 31, 2012, no investments exceeded 10 percent of shareholders’ equity. 58 Table of Contents Loans and Cardmember Receivables Portfolios The following table presents gross loans, net of unearned income, and gross cardmember receivables by customer type segregated between U.S. and non-U.S., based on the domicile of the borrowers. Allowance for losses is presented beginning on page 64. Refer to Note 4 “Accounts Receivable and Loans” on page 72 and Note 5 “Reserve for Losses” on page 77 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for additional information. December 31, (Millions) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Loans U.S. loans Cardmember (a) (b) $ 56,104 $ 53,850 $ 51,738 $ 23,699 $ 32,921 Other (c) 285 108 44 46 144 Non-U.S. loans Cardmember (b) 9,125 8,771 9,112 9,073 9,290 Other (c) 286 329 392 487 913 Total loans $ 65,800 $ 63,058 $ 61,286 $ 33,305 $ 43,268 Cardmember receivables U.S. cardmember receivables Consumer (d) 21,124 20,645 19,155 17,750 17,822 Commercial (e) 7,924 7,495 6,439 5,587 5,269 Non-U.S. cardmember receivables Consumer (d) 7,967 7,412 6,852 6,149 5,769 Commercial (e) 5,751 5,338 4,820 4,257 4,128 Total cardmember receivables $ 42,766 $ 40,890 $ 37,266 $ 33,743 $ 32,988 (a) The increase in U.S. cardmember loans between 2009 and 2010 was due to the adoption of accounting standards related to transfers of financial assets and consolidation of variable interest entities (“VIEs”), which resulted in the consolidation of the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the “Lending Trust”) beginning January 1, 2010. (b) Represents loans to individual and small business consumers. (c) Other loans primarily represent loans to merchants and a store card portfolio whose billed business is not processed on the Company’s network. Other loans at December 31, 2008, also included a loan to an affiliate in discontinued operations. (d) Represents receivables from individual and small business charge card consumers. (e) Represents receivables from corporate charge card clients. 59 Table of Contents Maturities and Sensitivities to Changes in Interest Rates The following table presents contractual maturities of loans and cardmember receivables by customer type and segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers, and distribution between fixed and floating interest rates for loans due after one year based upon the stated terms of the loan agreements. December 31, (Millions) 2012 Within1 year (a) (b) 1-5years (b) (c) After5 years (c) Total Loans U.S. loans Cardmember $ 55,964 $ 140 $ - $ 56,104 Other 207 5 73 285 Non-U.S. loans Cardmember 9,120 2 3 9,125 Other 265 21 - 286 Total loans $ 65,556 $ 168 $ 76 $ 65,800 Loans due after one year at fixed interest rates $ 168 $ 14 $ 182 Loans due after one year at variable interest rates - 62 62 Total loans $ 168 $ 76 $ 244 Cardmember receivables U.S. cardmember receivables Consumer $ 21,123 $ 1 $ - $ 21,124 Commercial 7,924 - - 7,924 Non-U.S. cardmember receivables Consumer 7,967 - - 7,967 Commercial 5,751 - - 5,751 Total cardmember receivables $ 42,765 $ 1 $ - $ 42,766 (a) Cardmember loans have no stated maturity and are therefore included in the due within one year category. However, many of the Company’s Cardmembers will revolve their balances, which may extend their repayment period beyond one year for balances due at December 31, 2012. (b) Cardmember receivables are immediately due upon receipt of Cardmember statements and have no stated interest rate and are included within the due within one year category. Receivables due after one year represent modification programs classified as Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs), wherein the terms of a receivable have been modified for Cardmembers that are experiencing financial difficulties and a long-term concession (more than 12 months) has been granted to the borrower. (c) Cardmember and other loans due after one year primarily represent installment loans and approximately $145 million of TDRs. Cardmember Loan and Cardmember Receivable Concentrations The following table presents the Company’s exposure to any concentration of gross cardmember loans and cardmember receivables which exceeds 10 percent of total cardmember loans and cardmember receivables. Cardmember loan and cardmember receivable concentrations are defined as cardmember loans and cardmember receivables due from multiple borrowers engaged in similar activities that would cause these borrowers to be impacted similarly to certain economic or other related conditions. December 31, (Millions) 2012 (a) Individuals $ 94,284 Commercial (b) $ 13,710 Total on-balance sheet $ 107,994 Unused lines of credit-individuals (c) $ 253,370 (a) Refer to Note 22 “Significant Credit Concentrations” on page 105 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for additional information on concentrations, including exposure to the airline industry, and for a discussion of how the Company manages concentration exposures. Certain distinctions between categories require management judgment. 60 Table of Contents (b) Includes corporate charge card receivables of $771 million from financial institutions, $24 million from U.S. Government agencies and $13 billion from other corporate institutions. (c) The Company’s charge card products generally have no pre-set limit, and therefore are not reflected in unused credit available to Cardmembers. Risk Elements The following table presents the amounts of non-performing loans and cardmember receivables that are either non-accrual, past due, or restructured, segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers. Past due loans are loans that are contractually past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest payments. Restructured loans and cardmember receivables are those that meet the definition of TDR. December 31, (Millions) 2012 (a) 2011 (a) 2010 (a) 2009 2008 Loans Non-accrual loans (b) U.S. $ 433 $ 529 $ 628 $ 480 $ 8 Non-U.S. 8 9 12 14 6 Total non-accrual loans 441 538 640 494 14 Loans contractually 90 days past-due and still accruing interest U.S. 77 64 90 102 692 Non-U.S. 61 70 99 151 166 Total loans contractually 90 days past-due and still accruing interest 138 134 189 253 858 Restructured loans (c) U.S. 627 736 1,076 706 403 Non-U.S. 6 8 11 15 24 Total restructured loans 633 744 1,087 721 427 Total non-performing loans $ 1,212 $ 1,416 $ 1,916 $ 1,468 $ 1,299 Cardmember receivables Restructured cardmember receivables (c) U.S. 117 174 114 94 141 Total restructured cardmember receivables $ 117 $ 174 $ 114 $ 94 $ 141 (a) The increase in non-performing loans between 2009 and 2010 was due to the adoption of accounting standards related to transfers of financial assets and consolidation of VIEs, which resulted in the consolidation of the Lending Trust beginning January 1, 2010. As a result of these changes, amounts as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 include impaired loans and receivables for both the American Express Issuance Trust (the “Charge Trust”) and the Lending Trust; correspondingly, 2009 and 2008 amounts only include impaired loans and receivables for the Charge Trust and the seller’s interest portion of the Lending Trust. (b) The Company’s policy is generally to cease accruing interest income once a related cardmember loan is 180 days past due at which time the cardmember loan is written off. The Company establishes loan loss reserves for estimated uncollectible interest receivable balances prior to write-off. For the U.S., as of December 31, 2009, these amounts primarily include certain cardmember loans placed with outside collection agencies. (c) Represents modification programs classified as TDRs, wherein the terms of a loan or receivable have been modified for Cardmembers that are experiencing financial difficulties and a concession has been granted to the borrower. Such modifications to the loans and receivables may include (i) reducing the interest rate (as low as zero percent, in which case the loan is characterized as non-accrual in the Company’s TDR disclosures), (ii) reducing the outstanding balance (in the event of a settlement), (iii) suspending delinquency fees until the Cardmember exits the TDR program, and (iv) placing the Cardmember on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. Upon entering the modification program, the Cardmember’s ability to make future purchases is either cancelled, or in certain cases suspended until the Cardmember successfully exits the modification program. In accordance with the modification agreement with the Cardmember, loans revert back to their original contractual terms (including their contractual interest rate) when the Cardmember exits the modification program, either (i) when all payments have been made in accordance with the modification agreement or (ii) the Cardmember defaults out of the modification program. 61 Table of Contents Impact of Non-performing Loans on Interest Income The following table presents the gross interest income for both non-accrual and restructured loans for 2012 that would have been recognized if such loans had been current in accordance with their original contractual terms, and had been outstanding throughout the period or since origination if held for only part of 2012. The table also presents the interest income related to these loans that was actually recognized for the period. These amounts are segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers. 2012 Year Ended December 31, (Millions) U.S. Non-U.S. Total Gross amount of interest income that would have been recorded in accordance with the original contractual terms (a) $ 109 $ 1 $ 110 Interest income actually recognized 23 - 23 Total interest revenue foregone $ 86 $ 1 $ 87 (a) Based on the contractual rate that was being charged at the time the loan was restructured or placed on non-accrual status. Potential Problem Receivables This disclosure presents outstanding amounts as well as specific reserves for certain receivables where information about possible credit problems of borrowers causes management to have serious doubts as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with the present repayment terms. At December 31, 2012, the Company did not identify any potential problem loans or receivables within the cardmember loans and receivables portfolio that were not already included in “Risk Elements” above. Cross-border Outstandings Cross-border disclosure is based upon the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council’s (“FFIEC”) guidelines governing the determination of cross-border risk. The Company has adopted the FFIEC guidelines for its cross-border disclosure starting with 2009 reporting. The primary differences between the FFIEC and Guide 3 guidelines for reporting cross-border exposure are: i) available-for-sale investment securities are reported based on amortized cost for FFIEC instead of fair value for Guide 3; ii) net local country claims are reduced by local country liabilities (regardless of currency denomination) excluding any debt that is funding the local assets through a foreign domiciled subsidiary for FFIEC compared to Guide 3 where only amounts in the same currencies are offset and such debt noted above is a reduction to local country claims; iii) the FFIEC methodology includes mark-to-market exposures of derivative assets, which are excluded under Guide 3; and iv) investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries are included under FFIEC but excluded under Guide 3. The following table presents the aggregate amount of cross-border outstandings from borrowers or counterparties for each foreign country that exceeds 1 percent of consolidated total assets for any of the periods reported below. Cross-border outstandings include loans, receivables, interest-bearing deposits with other banks, other interest-bearing investments and other monetary assets that are denominated in either dollars or other non-local currency. 62 Table of Contents The table separately presents the amounts of cross-border outstandings by type of borrower including governments and official institutions, banks and other financial institutions and other, along with an analysis of local country assets net of local country liabilities. Years Ended December 31,(Millions) Governmentsand officialinstitutions Banks andotherfinancialinstitutions Other Net localcountryclaims Totalcross-borderoutstandings Cross-bordercommitments (b) Totalexposure Australia 2012 $ - $ 56 $ 3 $ 3,877 $ 3,936 $ - $ 3,936 2011 - 115 3 4,297 4,415 - 4,415 2010 - 37 1 4,225 4,263 - 4,263 United Kingdom 2012 $ - $ 1,758 $ 525 $ 16 $ 2,299 $ - $ 2,299 2011 1 2,040 478 20 2,539 - 2,539 2010 2 1,582 345 800 2,729 - 2,729 Canada 2012 $ - $ 284 $ 37 $ 1,868 $ 2,189 $ - $ 2,189 2011 - 320 5 1,697 2,022 - 2,022 2010 - 258 3 2,212 2,473 - 2,473 Mexico 2012 $ - $ - $ 5 $ 1,643 $ 1,648 $ - $ 1,648 2011 - - 6 1,248 1,254 - 1,254 2010 - 1 5 1,348 1,354 - 1,354 Other countries (a) 2012 $ - $ 9 $ 12 $ 1,163 $ 1,184 $ - $ 1,184 2011 - 69 7 933 1,009 - 1,009 2010 - 45 8 824 877 - 877 (a) Cross-border outstandings between 0.75 percent and 1.0 percent of consolidated total assets are included in Other Countries. For comparability, countries that meet the threshold for any year presented are included for all years. For all three periods, the only country included is France. (b) Generally, all charge and credit cards have revocable lines of credit, and therefore, are not disclosed as cross-border commitments. Refer to loan concentrations on page 60 for amount of unused lines of credit. 63 Table of Contents Summary of Loan Loss Experience – Analysis of the Allowance for Loan Losses The following table summarizes the changes to the Company’s allowance for cardmember loan losses. The table segregates such changes between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers. Years Ended December 31, (Millions, except percentages) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Cardmember loans Allowance for loan losses at beginning of year – U.S. loans $ 1,611 $ 3,153 $ 2,541 $ 2,164 $ 1,457 Reserves established for consolidation of a variable interest entities - - 2,531 - - U.S. loans – adjusted balance 1,611 3,153 5,072 2,164 1,457 Non-U.S. loans 263 493 727 406 374 Total allowance for losses – beginning of year 1,874 3,646 5,799 2,570 1,831 Cardmember lending provisions (a) U.S. loans 979 169 1,291 3,276 3,490 Non-U.S. loans 170 84 236 990 741 Total cardmember lending provisions 1,149 253 1,527 4,266 4,231 Write-offs U.S. loans (1,621 ) (2,105 ) (3,614 ) (2,914 ) (2,816 ) Non-U.S. loans (309 ) (394 ) (573 ) (810 ) (708 ) Total write-offs (1,930 ) (2,499 ) (4,187 ) (3,724 ) (3,524 ) Recoveries U.S. loans 395 477 468 230 207 Non-U.S. loans 98 101 100 97 94 Total recoveries 493 578 568 327 301 Net write-offs (b) (1,437 ) (1,921 ) (3,619 ) (3,397 ) (3,223 ) Other (c) U.S. loans (91 ) (83 ) (64 ) (215 ) (174 ) Non-U.S. loans (24 ) (21 ) 3 44 (95 ) Total other (115 ) (104 ) (61 ) (171 ) (269 ) Allowance for loan losses at end of year U.S. loans 1,274 1,611 3,153 2,541 2,164 Non-U.S. loans 197 263 493 727 406 Total allowance for losses $ 1,471 $ 1,874 $ 3,646 $ 3,268 $ 2,570 Principal only net write-offs / average cardmember loansoutstanding (b) (d) 2.1 % 2.9 % 5.6 % 8.5 % 5.5 % Principal, interest and fees net write-offs / average cardmemberloans outstanding (b) (d) 2.3 % 3.3 % 6.2 % 9.8 % 6.8 % (a) Refer to Note 5 “Reserves for Losses” on page 77 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for a discussion of management’s process for evaluating allowance for loan losses. (b) The Company presents a net write-off rate based on principal losses only (i.e., excluding interest and fees) to be consistent with industry convention. In addition, because the Company’s practice is to include uncollectible interest and fees as part of its total provision for losses, a net write-off rate including principal, interest and fees is also presented. (c) These amounts include net write-offs related to unauthorized transactions and foreign currency translation adjustments. The amount for 2009 included $160 million of reserves, that were removed in the reclassification in connection with securitizations during the year. The offset is in the allocated cost of the associated retained subordinated securities. (d) Average cardmember loans are based on month end balances. 64 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the changes to the Company’s allowance for other loan losses. The table segregates such changes between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers. Years Ended December 31, (Millions, except percentages) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Other loans Allowance for loan losses at beginning of year U.S. loans $ 1 $ 2 $ 2 $ 15 $ 12 Non-U.S. loans 17 22 25 24 33 Total allowance for losses 18 24 27 39 45 Provisions for other loan losses (a) U.S. loans (1 ) - 3 5 10 Non-U.S. loans 14 13 22 45 53 Total provisions for other loan losses 13 13 25 50 63 Write-offs U.S. loans (1 ) (2 ) (4 ) (19 ) (8 ) Non-U.S. loans (16 ) (24 ) (34 ) (50 ) (72 ) Total write-offs (17 ) (26 ) (38 ) (69 ) (80 ) Recoveries U.S. loans 1 1 1 1 1 Non-U.S. loans 4 6 8 10 7 Total recoveries 5 7 9 11 8 Net write-offs (12 ) (19 ) (29 ) (58 ) (72 ) Other (b) U.S. loans - - - - - Non-U.S. loans - - 1 (4 ) 3 Total other - - 1 (4 ) 3 Allowance for loan losses at end of year U.S. loans 1 1 2 2 15 Non-U.S. loans 19 17 22 25 24 Total allowance for losses $ 20 $ 18 $ 24 $ 27 $ 39 Net write-offs/average other loans outstanding (c) 2.5 % 4.7 % 6.5 % 8.7 % 8.8 % (a) Provisions for other loan losses are determined based on a specific identification methodology and models that analyze specific portfolio statistics. (b) Includes primarily foreign currency translation adjustments. (c) The net write-off rate presented is on a worldwide basis and is based on write-offs of principal and fees. Average other loans are based on month end balances. 65 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the changes to the Company’s allowance for losses on cardmember receivables. The table segregates such changes between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers. Years Ended December 31, (Millions, except percentages) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Cardmember receivables Allowance for losses at beginning of year U.S. receivables Consumer $ 293 $ 193 $ 256 $ 474 $ 844 Commercial 33 79 93 113 104 Total U.S. receivables 326 272 349 587 948 Non-U.S. receivables Consumer 86 84 148 173 167 Commercial 26 30 49 50 34 Total non-U.S. receivables 112 114 197 223 201 Total allowance for losses 438 386 546 810 1,149 Provisions for losses (a) U.S. receivables Consumer 451 519 296 492 899 Commercial 71 26 105 106 130 Total U.S. provisions 522 545 401 598 1,029 Non-U.S. receivables Consumer 160 182 148 196 255 Commercial 60 43 46 63 79 Total non-U.S. provisions 220 225 194 259 334 Total provisions for losses 742 770 595 857 1,363 Write-offs U.S. receivables Consumer (674 ) (576 ) (528 ) (984 ) (1,326 ) Commercial (92 ) (90 ) (128 ) (154 ) (142 ) Total U.S. write-offs (766 ) (666 ) (656 ) (1,138 ) (1,468 ) Non-U.S. receivables Consumer (190 ) (187 ) (222 ) (261 ) (214 ) Commercial (67 ) (56 ) (77 ) (81 ) (57 ) Total non-U.S. write-offs (257 ) (243 ) (299 ) (342 ) (271 ) Total write-offs $ (1,023 ) $ (909 ) $ (955 ) $ (1,480 ) $ (1,739 ) 66 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, (Millions, except percentages) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Cardmember receivables Recoveries U.S. receivables Consumer $ 267 $ 225 $ 227 $ 268 $ 115 Commercial 37 42 50 29 27 Total U.S. recoveries 304 267 277 297 142 Non-U.S. receivables Consumer 54 59 55 37 34 Commercial 25 23 25 15 11 Total non-U.S. recoveries 79 82 80 52 45 Total recoveries 383 349 357 349 187 Net write-offs (b) (640 ) (560 ) (598 ) (1,131 ) (1,552 ) Other (c) U.S. receivables Consumer (64 ) (68 ) (58 ) 6 (58 ) Commercial (11 ) (24 ) (41 ) (1 ) (6 ) Total U.S. other (75 ) (92 ) (99 ) 5 (64 ) Non-U.S. receivables Consumer (25 ) (52 ) (45 ) 3 (69 ) Commercial (12 ) (14 ) (13 ) 2 (17 ) Total non-U.S. other (37 ) (66 ) (58 ) 5 (86 ) Total other (112 ) (158 ) (157 ) 10 (150 ) Allowance for losses at end of year U.S. receivables Consumer 273 293 193 256 474 Commercial 37 33 79 93 113 Total U.S. receivables 310 326 272 349 587 Non-U.S. receivables Consumer 86 86 84 148 173 Commercial 32 26 30 49 50 Total non-U.S. receivables 118 112 114 197 223 Total allowance for losses $ 428 $ 438 $ 386 $ 546 $ 810 Net write-offs / average cardmember receivables outstanding (d) 1.5 % 1.4 % 1.7 % 3.6 % 4.1 % (a) Refer to Note 5 “Reserves for Losses” on page 77 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for a discussion of management’s process for evaluating allowance for receivable losses. (b) In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in U.S. Card Services are written off to 180 days past due, consistent with applicable regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables were written off when 360 days past billing. The net write-offs for 2008 include approximately $341 million resulting from this write-off methodology change. (c) For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, trend amounts include net write-offs related to unauthorized transactions and, for all periods, foreign currency translation adjustments. (d) The net write-off rate presented is on a worldwide basis and is based on write-offs of principal and fees. Averages are based on month end balances. 67 Table of Contents Allocation of Allowance for Losses The following table presents an allocation of the allowance for losses for loans and cardmember receivables and the percent of loans and cardmember receivables in each category of total loans and cardmember receivables, respectively, by customer type. The table segregates loans and cardmember receivables and related allowances for losses between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers. December 31, (Millions, except percentages) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Allowance for losses at end of year applicable to Amount Percent ofloans/receivablesin eachcategory tototal loans/receivables Amount Percent ofloans/receivablesin eachcategory tototal loans/receivables Amount Percent ofloans/receivablesin eachcategory tototal loans/receivables Amount Percent ofloans/receivablesin eachcategory tototal loans/receivables Amount Percent ofloans/receivablesin eachcategory tototal loans/receivables Loans U.S. loans Cardmember $ 1,274 86 % $ 1,611 85 % $ 3,153 84 % $ 2,541 71 % $ 2,164 76 % Other 1 - 1 - 2 - 2 - 15 1 Non-U.S. loans Cardmember 197 13 263 14 493 15 727 28 406 22 Other 19 1 17 1 22 1 25 1 24 1 $ 1,491 100 % $ 1,892 100 % $ 3,670 100 % $ 3,295 100 % $ 2,609 100 % Cardmember receivables U.S. cardmember receivables Consumer $ 273 64 % $ 293 67 % $ 193 52 % $ 256 53 % $ 474 54 % Commercial 37 8 33 7 79 17 93 17 113 16 Non-U.S. cardmember receivables Consumer 86 20 86 20 84 18 148 18 173 17 Commercial 32 8 26 6 30 13 49 12 50 13 $ 428 100 % $ 438 100 % $ 386 100 % $ 546 100 % $ 810 100 % Customer Deposits The following table presents the average balances and average interest rates paid for types of customer deposits segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. offices. Refer to Note 9 “Customer Deposits” on page 83 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for additional information. Years Ended December 31, (Millions, except percentages) 2012 2011 2010 AverageBalance (a) AverageRate AverageBalance (a) AverageRate AverageBalance (a) AverageRate U.S. customer deposits Savings $ 26,739 0.8 % $ 21,179 1.0 % $ 12,657 1.1 % Time 10,380 2.4 10,740 2.7 14,462 2.7 Other (b) 295 0.7 249 0.8 254 0.6 Total U.S. customer deposits 37,414 1.3 32,168 1.6 27,373 1.9 Non-U.S. customer deposits (c) Other foreign time & savings 193 4.2 502 4.2 502 4.5 Other foreign demand 150 2.0 170 1.2 191 1.0 Total Non-U.S. customer deposits 343 3.2 672 3.4 693 3.5 Total customer deposits $ 37,757 1.3 % $ 32,840 1.6 % $ 28,066 1.9 % (a) Averages are based on month end balances. (b) Other U.S. customer deposits include primarily non-interest-bearing and interest-bearing demand deposits. (c) None of these customer deposit categories exceeded 10 percent of average total customer deposits for any of the periods presented. 68 Table of Contents Time Certificates of Deposit of $100,000 or More The following table presents the amount of time certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more issued by the Company in its U.S. offices, further segregated by time remaining until maturity. By remaining maturity as of December 31, 2012 (Millions) 3 monthsor less Over 3monthsbut within6 months Over 6monthsbut within12 months Over12 months Total U.S. time certificates of deposit ($100,000 or more) $ 90 $ 22 $ 168 $ 195 $ 475 As of December 31, 2012, time certificates of deposit and other time deposits in amounts of $100,000 or more issued by non-U.S. offices was $352 million. Return on Equity and Assets The following table presents the Company’s return on average total assets, return on average shareholders’ equity, dividend payout ratio, and average shareholders’ equity to average total assets ratio. Years Ended December 31, (Millions, except percentages and per share amounts) 2012 2011 2010 Net income $ 4,482 $ 4,935 $ 4,057 Net income per share – basic $ 3.91 $ 4.14 $ 3.37 Dividends declared per share $ 0.80 $ 0.72 $ 0.72 Return on average total assets (a) 3.0 % 3.3 % 2.8 % Return on average shareholders’ equity (b) 23.1 % 27.7 % 27.5 % Dividend payout ratio (c) 20.5 % 17.4 % 21.4 % Average shareholders’ equity to average total assets ratio 12.9 % 12.0 % 10.2 % (a) Based on the year’s net income as a percentage of average total assets calculated using month end average balances. (b) Based on the year’s net income as a percentage of average shareholders’ equity calculated using month end average balances. (c) Calculated on the year’s dividends declared per share as a percentage of the year’s net income per basic share. Short-term Borrowings The following table presents amounts and weighted average rates for categories of short-term borrowings. Refer to Note 10 “Debt” on page 84 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for additional information. Years Ended December 31, (Millions, except percentages) 2012 2011 2010 Commercial paper Balance at the end of the year $ - $ 608 $ 645 Monthly average balance outstanding during the year $ 400 $ 675 $ 900 Maximum month-end balance during the year $ 635 $ 792 $ 1,398 Stated rate at December 31 (a) - % 0.03 % 0.16 % Weighted average rate during the year 0.08 % 0.11 % 0.22 % Other short-term borrowings Balance at the end of the year $ 3,314 $ 3,729 $ 2,975 Monthly average balance outstanding during the year $ 3,354 $ 3,266 $ 1,247 Maximum month-end balance during the year $ 3,684 $ 3,729 $ 2,975 Stated rate at December 31 (a) 1.46 % 1.32 % 1.16 % Weighted average rate during the year (b) 0.67 % 0.42 % 0.19 % (a) For floating rate debt issuances, the stated interest rates are based on the floating rates in effect as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (b) Does not include non-interest-bearing short-term borrowings (i.e., book overdrafts). Short-term borrowings, including commercial paper and federal funds purchased, are defined as any debt instrument with an original maturity of 12 months or less. Commercial paper generally is issued in amounts not less than $100,000 and with maturities of 270 days or less. 69 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This section highlights specific risks that could affect our Company and its businesses. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and uncertainties our Company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Current Economic and Political Risks Difficult conditions in the business and economic environment, as well as political conditions in the United States and elsewhere, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by economic and market conditions, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Ongoing concerns over elevated levels of unemployment, European sovereign debt, budget discussions in Washington, decelerating growth in China and geopolitical issues continue to impact global economies and markets. This environment and the uncertain expectations for an economic recovery have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on us, in part because we are very dependent upon consumer and business behavior. A prolonged period of slow economic growth or deterioration in economic conditions could change customer behaviors further. For example, Cardmembers could decide to redeem Membership Rewards points at abnormally high levels to replace expenditures using other forms of payment. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and other energy costs, the volatility and strength of the capital markets and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, our profitability. An economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending is likely to materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the factors discussed above may cause our earnings, credit metrics and margins to fluctuate and diverge from expectations of analysts and investors, who may have differing assumptions regarding their impact on our business, and may impact the trading price of our common shares. Political or economic instability in certain regions or countries could also affect our commercial or other lending activities, among other businesses, or result in restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies. In addition, our travel network may be adversely affected by world geopolitical and other conditions. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic downturns. We held approximately $4.5 billion of investment securities of state and municipal obligations as of December 31, 2012. In the event that actual default rates of these investment securities were to significantly change from historical patterns due to challenges in the economy or otherwise, it could have a material adverse impact on the value of our investment portfolio. While we do not have any material exposure to European sovereign debt as of December 31, 2012, economic disruptions in other countries, even in countries in which we do not conduct business or have operations, could adversely affect us. If the conditions described above (or similar ones) were to persist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The global money and capital markets, while demonstrating generally improved conditions, remain susceptible to volatility and disruption, which could negatively impact market liquidity conditions. 70 Table of Contents We need liquidity to pay merchants, operating expenses, interest on debt and dividends on capital stock and to repay maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to limit our investments in growth opportunities or curtail operations. The principal sources of our liquidity are payments from Cardmembers and merchants, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash, direct and third-party sourced deposits, debt instruments such as unsecured medium- and long-term notes and asset securitizations, securitized borrowings through our secured financing facilities, the Federal Reserve discount window and long-term committed bank borrowing facilities. Policies of the United States and other governments regarding banking, monetary and fiscal policies intended to promote or maintain liquidity and/or stabilize financial markets may not be effective. Our ability to obtain financing in the debt capital markets for unsecured term debt and asset securitizations is dependent on investor demand. Notwithstanding our solid financial position, we are not immune from pressures experienced broadly across the financial markets. The fragility of the credit markets and the current economic and regulatory environment have impacted financial services companies. Although the market for our unsecured term debt and asset securitizations has improved, there is no assurance that the markets will be open to us in the future. For example, recent concerns regarding U.S. debt and budget matters and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe have caused uncertainty in financial markets. A further downgrade of U.S. debt ratings in the future could, in addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, materially adversely affect our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms, as well as have other material adverse effects on the operation of our business and our financial results and condition. The impact of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe on financial institutions in Europe and globally could also have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally. In addition, our liquidity position will be impacted by our ability to meet our objectives with respect to the maintenance and growth of our direct and third-party sourced deposit programs. We also would have less flexibility in accessing the commercial paper market as a short-term funding vehicle in the event of a downgrade in Credco’s short-term debt rating and volatility in the commercial paper market generally. In the event that current sources of liquidity, including internal sources, do not satisfy our needs, we would be required to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and consumer deposits, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, new regulatory restrictions and requirements, our credit ratings (which were downgraded in April 2009 by two of the major ratings agencies) and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders or depositors could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large credit losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to an economic downturn. While we have experienced positive credit trends since the latter half of 2009, if the performance of our charge Card and credit Card portfolios were to weaken through increasing delinquencies and write-offs, our long-term and short-term debt ratings could be downgraded and our access to capital could be materially adversely affected and our cost of capital could increase. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost to raise capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. If levels of market disruption and volatility worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a further discussion of our liquidity and funding needs, see “Financial Review — Funding Programs and Activities” on pages 32-35 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. We can be adversely affected by the impairment of other financial institutions. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies. Defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by one or more of our counterparties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 71 Table of Contents Any reduction in the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ credit ratings could increase the cost of our funding from, and restrict our access to, the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies, the ratings of that debt were downgraded during the second quarter of 2009 by Moody’s Investors Services (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), two of the major rating agencies. The rating agencies regularly evaluate the Company and its subsidiaries, and their ratings of the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including their financial strength as well as factors not entirely within their control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally, and the wider state of the economy. There can be no assurance that the Company and its subsidiaries will maintain their current respective ratings. Failure to maintain those ratings could, among other things, adversely limit our access to the capital markets and adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the Company and its subsidiaries are able to obtain funding. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take. As with other companies in the financial services industry, the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any of the rating agencies. Adverse currency fluctuations, foreign exchange controls and continued concerns regarding European sovereign debt and the continuation of the euro as a currency could decrease earnings we receive from our international operations and impact our capital. During 2012, approximately 30% of our total revenues net of interest expense were generated from activities outside the United States. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk from our international operations, and some of the revenue we generate outside the United States is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if the values of other currencies change relative to the U.S. dollar. Resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could decrease the revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Concerns persist regarding the ability of certain European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. These concerns may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate more widely than in the past and could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. If there is a significant devaluation of the euro and we are unable to hedge our foreign exchange exposure to the euro, the value of our euro-denominated net monetary assets and liabilities would be correspondingly reduced when translated into U.S. dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. Similarly, the re-introduction of certain individual country currencies or the complete dissolution of the euro could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated net monetary assets and liabilities. The re-introduction of individual country currencies would require us to reconfigure our billing and other systems to reflect individual country currencies in place of the euro. Implementing such changes could be costly and failures in the currency reconfiguration could cause disruptions in our normal business operations. In addition, foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge our market exposure to re-introduced currencies may not be immediately available or may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us. The potential developments regarding Europe and the euro, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could continue to have an adverse impact on consumer and business behavior in Europe and globally, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As discussed above, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in Europe and globally could have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally. 72 Table of Contents Legal and Regulatory Risks Ongoing legal proceedings regarding the Company’s non-discrimination and honor-all-cards provisions in merchant contracts could require changes to those provisions that could result in a material loss of revenue or increased expenses, substantial monetary judgments and/or damage to the Company’s global reputation and brand. The DOJ and certain states’ attorneys general have brought an action against the Company alleging that the provisions in the Company’s Card acceptance agreements with merchants that prohibit merchants from discriminating against the Company’s Card products at the point of sale violate the U.S. antitrust laws. Visa and MasterCard, which were also defendants in the DOJ and state action, entered into a settlement and have been dismissed as parties pursuant to that agreement, which was approved by the Court. The settlement enjoins Visa and MasterCard from entering into contracts that prohibit merchants from engaging in various actions to steer cardholders to other card products or payment forms at the point of sale. In addition, the Company is a defendant in a number of actions, including proposed class actions filed by merchants that challenge the Company’s non-discrimination and honor-all-cards provisions in its merchant contracts. A description of these legal proceedings is contained in “Legal Proceedings” below. An adverse outcome in any of these proceedings against the Company could materially and adversely impact the profitability of the Company, require it to change its merchant agreements in a way that could expose the Company’s card products to steering, selective acceptance or other forms of discrimination at the point of sale that would impair our Cardmembers’ experience, threaten the imposition of substantial monetary damages, and/or damage the Company’s global reputation and brand. Even if the Company were not required to change its merchant agreements, changes in Visa’s and MasterCard’s policies or practices as a result of legal proceedings, lawsuit settlements or regulatory actions could result in changes to our business practices and materially and adversely impact the Company’s profitability. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Dodd-Frank, as well as regulations promulgated thereunder, may continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition by, for example, requiring us to change our business practices, requiring us to comply with more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, imposing additional costs on us (including increased compliance costs and increased costs of funding raised through the issuance of asset-backed securities), limiting the fees we can charge for services, impacting the value of our assets, and increasing our collateral posting requirements on interest rate and currency swaps we enter. A description of certain provisions of Dodd-Frank and other legislative and regulatory developments is contained in “Supervision and Regulation” above. In particular, because the Company and TRS are large bank holding companies they will be subject to the restrictions discussed above under “Financial Holding Company Status and Activities — Heightened Prudential Requirements for Large Bank Holding Companies” under “Supervision and Regulation” above. Dodd-Frank has resulted in increased scrutiny and oversight of consumer financial services and products, primarily through the establishment of the CFPB. The CFPB has broad rulemaking and enforcement authority over providers of credit, savings and payment services and products and authority to prevent “unfair, deceptive or abusive” practices. The CFPB has the authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws, and to enforce those laws against and examine for compliance large financial institutions like the Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. It is also authorized to collect fines and require consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. Our compliance with such regulations could result in increased costs to the Company and may require additional attention from the Company’s senior management. Likewise, any failure to follow such regulations may result in restitution to Cardmembers or regulatory actions, including civil money penalties. In addition to increasing our compliance costs, CFPB oversight has resulted, and is likely to continue to result, in changes to pricing, practices, products and procedures and may potentially impair our ability to respond to marketplace changes. Such changes could make our products and services less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably. Such changes could also have an adverse effect on the Company’s brand and reputation. See “Litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses” below. Many provisions of Dodd-Frank, including numerous provisions not described above, require the adoption of rules to implement. In addition, Dodd-Frank mandates multiple studies, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory 73 Table of Contents action. Therefore, the ultimate consequences of Dodd-Frank and its implementing regulations on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition remain uncertain. Our business is subject to significant and extensive government regulation and supervision, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. On November 14, 2008, American Express Company and TRS each became bank holding companies under the BHC Act and elected to be treated as financial holding companies under the BHC Act. As a result of becoming a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve, including, without limitation, consolidated capital regulation at the holding company level, maintenance of certain capital and management standards in connection with our two U.S. depository institutions and restrictions on our non-banking activities, investments and acquisitions under the Federal Reserve’s regulations. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not for the protection of our shareholders or creditors. If we fail to satisfy regulatory requirements applicable to bank holding companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and we may be restricted in our ability to take certain capital actions (such as declaring dividends or repurchasing outstanding shares) or engage in certain activities or acquisitions. Additionally, our banking regulators have wide discretion in the examination and the enforcement of applicable banking statutes and regulations, and may restrict our ability to engage in certain activities or acquisitions, or may require us to maintain more capital. In addition to the regulatory risks discussed elsewhere, we are also subject to extensive government regulation and supervision in jurisdictions around the world, both as a participant in the financial services industry and otherwise. Among other things, as a result of regulators enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be fined, required to pay restitution, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subjected to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees. Regulatory action could cause significant damage to our global reputation and brand and any change to our business practices that makes our products and services less attractive to our customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, enforcement of laws in some overseas jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. As a result, the profitability of our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected. There is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses may be imposed, which could impact the profitability of our business activities, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, require us to change certain of our business practices or alter our relationships with customers, affect retention of our key personnel, or expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). Such changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 required us to make fundamental changes to many of our business practices, including marketing, underwriting, pricing and billing. We have made changes to Card product terms and practices that are designed to comply with, and mitigate the impact of the changes required by, the CARD Act; however, there is no assurance that such changes will continue to be successful. In the event the CARD Act constrains our ability to respond to economic, market and other conditions, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including our revenue and net income. Many of our competitors are subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legislative and regulatory regimes. The more restrictive laws and regulations applicable to U.S. financial institutions like us can put us at a competitive disadvantage to non-traditional players in the alternative payments space and non-U.S. competitors, including prohibiting us from engaging in certain transactions, making the pricing of our products and services more expensive or adversely affecting our cost structure. See “Supervision and Regulation” above for more information about the regulations to which we are subject. 74 Table of Contents Litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses. Businesses in the payments industry have historically been subject to significant legal actions, including class action lawsuits and patent claims. Many of these actions have included claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages. In addition, we may be involved in various actions or proceedings brought by governmental regulatory agencies in the event of noncompliance with laws or regulations, which could subject us to significant fines, penalties or other requirements resulting in increased expenses and damage to our global reputation and our brand. We may also have to change our pricing, practices, products and procedures in response to pending or future litigation or regulatory action. The current environment of additional regulation, increased regulatory compliance efforts and enhanced regulatory enforcement has resulted in significant operational and compliance costs and may limit our ability to continue providing certain products and services. In October 2012, we announced that we reached settlements with several bank regulators to resolve reviews of certain aspects of our U.S. consumer card practices for compliance with certain consumer protection laws and regulations. Similar settlements were reached with several of our subsidiaries, including Centurion Bank, AEBFSB and TRS. The American Express entities agreed to pay civil money penalties totaling $27.5 million and we, through our subsidiaries, established a restricted fund pool totaling $85 million for customer refunds (subject to adjustment depending on the ultimate amount of the refunds). The majority of those refunds are related to debt collection practices and late fee charges. In connection with the settlements, ongoing discussions with regulators and our own internal reviews, we and our subsidiaries have made and continue to make changes to certain of our card practices and products, which have resulted, and are likely to continue to result, in additional restitution to Cardmembers and may result in additional regulatory actions, which could include civil money penalties. Further action by the CFPB or other banking regulators could result in significant reputational harm or fines, or may prevent us from engaging in certain business activities that would otherwise be permitted. We are subject to capital adequacy rules, and if we fail to meet these rules, our financial condition would be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy rules and other regulatory requirements, the Company, TRS and our U.S. subsidiary depository institutions, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, must meet rules for capital adequacy and leverage ratios that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. As discussed in “Financial Holding Company Status and Activities — Capital Adequacy” under “Supervision and Regulation” above, the capital requirements applicable to the Company and TRS as bank holding companies and our U.S. subsidiary depository institutions are in the process of being substantially revised, including in connection with our transition to Basel II and as a result of Basel III and the requirements of Dodd-Frank. If the Company, TRS or our U.S. subsidiary depository institutions fail to meet current or future minimum capital, leverage or other financial requirements, their respective financial conditions would be materially adversely affected. In light of recent market events, Dodd-Frank and Basel III, the Company, TRS and our U.S. subsidiary depository institutions will be required to satisfy additional, more stringent capital adequacy standards than in the past. We cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, these regulations. Failure by any of the Company, TRS or a U.S. subsidiary depository institution to maintain its respective status as “well capitalized” and “well managed,” if unremedied over a period of time, could compromise our competitive position and could result in restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve, including limiting our ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase our common stock or invest in our business. For more information on capital adequacy requirements, see “Financial Holding Company Status and Activities — Capital Adequacy” under “Supervision and Regulation” above. We are subject to restrictions that limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our capital stock. We are limited in our ability to pay dividends by our regulators who could prohibit a dividend that would be considered an unsafe or unsound banking practice. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs, asset quality and financial condition. We are also subject to a requirement to submit capital plans that include, among other things, projected dividend payments, to the Federal Reserve for review. Guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed against, among other things, our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. A company that has not achieved Basel III capital requirements on a fully phased-in basis may have difficulty increasing dividends. 75 Table of Contents The Federal Reserve will assess the Company’s capital adequacy based on capital plans we submitted as discussed in “Financial Holding Company Status and Activities — Capital Planning” under “Supervision and Regulation” above. While the regulations ultimately applicable to the Company will be determined by the Federal Reserve, the Company estimates that, had regulations implementing Basel III been in place during the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company’s capital ratios under Basel III would have exceeded the minimum requirements. This estimate could change in the future. While we expect to meet the Basel III capital requirements, inclusive of the capital conservation buffer, as phased in by the Federal Reserve, the regulations ultimately applicable to us may be substantially different from both the Proposed Basel III Rules and the Basel III final framework as published in December 2010. Moreover, given that the federal banking agencies have delayed the effectiveness of the Proposed Basel III Rules, it cannot be certain when in the final rule as adopted will be applicable to us. Consequently, it remains uncertain how the final Basel III rules, as implemented by the federal banking agencies, will affect the Company and its subsidiaries. Additionally, stress testing requirements may have the effect of requiring the Company to comply with the Basel III capital requirements, or potentially even greater capital requirements, sooner than expected. During 2012, we repurchased 69 million shares of our common stock through our share repurchase program. On January 7, 2013, we submitted our capital plan to the Federal Reserve requesting approval to proceed with additional share repurchases in 2013. The plan includes an analysis of performance and capital availability under certain adverse economic assumptions. We expect a response from the Federal Reserve by March 14, 2013. No additional shares are expected to be repurchased prior to its response. We cannot predict whether the Federal Reserve will approve additional share purchases. American Express Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for liquidity, and federal and state law limit the amount of dividends that our subsidiaries may pay to the parent company. Limitations in the payments of dividends that American Express Company receives from its subsidiaries could also reduce our liquidity position. For more information on bank holding company dividend restrictions, see “Supervision and Regulation — Financial Holding Company Status and Activities — Dividends” above, as well as “Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity — Share Repurchases and Dividends” on page 31 and Note 23 on pages 106-107 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Banks, card issuers and card network operators generally are the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens and lead to decreased transaction volumes and revenues through our network. We are subject to regulations that affect banks and the payments industry in the United States and many other countries in which our charge and credit Cards are used and where we conduct banking and Card activities. In particular, we are subject to numerous regulations applicable to financial institutions in the United States and abroad. We are also subject to regulations as a provider of services to financial institutions. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. For example, we are subject to certain provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to maintaining effective AML programs. Increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products and services we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our charge and credit Cards may be used, and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our charge and credit Cards. In addition, Member States of the European Economic Area have implemented the Payment Services Directive for electronic payment services, including cards, that put in place a common legal framework for licensing and supervision of payment services providers, including card issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of business. The Directive is now undergoing review and further changes, as yet to be defined, are anticipated. Various regulatory agencies and legislatures are also considering regulations and legislation covering identity theft, account management guidelines, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact us directly, in part due to increased scrutiny of our underwriting standards. These new requirements may restrict our ability to issue charge and credit cards or partner with other financial institutions, which could decrease our transaction volumes. In some circumstances, new regulations and legislation could have the effect of limiting our ability to offer new types of charge or credit cards or restricting our ability to offer existing Cards, such as stored-value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth. In recent years, regulators in several countries outside the United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation of card networks, including interchange fees paid to card issuers in “four party” payment networks such as Visa 76 Table of Contents and MasterCard and the fees merchants are charged to accept cards. Regulators in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Poland, Italy, Switzerland, Hungary, the European Union, Australia, Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela, among others, have conducted interchange fee investigations that are ongoing, concluded or on appeal. In some cases these investigations have led to changes in network rules, such as non-discrimination and honor-all-card provisions. The interchange fee, which is the collectively set fee paid by the merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in “four party” payment networks, is generally the largest component of the merchant service charge charged to merchants for debit and credit card acceptance in these systems. By contrast, the American Express network does not have such interchange fees. For this reason, as well as the fact that Visa and MasterCard are the dominant card networks, the regulators’ focus has primarily been on these networks. However, antitrust actions and government regulation relating to merchant pricing could ultimately affect all networks. Among other impacts, lower interchange and/or merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for other sources of revenue such as higher annual card fees or interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by scaling back or eliminating rewards programs. Dodd-Frank prohibits payment card networks from restricting merchants from offering discounts or incentives to encourage customers to pay with particular forms of payment such as cash, check, credit or debit cards, so long as such offers do not discriminate on the basis of the network or issuer. Further, to the extent required by federal law or applicable state law, the discount or incentive must be offered to all prospective buyers and must be clearly and conspicuously disclosed. Dodd-Frank also permits U.S. merchants to establish minimum purchase amounts of no more than $10 for credit card purchases, provided that the merchants do not discriminate between networks or issuers. Federal government agencies and institutions of higher learning are also permitted to establish maximum amounts for credit card purchases provided they do not discriminate between networks or issuers. As a result of this law, customers may be incentivized by merchants to move away from the use of charge and credit card products to other forms of payment, such as debit, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In Europe, some countries such as Italy and Poland have proposed or adopted regulation of interchange or merchant fees. In January 2012, the EC published a Green Paper (a document to begin a process of consultation toward potential regulation) covering a range of issues affecting the payments industry. The Green Paper contemplates direct regulation of interchange fees as well as changes to non-discrimination and honor-all-cards rules and to regulation of surcharging. Other issues covered in the Green Paper include separation of processing from card network management, perceived barriers to cross-border acquiring, mobile payments and technical standardization. The EC has completed a consultation period and is expected to issue its preliminary conclusions in early of 2013. These conclusions may involve proposals for regulation or recommendations for self-regulation and could take another 18-24 months to adopt and implement. See “An increasing prevalence of surcharging by merchants could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations” below. Increased regulatory focus on the Company, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may increase our compliance costs or result in a reduction of transactions processed on our networks or merchant discount revenues from such transactions, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, and invest successfully in, and compete at the leading edge of, technological developments across all our businesses, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected. Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. In order to compete in our industry, we need to continue to invest in business process and technology advances across all areas of our business, including in transaction processing, data management and analysis, customer interactions and communications, travel reservations systems, prepaid products, alternative payment mechanisms and risk management and compliance systems. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our Cards, networks and other services. Because of evolving payments technologies and the competitive landscape, we may not, among other things, be successful in increasing or maintaining our share of online spending and enhancing our Cardmembers’ digital experience, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We also expect increased regulatory and legal scrutiny and requirements with respect to data privacy and protection in connection with these new technologies. Our ability to develop, acquire or access competitive technologies or business processes on acceptable terms may be limited by patent rights that third parties, including competitors and potential competitors, may assert. In addition, our ability to adopt new technologies may be 77 Table of Contents inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance to change from Cardmembers or merchants, by the complexity of our systems or by intellectual property rights of third parties. We rely on a variety of measures to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, including copyrights, trademarks, patents and controls on access and distribution. These measures may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information and a resulting loss of competitive advantage. In addition, competitors or other third parties may allege that our systems, processes or technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. Given the complex, rapidly changing and competitive technological and business environment in which we operate, and the potential risks and uncertainties of intellectual property-related litigation, we cannot assure you that a future assertion of an infringement claim against us will not cause us to lose significant revenues, incur significant license, royalty or technology development expenses, or pay significant monetary damages. Regulation in the areas of privacy, information security and data protection could increase our costs and affect or limit how we collect and/or use personal information and our business opportunities. We are subject to various applicable Privacy, Information Security and Data Protection Laws, including requirements concerning security breach notification, and we could be negatively impacted by them. For example, in the United States, certain of our businesses may be subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and implementing regulations and guidance. Among other things, the GLBA imposes certain limitations on the ability of financial institutions to share consumers’ nonpublic personal information with nonaffiliated third parties; requires that financial institutions provide certain disclosures to consumers about their data collection, sharing and security practices and affords customers the right to “opt out” of the institution’s disclosure of their personal financial information to nonaffiliated third parties (with limited exceptions); and requires financial institutions to develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities, and the sensitivity of customer information processed by the financial institution. For more information on the GLBA and various state laws, see “Privacy and Data Protection” under “Supervision and Regulation” above. Various U.S. federal banking regulatory agencies, states and foreign jurisdictions have enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory and/or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Many of these requirements also apply broadly to merchants that accept our Cards and our business partners. In many countries that have yet to impose data security breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to encourage voluntary notification and discourage data security breaches. In addition, legislators and/or regulators in the United States and other countries in which we operate are increasingly adopting or revising Privacy, Information Security and Data Protection Laws that potentially could have significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer and/or employee information, and some of our current or planned business activities. This also could increase our costs of compliance and business operations and could reduce revenues from certain business initiatives. There is also increasing enforcement activity in the areas of data protection, privacy and/or information security in various countries in which we operate. For example, in the United States, during 2012 the FTC and the White House issued reports pertaining to consumer privacy. The FTC’s report, which applies to a company’s collection and use of consumer information both online and offline, indicates certain privacy principles that at least one key U.S. regulator (the FTC) expects companies to adhere to as “best practices.” These include, for example, greater transparency and “privacy-by-design” (i.e. building reasonable protections into data collection, retention, and management procedures). The White House report sets administration positions, including calling on Congress to enact new consumer protections with respect to commercial data practices in the form of a “Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights” and a national data breach notification standard that preempts the existing patchwork of state standards. In recent years there also has been increasing enforcement activity in the areas of privacy, information security and data protection in the United States, including at the federal level by the FTC, as well as increased privacy-related enforcement activity at the state level, including in California, such as with regard to mobile applications. The U.S. House of Representatives and Senate considered a number of draft privacy, security breach notification, cybersecurity and 78 Table of Contents information-security related bills during the 112th Congress and various committee hearings were held on related subjects. There also continues to be legislative activity in these areas at the state level. In the European Union, the European Data Protection Directive, which obligates the controller of an individual’s personal data to, among other things, take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data, has been implemented through local laws in Member States. As these laws are interpreted throughout the European Union, compliance costs are increasing, particularly in the context of ensuring that adequate data protection and data transfer mechanisms are in place. The European Commission proposed in January 2012 a new regulation to replace the current Data Protection Directive that, among other things, would tighten data protection requirements and make enforcement more rigorous, for example, by streamlining enforcement at a European level, introducing data breach notification requirements and increasing penalties for non-compliance. The proposed regulation may be finalized in late 2013 with an effective date 18-24 months thereafter. This proposed regulation follows the implementation of the European Union’s e-Privacy Directive, which imposes consent requirements on the use of “cookies” for certain purposes such as online behavioral advertisement. Compliance with current or future Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws (including those regarding security breach notification) affecting customer and/or employee data to which we are subject could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to fully exploit our closed-loop capability or provide certain products and services, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our failure to comply with Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws could result in potentially significant regulatory and/or governmental investigations and/or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions and damage to our global reputation and our brand. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our executive officers and other key personnel, and the loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and other key personnel. Our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. Our senior management team is relatively small and we believe we are in a critical period of competition in the financial services and payments industry. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. As further described in “Supervision and Regulation — Compensation Practices” above, our compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve and the compensation practices of our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries are subject to review and oversight by the FDIC and the OCC. As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices, which may or may not affect our competitors, by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or other regulators worldwide. These limitations, including limitations on any incentive compensation policies pursuant to Dodd-Frank, could further affect our ability to attract and retain our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business. Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in jurisdictions throughout the world. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments, and of various foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative initiatives may be proposed, such as proposals for fundamental tax reform in the United States, which may impact our effective tax rate and could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as foreign, tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our historical tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in defending our position in connection with any such challenge. Business Risks Our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the payments industry. The payments industry is highly competitive and includes, in addition to charge, credit and debit card networks and issuers, cash, credit and ACH, as well as evolving alternative payment mechanisms, systems and products, such as 79 Table of Contents aggregators (e.g., PayPal, Square and Amazon), wireless payment technologies (including using mobile telephone networks to carry out transactions), prepaid systems and systems linked to payment cards, and bank transfer models. We are the fourth largest general-purpose card network on a global basis based on purchase volume, behind Visa, MasterCard and China UnionPay. We believe Visa and MasterCard are larger than we are in most countries. As a result, competitive card issuers and acquirers on the Visa and MasterCard networks may be able to benefit from the dominant position, resources, marketing and pricing of Visa and MasterCard. Because of consolidations among banking and financial services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by major card issuers, there are now a smaller number of significant issuers. Continuing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a financial institution with a strong relationship with us being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in a potential loss of business for us. The largest competing issuers have continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card portfolios, and also by cross-selling through their retail branch networks, and competition among all issuers remains intense. We are also subject to increasing pricing pressure from our competitors. In addition, some of our competitors have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, including larger cash reserves, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition, co-brand card programs or merchant acceptance than we have. We may not continue to be able to compete effectively against these threats or respond or adapt to changes in consumer spending habits as effectively as our competitors. Our competitors may also be more efficient in introducing innovative products, programs and services on different platforms than we are. Spending on our charge and credit Cards could continue to be impacted by increasing consumer usage of debit cards issued on competitive networks. Internationally, competition remains fierce, and as a result, we may not be successful in accelerating our growth outside of the United States through proprietary consumer, small business and corporate products, GNS partners and alternative payment vehicles. New technologies, together with the portability provided by smartphones and tablets and evolving consumer behavior with social networking, are rapidly changing the way people interact with each other and transact business all around the world. In this connection, traditional and non-traditional competitors such as mobile telecommunications companies and aggregators are working to deliver digital and mobile payment services for both consumers and merchants. In the United States, alternative payment vehicles that seek to redirect customers to payment systems based on ACH continue to emerge and grow, and existing debit networks also continue to expand both on- and off-line and are making efforts to develop online PIN functionality, which could further reduce the relative use of charge and credit cards online. To the extent alternative payment mechanisms, systems and products continue to successfully expand in the online payments space, our discount revenues and our ability to access transaction data through our closed-loop network could be negatively impacted. The Company’s Enterprise Growth Group focuses on this strategic challenge by generating alternative sources of revenue on a global basis in areas such as online and mobile payments and fee-based services. While expanding the Enterprise Growth Group is a top priority for the Company, many of the growth initiatives will involve new areas for the Company and we may not be successful in executing our strategy. Our failure to expand Enterprise Growth and drive adoption of new products and services, including new technology and payment options that we offer, would negatively impact our future growth. To the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we may face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with relevant customers, regulators and industry participants, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. Laws and business practices that favor local competitors, require card transactions to be routed over domestic networks or prohibit or limit foreign ownership of certain businesses could slow our growth in international regions. Further, expanding our service offerings, adding customer acquisition channels and forming new partnerships could have higher cost structures than our current arrangements, adversely impact our average discount rate or dilute our brand. Regulators have recently put forward various proposals that may impact our businesses, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose taxes or fees on certain financial institutions. These or similar proposals, which may not apply to all of our competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. 80 Table of Contents We face increasingly intense competitive pressure that may impact the prices we charge merchants that accept our Cards for payment for goods and services. Unlike our competitors in the payments industry that rely on high revolving credit balances to drive profits, our business model is focused on Cardmember spending. Discount revenue, which represents fees charged to merchants when Cardmembers use their Cards to purchase goods and services on our network, is primarily driven by billed business volumes and is our largest single revenue source. In recent years, we have been under market pressure, including pressure created by regulatory-mandated reductions to competitors’ pricing, to reduce merchant discount rates and undertake other repricing initiatives. In addition, differentiated payment models from non-traditional players in the alternative payments space and the regulatory and litigation environment could pose challenges to our traditional payment model and adversely impact our average discount rate. A continuing priority of ours is to drive greater value to our merchants, which if not successful could negatively impact our discount revenue and financial results. If we continue to experience a decline in the average merchant discount rate or are unable to sustain merchant discount rates on our Cards and have overall volume growth or an increase in merchant coverage and activation, our revenues and profitability, and therefore our ability to invest in innovation and in value-added services to merchants and Cardmembers, could be materially and adversely affected. An increasing prevalence of surcharging by merchants could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. While our Card acceptance agreements with merchants generally do not prohibit merchants from surcharging our Cardmembers, merchants are encouraged to welcome our Cardmembers and are obliged to comply with applicable laws and our card acceptance agreements, including any non-discrimination provisions in our agreements. There are certain countries in which surcharging is specifically permitted, such as Australia and certain countries in the European Union. In Australia, we have seen selective, but increasing, merchant surcharging on American Express Cards in certain merchant categories and, in some cases, on a basis that is greater than that applied to cards issued on the bankcard networks, which is known as differential surcharging. New rules issued by the Reserve Bank of Australia in 2012 allow us and other payment networks to prohibit merchants from surcharging by more than their reasonable costs of accepting a particular payment card. This could lead to an increase in higher surcharges on American Express Cards when compared to cards issued by other issuers or on other networks. In addition, the proposed settlement by MasterCard and Visa of their U.S. merchant class litigation, which was preliminarily approved in November 2012, requires MasterCard and Visa to permit U.S. merchants to surcharge MasterCard and Visa credit card transactions under certain terms and subject to certain conditions, while permitting the networks to continue to prohibit surcharges on debit card transactions. MasterCard and Visa have announced revised network rules that went into effect on January 27, 2013 that prohibit merchants that also accept American Express Cards from implementing surcharges of MasterCard and/or Visa credit card transactions unless they also surcharge American Express transactions in a manner that would violate the non-discrimination provisions generally agreed to by most merchants that accept Cards on the American Express network (i.e., by surcharging American Express transactions but not surcharging MasterCard and Visa debit card transactions). This may encourage merchants that currently accept American Express Cards to either violate their Card acceptance agreements with American Express or to discontinue acceptance of American Express Cards. If this occurs, it could materially and adversely affect American Express merchant coverage and Charge volumes. If surcharging becomes widespread, American Express Cards and credit and charge cards generally could become less desirable to consumers, which could result in a decrease in Cards in force and transaction volumes. The impact could vary depending on the manner in which a surcharge is levied and whether surcharges are levied upon all payment cards, whether debit cards are excluded, or whether the amount of the surcharge varies depending on the card, network, acquirer or issuer. Surcharging could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly to the extent surcharging disproportionately impacts American Express Cardmembers. We may not be successful in our efforts to promote Card usage through our marketing, promotion and rewards programs, or to effectively control the costs of such programs, both of which may impact our profitability. Our business is characterized by the high level of spending by our Cardmembers. Increasing consumer and business spending and borrowing on our payment services products, particularly credit and charge Cards and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products, and growth in Card lending balances, depend in part on our ability to develop and issue new or enhanced Card and prepaid products and increase revenues from such products. One of the ways in which we attract new Cardmembers, reduce Cardmember attrition and seek to retain or capture a greater share of customers’ total spending on 81 Table of Contents Cards issued on our network, both in the United States and in our international operations, is through our Membership Rewards program, as well as other Cardmember benefits. We may not be able to cost-effectively manage and expand Cardmember benefits, including containing the growth of marketing, promotion and rewards expenses and Cardmember services expenses. For example, Cardmembers’ increased engagement with our Membership Rewards program drove an increase in the ultimate redemption rate to 94 percent in 2012 from 92 percent in 2011, which resulted in higher rewards expenses in 2012. In addition, many credit card issuers have instituted rewards and co-brand programs that are similar to ours, and issuers may in the future institute programs that are more attractive to Cardmembers than our programs. If we continue to increase our investments in marketing, promotion and rewards programs, we will need to find ways to offset the financial impact by increasing payments volume, the amount of fee-based services we provide or both. We may not succeed in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. Our brand and reputation are key assets of our Company, and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. Our brand and its attributes are key assets of the Company, and we believe our continued success depends on our ability to preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brand. Our ability to attract and retain consumer and small business Cardmembers and corporate clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business practices, financial condition and other subjective qualities. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters — even if related to seemingly isolated incidents — could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation among existing and potential Cardmembers and corporate clients, which could make it difficult for us to attract new Cardmembers and maintain existing ones. Negative public opinion could also result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities or circumstances, including card practices, regulatory compliance and the use and protection of customer information, and from actions taken by regulators or others in response to such conduct. Social media channels can also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brand. Our brand and reputation may also be harmed by actions taken by third parties that are outside our control. For example, any shortcoming of a third-party vendor or GNS partner that issues Cards and acquires merchants on the American Express network may be attributed by Cardmembers and merchants to us, thus damaging our reputation and brand value. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. Furthermore, as a corporation with headquarters and operations located in the United States, a negative perception of the United States arising from its political or other positions could harm the perception of our company and our brand. Although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. If we cannot successfully execute on our strategy, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted. We may not be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. These strategic initiatives are designed to improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: • Increasing plastic penetration, including by growing our share of premium and small business spend and B2B payments • Continuing to expand internationally through proprietary and GNS offerings • Expanding our presence in the digital payments space, including online and mobile channels • Successfully leveraging our brand in the prepaid space • Growing our existing fee-based businesses such as insurance products and other services and introducing new business initiatives to increase fee revenue The process of developing new products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. 82 Table of Contents We also continue to pursue a disciplined expense-management strategy, including restructuring operations. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to control the growth of expenses in the future, particularly as expenses incurred in our foreign entities are subject to foreign exchange volatility and regulatory compliance and legal and related costs are difficult to predict or control, particularly given the current regulatory and litigation environment. Moreover, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs of investing in our businesses. These investments may not be as productive as we expect or at all. We may not be successful in realizing the benefits associated with our investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and investment activity. We have recently acquired a number of businesses, including our acquisitions of Serve, Accertify and Loyalty Partner, and made a number of strategic investments. We may also evaluate other potential transactions. These transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, value potential investment or acquisition opportunities accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those opportunities, and complete proposed acquisitions and investments. Our failure to successfully integrate acquired companies, businesses or technologies into our existing operations could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or investment, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. A significant disruption or breach in the security of our information technology systems or an increase in fraudulent activity using our Cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and significant legal, regulatory and financial exposure and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit Cards. We and other third parties process, transmit and store Cardmember account information in connection with our charge and credit Cards, and in the normal course of our business, we collect, analyze and retain significant volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers and employees. Information security risks for large financial institutions like us have generally increased in recent years. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture various types of information relating to Cardmembers’ accounts, including Membership Rewards accounts, to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft, and to expose and exploit potential security and privacy vulnerabilities in corporate systems and Web sites. As outsourcing and specialization of functions within the payments industry increase, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our Cards and there is a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties, including merchants that accept our Cards and our business partners, may be compromised. We develop and maintain systems and processes to detect and prevent data breaches and fraudulent activity, but the development and maintenance of these systems are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies and regulatory requirements change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Despite our efforts, the possibility of data breaches, malicious social engineering and fraudulent or other malicious activities cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with each of these remain. Our information technology systems, including our transaction authorization, clearing and settlement systems, may experience service disruptions or degradation because of technology malfunction, sudden increases in customer transaction volume, natural disasters, accidents, power outages, telecommunications failures, fraud, denial-of-service and other cyber attacks, terrorism, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events. Service disruptions could prevent access to our online services and account information, compromise Company or customer data, and impede transaction processing and financial reporting. Inadequate infrastructure in lesser developed countries could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those countries. If our information technology systems experience a significant disruption or breach or if actual or perceived fraud levels or other illegal activities involving our Cards were to rise due to the actions of third parties, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, it could lead to regulatory intervention (such as mandatory card reissuance), increased litigation and remediation costs, greater concerns of customers and/or business partners relating to the privacy and security of their data, and reputational and financial damage to our brand, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our Cards, and have a material adverse impact on our business. Data breaches and other actual or perceived failures to maintain confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data may also negatively impact the assessment of the Company, TRS and its U.S. banking subsidiaries by banking regulators. 83 Table of Contents We have agreements with business partners in a variety of industries, including the airline industry, that represent a significant portion of our business. We are exposed to risks associated with these industries, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, consolidations and alliances of our partners, and the possible obligation to make payments to our partners. In the ordinary course of our business we enter into different types of contractual arrangements with business partners in a variety of industries. For example, we have partnered with Costco and Delta Air Lines to offer co-branded cards for consumers and small businesses, and through our Membership Rewards program we have partnered with businesses in many industries, including the airline industry, to offer benefits to Cardmember participants. Under some types of these contractual arrangements, we may be obligated to make or accelerate payments to certain business partners such as co-brand partners and merchants upon the occurrence of certain triggering events such as: (i) our filing for bankruptcy, (ii) our economic condition deteriorating such that our senior unsecured debt rating is downgraded significantly below investment grade by S&P and Moody’s, (iii) our ceasing to have a public debt rating, or (iv) a shortfall in certain performance levels. If we are not able to effectively manage the triggering events, we could unexpectedly have to make payments to these partners, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we have credit risk to certain co-brand partners relating to our prepayments for loyalty program points that may not be fully redeemed. We are also exposed to risk from bankruptcies, liquidations, insolvencies, financial distress, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events that may occur in any industry representing a significant portion of our billed business, which could negatively impact particular card products and services (and billed business generally) and our financial condition and results of operations. For example, we could be materially impacted if we were obligated to or elected to reimburse Cardmembers for products and services purchased from merchants that have ceased operations or stopped accepting our Cards. The airline industry represents a significant portion of our billed business and in recent years has undergone bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events. The airline industry accounted for approximately 10 percent of our worldwide billed business for the year ended December 31, 2012. There continues to be significant consolidation in the airline industry, particularly in the United States (e.g., American/US Airway and United Airlines/Continental Airlines), through mergers and/or grants of antitrust immunity to airline alliances and joint ventures, and this trend could continue. In particular, the United States Department of Transportation has granted antitrust immunity to members of the Skyteam, Star and Oneworld Alliances, enabling the covered airlines to closely coordinate their cross-regional operations and to launch highly integrated joint ventures in transatlantic and other markets, including jointly pricing and managing capacity on covered routes, sharing revenues and costs, and coordinating sales and corporate contracts, all outside the scope of the U.S. antitrust laws. The EC has similarly approved the Oneworld Alliance, and its review of the other alliances and cooperation between alliance members is continuing. Increasing consolidation and expanded antitrust immunity could create challenges for our relationships with the airlines including reducing our profitability on our airline business. Further consolidation may also result from airline bankruptcies, which could be an outcome of American Airline’s pending case under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Airlines are also some of the most important and valuable partners in our Membership Rewards program. If a participating airline merged with an airline that did not participate in Membership Rewards, the combined airline would have to determine whether or not to continue participation. Similarly, if one of our co-brand airline partners merged with an airline that had a competing co-brand card, the combined airline would have to determine which co-brand cards it would offer. Our largest airline co-brand loan portfolio, American Express’ Delta SkyMiles Credit Card, accounted for less than 15 percent of worldwide Cardmember loans as of December 31, 2012. If an airline determined to withdraw from Membership Rewards or to cease offering an American Express co-brand Card, whether as the result of a merger or otherwise, such as the withdrawal of Continental Airlines in 2011 from our Airport Club Access program for Centurion and Platinum Cardmembers and our Membership Rewards points transfer program, our business could be adversely affected. For additional information relating to the general risks related to the airline industry, see “Risk Management — Exposure to Airline Industry” on page 38 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference. 84 Table of Contents Our reengineering and other cost control initiatives may not prove successful, and we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended. Many factors can influence the amount of our expenses, as well as how quickly they may increase. Our ongoing investments, which may be necessary to maintain a competitive business, may increase our expenses. We have regularly undertaken, and are currently undertaking, a variety of efforts to reengineer our business operations in order to achieve cost savings and other benefits (including the reinvestment of such savings in key areas such as marketing, promotion, rewards and infrastructure), enhance revenue-generating opportunities and improve our operating expense to revenue ratio both in the short-term and over time. These efforts include cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing functions (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower-cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the Internet and mobile channels to save costs and planned staff reductions relating to certain of these reengineering actions. If we do not successfully achieve these efforts in a timely manner or if we are not able to capitalize on these efforts, or if the actions taken ultimately come at the expense of operational efficiency, we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended. Failure to achieve these benefits or successfully manage our expenses could have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to achieve our previously announced financial targets. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established policies and procedures intended to identify, monitor and manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance risk and reputational risk. See “Risk Management” on pages 37- 40 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for a discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify, monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses. Although we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future, these policies and procedures, as well as our risk management techniques such as our hedging strategies, may not be fully effective. In addition, as regulations and markets in which we operate continue to evolve, our risk management framework may not always keep sufficient pace with those changes. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models we use to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur increased losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. We must effectively manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans and settlement risk with regard to GNS partners, merchant bankruptcies, the rate of bankruptcies, and other credit trends that can affect spending on Card products, debt payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses that accept our Card products. Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. We are exposed to both consumer credit risk, principally from Cardmember receivables and our other consumer lending activities, and institutional credit risk from merchants, GNS partners and GCP clients. Third parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Country, regional and political risks are components of credit risk. Our ability to assess creditworthiness may be impaired if the criteria or models we use to manage our credit risk become less predictive of future losses, which could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future write-offs and may require us to increase our reserve for loan losses. Although delinquencies and charge-offs declined in 2012, we believe we are experiencing historical lows in these rates and they are likely to increase. In addition, if economic conditions do not improve, these rates may increase more than expected. Higher write-off rates and an increase in our reserve for loan losses adversely affect our profitability and the performance of our securitizations, and may increase our cost of funds. In addition, our ability to recover amounts that we have previously written off may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. Although we make estimates to provide for credit losses in our outstanding portfolio of loans and receivables, these estimates may not be accurate. In addition, the information we use in managing our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete. Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that 85 Table of Contents are difficult to foresee or detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the credit risks of our customers. Increased credit risk, whether resulting from underestimating the credit losses inherent in our portfolio of loans and receivables, deteriorating economic conditions or otherwise, could require us to increase our provision for losses and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We must also effectively manage market risk to which we are exposed. Market risk represents the loss in value of portfolios and financial instruments due to adverse changes in market variables. We are exposed to market risk from interest rates in our Card business and in our investment portfolios. Changes in the interest rates at which we borrow and lend money affect the value of our assets and liabilities. If the rate of interest we pay on our borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans, our net interest yield, and consequently our net income, could fall. We must also accurately estimate the fair value of certain of our assets and our liabilities and, in particular, those investments that are not readily marketable, including our investment portfolio and derivative instruments. Additionally, we must effectively manage liquidity risk to which we are exposed. Liquidity risk is defined as the inability to access cash and equivalents needed to meet business requirements and satisfy our obligations. If we are unsuccessful in managing our liquidity risk, we may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit financial flexibility; or we may be too illiquid, which could result in financial distress during a liquidity event. For additional information regarding our management of liquidity risk, see “Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital” above. Finally, we must also manage the operational and compliance risks to which we are exposed. We consider operational risk to be the risk of not achieving business objectives due to inadequate or failed processes or information systems, poor data quality, human error or the external environment (i.e., natural disasters). Operational risk includes, among others, the risk that employee error or intentional misconduct could result in a material financial misstatement; a failure to monitor an outsource partner’s compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements; or a failure to adequately monitor and control access to data in our systems we grant to third-party service providers. As processes are changed, or new products and services are introduced, we may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. Compliance risk arises from the failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules, regulations and internal policies and procedures. Operational and compliance risks can expose us to reputational risks as well as fines, civil money penalties or payment of damages and can lead to diminished business opportunities and diminished ability to expand key operations. An inability to accept or maintain deposits due to market demand or regulatory constraints could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business. As a source of funding, our U.S. banking subsidiaries accept deposits from individuals through third-party brokerage networks as well as directly from consumers through American Express Personal Savings. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $39.7 billion in total U.S. retail deposits. Many other financial services firms are increasing their use of deposit funding, and as such we may experience increased competition in the deposit markets, particularly as to brokerage networks. We cannot predict how this increased competition will affect deposit renewal rates, costs or availability. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted. Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits also is dependent on capital levels of our U.S. banking subsidiaries. The FDIA generally prohibits a bank, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless (1) it is well capitalized or (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. The majority of the Company’s outstanding U.S. retail deposits has been raised through third-party brokerage networks, and such deposits are considered brokered deposits for bank regulatory purposes, although a majority of the deposits raised during 2012 were accepted directly from consumers through American Express Personal Savings. A bank that is less than well capitalized generally may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including direct-to-consumer deposits, in excess of 75 basis points over the national rate published by the FDIC unless the FDIC determines that the bank is operating in a high-rate area. An adequately capitalized insured depository institution may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless it has applied for and been granted a waiver of this prohibition by the FDIC. Undercapitalized depository institutions may not solicit deposits by offering interest rates that are significantly higher than the prevailing rates of interest on insured deposits in such institution’s normal market areas or in the 86 Table of Contents market area in which such deposits would otherwise be accepted. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is well capitalized (provided such bank is not subject to a capital maintenance provision within a written agreement, consent order, order to cease and desist, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by its federal regulator). If a depository institution’s federal regulator determines that it is in an unsafe or unsound condition or is engaging in unsafe or unsound banking practices, the regulator may reclassify a well capitalized institution as adequately capitalized, require an adequately capitalized institution to comply with certain restrictions as if it were undercapitalized, and require an undercapitalized institution take certain actions applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions. While Centurion Bank and AEBFSB were considered “well capitalized” for these purposes as of December 31, 2012, there can be no assurance that they will continue to meet this definition. Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. banking agencies and fully phased in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. Additionally, our regulators can adjust the requirements to be well capitalized at any time and have authority to place limitations on our deposit businesses, including the interest rate we pay on deposits. An inability to attract or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business. We rely on third-party providers of various computer systems, platforms and other services integral to the operations of our businesses. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. We operate a service network around the world. In order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors many of the computer systems and other services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses. A significant amount of this outsourcing occurs in developing countries. We also rely on third parties to interact with our customers, including through social media platforms and mobile technologies. We are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. A failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider’s compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in economic and reputational harm to us. There is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. In addition, the management of multiple third-party vendors increases our operational complexity and decreases our control. It is also possible that the cost efficiencies of certain outsourcings will decrease as the demand for these services increases around the world. Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers, merchants, processors, aggregators, GNS partners and other third parties for the timely transmission of accurate information across our global network. If a service provider fails to provide the data quality, communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or other cybersecurity incidents or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. See “A significant disruption or breach in the security of our information technology systems or an increase in fraudulent activity using our Cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and significant legal, regulatory and financial exposure and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit Cards” above. Our business is subject to the effects of geopolitical events, weather, natural disasters and other conditions. Geopolitical events, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, severe weather conditions, health pandemics, intrusion into or degradation of our infrastructure by hackers and other catastrophic events can have a negative effect on our business. Because of our proximity to the World Trade Center, our headquarters were damaged as a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Similar events or other disasters or catastrophic events in the future could have a negative effect on our businesses and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. Because we derive a portion of our revenues from travel-related spending, our business will be sensitive to safety concerns, and thus is likely to decline during periods in which travelers become concerned about safety issues or when travel might involve health-related risks. In addition, disruptions in air travel and other forms of travel caused by such events can result in the payment of claims under travel interruption insurance policies that we offer and, if such disruptions to travel are prolonged, they can materially adversely affect overall travel-related spending. If the conditions described above (or similar ones) result in widespread or lengthy disruptions to travel, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Cardmember spending may also be negatively impacted in areas affected by natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The impact of such events on the overall economy may also adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 87 Table of Contents Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements We have made various statements in this Report that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may also be made in our other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, in our press releases and in other documents. In addition, from time to time, we, through our management, may make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those identified above and on pages 54-56 of the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “optimistic,” “intend,” “plan,” “aim,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “likely” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We caution you that the risk factors described above and in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders are not exclusive. There may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 