ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE DUE TO A NUMBER OF FACTORS, MANY OF WHICH ARE BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our annual and quarterly results may vary significantly depending on factors, including: o adverse changes in general economic conditions o the level and timing of customer orders and the accuracy of their forecasts o the level of capacity utilization of our manufacturing facility and associated fixed costs o the composition of the costs of revenue between materials, labor and manufacturing overhead o price competition o our level of experience in manufacturing a particular product o the degree of automation used in our assembly process o the efficiencies achieved in managing inventories and fixed assets o fluctuations in materials costs and availability of materials o the timing of expenditures in anticipation of increased sales, customer product delivery requirements and shortages of components or labor. The volume and timing of orders placed by our customers may vary due to variation in demand for our customers' products, our customers' inventory management, new product introductions and manufacturing strategy changes, and consolidations among our customers. In the past, changes in customer orders have had a significant effect on our results of operations due to corresponding changes in the level of overhead absorption. Any one or a combination of these factors could adversely affect our annual and quarterly results of operations in the future. Page 5 of 38 BECAUSE WE DEPEND ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS, A REDUCTION IN SALES TO ANY ONE OF OUR CUSTOMERS COULD CAUSE A SIGNIFICANT DECLINE IN OUR REVENUE. A small number of customers are responsible for a significant portion of our net sales. During fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, our five largest customers accounted for 66%, 67% and 76% of consolidated net sales, respectively. The percentage of IEC's sales to its major customers may fluctuate from period to period. We are dependent upon the continued growth, viability and financial stability of our customers whose industries have experienced rapid technological change, short product life cycles, consolidation, and pricing and margin pressures. Any consolidation among our customers could further reduce the number of customers that generate a significant percentage of our revenues and exposes us to increased risks relating to dependence on a small number of customers. A significant reduction in sales to any of our customers or a customer exerting significant pricing and margin pressures on us, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you that present or future customers will not terminate their manufacturing arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of manufacturing services ordered from us. If they do, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we generate significant account receivables in connection with providing manufacturing services to our customers. If one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the manufacturing services provided by us, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. OUR CUSTOMERS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE. Our customers compete in markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and services. These conditions frequently result in short product life cycles. Our success will depend largely on the success achieved by our customers in developing and marketing their products. If technologies or standards supported by our customers' products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance, our business could be materially adversely affected. WE DEPEND ON THE ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY, WHICH CONTINUALLY PRODUCES TECHNOLOGICALLY ADVANCED PRODUCTS WITH SHORT LIFE CYCLES; OUR INABILITY TO CONTINUALLY MANUFACTURE SUCH PRODUCTS ON A COST-EFFECTIVE BASIS WOULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Factors affecting the electronics industry in general could seriously harm our customers and, as a result, us. These factors include: o the inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards, which result in short product life cycles; o the inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested; o the potential that our customers' products may become obsolete or the failure of our customers' products to gain widespread commercial acceptance; and o recessionary periods in our customers' markets. If any of these factors materialize or if we are unable to offer technologically advanced, cost effective, quick response manufacturing service to customers, demand for our services would decline and our business would suffer. MOST OF OUR CUSTOMERS DO NOT COMMIT TO LONG-TERM PRODUCTION SCHEDULES, WHICH MAKES IT DIFFICULT FOR US TO SCHEDULE PRODUCTION AND ACHIEVE MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY OF OUR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY. The volume and timing of sales to our customers may vary due to: o variation in demand for our customers' products o our customers' attempts to manage their inventory o electronic design changes o changes in our customers' manufacturing strategy o acquisitions of or consolidations among customers o recessionary conditions in customers' industries Due in part to these factors, most of our customers do not commit to firm production schedules for more than one quarter in advance. Our inability to forecast the level of customer orders with certainty makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of manufacturing capacity. In the past, we have been required to increase staffing and other expenses in order to meet the anticipated demand of our customers. Anticipated orders from many of our customers have, in the past, failed to materialize or delivery schedules have been deferred as a result of changes in our customers' business needs, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. On other occasions, our customers have required rapid increases in production, which have placed an excessive burden on our resources. Such customer order fluctuations and deferrals could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. Page 6 of 38 OUR CUSTOMERS MAY CANCEL THEIR ORDERS, CHANGE PRODUCTION QUANTITIES OR DELAY PRODUCTION. Electronics manufacturing service providers must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround for their customers. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers and we continue to experience reduced lead-times in customer orders. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. The success of our customers' products in the market affects our business. Cancellations, reductions or delay by a significant customer or by a group of customers could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, we make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimate of customer requirements. The short-term nature of our customers' commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our gross margins and operating results. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can stress our resources and reduce operating margins. WE COMPETE WITH NUMEROUS PROVIDERS OF ELECTRONIC MANUFACTURING SERVICES, INCLUDING OUR CURRENT OR POTENTIAL CUSTOMERS WHO MAY DECIDE TO MANUFACTURE ALL OF THEIR PRODUCTS INTERNALLY. The electronic manufacturing services business is highly competitive. We compete against numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers with global operations as well as those who operate on a local or regional basis. Many of our competitors have international operations and some have substantially greater manufacturing, financial, research and development, and marketing resources than us. We also face potential competition from the manufacturing operations of our current and potential customers, who are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products internally versus the advantages of outsourcing. INCREASED COMPETITION MAY RESULT IN DECREASED DEMAND OR PRICES FOR OUR SERVICES. We may be operating at a cost disadvantage compared to manufacturers who have greater direct buying power from component suppliers, distributors and raw material suppliers or who have lower cost structures as a result of their geographic location or the services they provide. As a result, competitors may have a competitive advantage. Our manufacturing processes are generally not subject to significant proprietary protection, and companies with greater resources or a greater market presence may enter our market or increase their competition with us. We also expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products or services, to reduce their current products or service sales prices and to introduce new products or services that may offer greater performance and improved pricing. Any of these could cause a decline in sales, loss of market acceptance of our products or services, profit margin compression, or loss of market share. IF WE DO NOT MANAGE OUR BUSINESS EFFECTIVELY, OUR PROFITABILITY COULD DECLINE. Our ability to manage our business effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems; continue to develop the management skills of our managers and supervisors; and continue to train, motivate and manage our employees. Our failure to effectively do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. WE DEPEND ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS FOR COMPONENTS THAT ARE CRITICAL TO OUR MANUFACTURING PROCESSES. A SHORTAGE OF THESE COMPONENTS OR AN INCREASE IN THEIR PRICE COULD INTERRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND REDUCE OUR PROFITS. Substantially all of our net revenue is derived from turnkey manufacturing in which we provide materials procurement. While many of our customer contracts permit quarterly or other periodic adjustments to pricing based on decreases and increases in component prices and other factors, we typically bear the risk of component price increases that occur between any such re-pricing or, if such re-pricing is not permitted, during the balance of the term of the particular customer contract. Accordingly, certain component price increases could adversely affect our gross profit margins. Almost all of the products we manufacture require one or more components that are available from a limited number of suppliers. Some of these components are allocated from time to time in response to supply shortages. In some cases, supply shortages will substantially curtail production of all assemblies using a particular component. In addition, at various times industry wide shortages of electronic components have occurred. Such circumstances have produced insignificant levels of short-term interruption of our operations, but could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. Page 7 of 38 OUR TURNKEY MANUFACTURING SERVICES INVOLVE INVENTORY RISK Most of our services are provided on a turnkey basis, where we purchase some or all of the materials required for designing, product assembling and manufacturing. These services involve greater resource investment and inventory risk management than consignment services, where the customer provides materials. Accordingly, various component price increases and inventory obsolescence could adversely affect our selling price, gross margins and operating results. In our turnkey operations, we must order parts and supplies based on customer forecasts, which may be for a larger quantity of product than is included in the firm orders ultimately received from those customers. Customers' cancellation or reduction of orders can result in expenses to us. While our customer agreements typically include provisions which require customers to reimburse us for excess inventory specifically ordered to meet their forecasts, we may not be able to collect on these obligations. In that case, we could have excess inventory and/or cancellation or return charges from our supplies. PRODUCTS WE MANUFACTURE MAY CONTAIN DESIGN OR MANUFACTURING DEFECTS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN REDUCED DEMAND FOR OUR SERVICES AND LIABILITY CLAIMS AGAINST US. We manufacture products to our customers' specifications, which are highly complex and may, at times, contain design or manufacturing errors or failures. Despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, defects may occur. Defects in the products we manufacture, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or component failure or error, may result in delayed shipments to customers or reduced or cancelled customer orders and may affect our business reputation. In addition, these defects may result in liability claims against us. Even if customers or component suppliers are responsible for the defects, they may be unwilling or unable to assume responsibility for any costs or payments. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN OUR ENGINEERING, TECHNOLOGICAL AND MANUFACTURING PROCESS EXPERTISE. The markets for our manufacturing and engineering services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process development. The continued success of our business will depend upon our ability to: o hire, retain and expand our qualified engineering and technical personnel; o maintain technological leadership; o develop and market manufacturing services that meet changing customer needs; and o successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Although we believe that our operations provide the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, we cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may have to acquire new assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require significant expense or capital investment, which could reduce our operating margins and our operating results. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers' changing technological needs and requirements could have an adverse effect on our business. WE DO NOT HAVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS WITH ANY OF OUR KEY PERSONNEL, THE LOSS OF WHICH COULD HURT OUR OPERATIONS. Our continued success depends largely on the efforts and skills of our key managerial and technical employees. The loss of the services of certain of these key employees or an inability to attract or retain qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not have employment agreements or non-competition agreements with our key employees. COMPLIANCE OR THE FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CURRENT AND FUTURE ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS COULD CAUSE US SIGNIFICANT EXPENSE. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing process. If we fail to comply with any present and future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of production. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Page 8 of 38 THE AGREEMENTS GOVERNING OUR EXISTING DEBT CONTAIN VARIOUS COVENANTS THAT IMPACT UPON THE OPERATION OF OUR BUSINESS. The agreements and instruments governing our existing debt and our secured credit facility contain various restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios including, among others, limitations on the amount available under the revolving line of credit relative to the borrowing base, capital expenditures and minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and restrict our ability to: o incur debt; o incur or maintain liens; o make acquisitions of businesses or entities; o make investments, including loans, guarantees and advances; o engage in mergers, consolidations or certain sales of assets; o engage in transactions with affiliates; and o pay dividends or engage in stock redemptions. Our credit facilities are secured by a general security agreement covering receivables, inventory, equipment, intangibles, investment property and deposit accounts and indirectly by a first mortgage on our Newark plant. Our ability to comply with covenants contained in our existing debt and our secured credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our failure to comply with our debt-related covenants could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness and cross-defaults under our other indebtedness, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are currently in compliance with all of our covenants. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE DUE TO FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL Our common stock is traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including future announcements concerning us or our key customers or competitors, government regulations, litigation, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, fluctuations in quarterly operating results, or general conditions in the EMS industry. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 