ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE FROM PERIOD TO PERIOD. Our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors may include, but are not necessarily limited to: ·adverse changes in general economic conditions ·natural disasters that may impede our operations, the operation of our customers’ business, or availability of manufacturing inputs from our suppliers ·the level and timing of customer orders and the accuracy of customer forecasts ·the capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities and associated fixed costs ·price competition ·market acceptance of our customers' products ·business conditions in our customers' end markets ·our level of experience in manufacturing a particular product ·changes in the mix of sales to our customers ·variations in efficiencies achieved in managing inventories and fixed assets ·fluctuations in cost and availability of materials ·timing of expenditures in anticipation of future orders ·changes in cost and availability of labor and components ·our effectiveness in managing the high reliability manufacturing process required by our customers ·failure or external breach of our information technology systems The EMS industry is affected by the United States and global economies, both of which are influenced by world events. An economic slowdown, particularly in the industries we serve, may result in our customers reducing their forecasts or delaying orders. The demand for our services could weaken, which in turn could substantially influence our sales, capacity utilization, margins and financial results. Recent periods in which EMS sales were adversely affected included fiscal 2002-2003 when there was a decrease in demand for wireless networking equipment, and 2008-2010 when reduced availability of capital to fund existing and emerging technologies forced some firms to contract or to seek strategic alliances. 8 WE DEPEND ON A RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS, THE LOSS OF ONE OR MORE OF WHOM MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. A relatively small number of customers is responsible for a significant portion of our net sales. During fiscal 2012 and 2011, our five largest customers accounted for 48% and 46% of net sales, respectively. During the same two years, our single largest customer accounted for 19% and 16% of net sales, respectively. The percentage of IEC's sales to its major customers may fluctuate from period to period, and our principal customers may also vary from year to year. Significant reduction in sales to any of our major customers, or the loss of a major customer, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on the continued growth and financial stability of our customers, including our major customers. Adverse changes in the end markets they serve can reduce demand from our customers in those markets and/or make customers in these end markets more price sensitive. Further, mergers or restructurings among our customers, or our end customers, could increase concentration or reduce total demand as the combined entities reevaluate their business and consolidate their suppliers. Future developments, particularly in those end markets that account for more significant portions of our revenues, could harm our business and our results of operations. Because of this concentration in our customer base, we have significant amounts of trade accounts receivable from some of our customers. If one or more of our customers experiences financial difficulty and is unable to provide timely payment for the services provided, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, consolidation among our customers could intensify this concentration and adversely affect our business. In the event of consolidation among our customers, depending on which organization controls the supply chain function following the consolidation, we may not be retained as a preferred or approved supplier. In addition, product duplication could result in the termination of a product line that we currently support. While there is potential for increasing our position with the combined customer, our revenues could decrease if we are not retained as a continuing supplier. Even if we are retained as a supplier, we may also face the risk of increased pricing pressure from the combined customer because of its increased market share. WE PARTICIPATE IN THE ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY, WHICH HISTORICALLY PRODUCES TECHNOLOGICALLY ADVANCED PRODUCTS WITH SHORT LIFE CYCLES. Factors affecting the electronics industry in general could seriously harm our customers and, as a result, us. These factors may include, but may not be limited to: ·the inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards, which result in short product life cycles ·the inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested ·increased competition among our customers and their competitors, including downward pressure on pricing ·the potential that our customers' products may become obsolete, or the failure of our customers' products to gain anticipated commercial acceptance ·periods of significantly decreased demand in our customers' markets SINCE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR BUSINESS IS DEFENSE-RELATED, REDUCTIONS OR DELAYS IN UNITED STATES DEFENSE SPENDING MAY MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT IEC'S REVENUES. During fiscal years 2012 and 2011 our sales to customers serving the military and aerospace industries approximated half of our revenues. Because these products and services are ultimately sold to the U.S. government by our customers, these sales are affected by, among other things, the federal budget process, which is driven by numerous factors beyond our control, including geo-political, macroeconomic and political conditions. The contracts between our direct customers and their government customers are subject to political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, the congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes, the government’s ability to terminate contracts for convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. While we believe that our customers’ programs are well aligned with national defense and other priorities, shifts in domestic and international spending and tax policy, changes in security, defense, and intelligence priorities, the affordability of our products and services, general economic conditions and developments, and other factors may affect a decision to fund or the level of funding for existing or proposed programs. An impasse in federal budget decision-making could lead to substantial delays or reductions in federal spending. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the U.S. Government has been unable to reach agreement on budget reduction measures required by the Budget Control Act of 2011. Unless Congress and the Administration take further action, an enforcement action known as sequestration will trigger very substantial automatic spending reductions beginning in January 2013, which will be divided between defense and domestic spending over a nine-year period. As a result, U.S. Government funding for certain of our customers would likely be reduced, delayed or eliminated, which could significantly impact these customers’ demand for our products and services and if so would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. 9 OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION MAY BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY GLOBAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MARKET CONDITIONS. Current global economic and financial market conditions, including the slow recovery from the global economic recession or the onset of another recession, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These conditions may also materially impact our customers and suppliers. Economic and financial market conditions that adversely affect our customers may cause them to terminate or delay existing purchase orders or to reduce the volume of products they purchase from us in the future. We may be owed significant balances from customers that operate in cyclical industries and under leveraged conditions that could impair their ability to pay amounts owed to IEC on a timely basis. Failure to collect a significant portion of those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, adverse changes in credit terms extended to us by our suppliers, such as shortening the required payment period for outstanding accounts payable or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us could significantly affect our liquidity and thereby have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial market conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our operating results could be materially adversely affected. INCREASES IN THE COST OF ENERGY MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Certain of the components used in our manufacturing activities are petroleum-based. In addition, we, along with our suppliers and customers, rely on various energy sources (including oil) in our transportation activities. Over the past several years, energy prices have experienced significant volatility. Increasing energy prices have resulted in an increase in our raw material costs and transportation costs. In addition, the transportation costs of certain of our suppliers and customers have increased, and some of these increased costs may be passed along to us. We may not be able to increase our product prices enough to offset the increased costs, or alternatively, an increase in our product prices may reduce future customer orders and our profitability. START-UP COSTS AND INEFFICIENCIES RELATED TO NEW OR TRANSFERRED PROGRAMS CAN MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND MAY NOT BE RECOVERABLE. Start-up costs, including the management of labor and equipment resources in connection with establishing new programs and new customer relationships, as well as difficulties in estimating required resources and the timing of those resources in advance of production, can adversely affect our operating results. If new programs or new customer relationships are terminated or delayed, our operating results may be materially adversely affected, particularly in the near term, as we may not recoup those start-up costs or quickly replace anticipated new program revenues. MOST OF THE CUSTOMERS IN OUR INDUSTRY DO NOT COMMIT TO LONG-TERM PRODUCTION SCHEDULES, WHICH CAN MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR US TO SCHEDULE PRODUCTION. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for any number of reasons that are beyond our ability to foresee or control. Although we are always seeking new opportunities, we may not be able to replace any deferred, reduced or cancelled orders. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers could adversely affect our operating results and working capital levels. Such cancellations, reductions or delays have occurred and may occur again. The volume and timing of sales to our customers may vary due to: ·variation in demand for our customers' products in their end markets ·actions taken by our customers to manage their inventory ·product design changes by our customers ·changes in our customers' manufacturing strategy Due in part to these factors, most of our customers do not commit to firm, long-term production schedules. Therefore, we make significant judgments based on our estimates of customer requirements, including: ·deciding on the levels of business that we will seek ·production schedules 10 ·component procurement commitments ·equipment requirements ·personnel needs ·other resource requirements The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate and forecast the future requirements of those customers. Since many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can adversely affect our revenue and operating results. INCREASED COMPETITION MAY RESULT IN DECREASED DEMAND OR REDUCED PRICES FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. The EMS industry is highly fragmented and characterized by intense competition. We may be operating at a cost disadvantage compared to larger EMS providers who have greater direct buying power from component suppliers, distributors and raw material suppliers or who have lower cost structures as a result of their geographic location. As a result, other EMS providers may have a competitive advantage. Our manufacturing processes are generally not subject to significant proprietary protection, and companies with greater resources or a greater market presence may enter our market or increase their competition with us. We also expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products or services, to reduce the prices of their products or services and to introduce new products or services that may offer greater performance and improved pricing. Any of these factors may cause a decline in our sales, loss of market acceptance for our products or services, profit margin compression, or loss of market share. DIFFICULTIES IN INTEGRATING ACQUIRED OPERATIONS MAY MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OPERATING RESULTS. We completed acquisitions of SCB in fiscal 2011 and Albuquerque and Celmet in fiscal 2010, and we may continue to acquire additional businesses in the future. Acquisitions involve risks that may include, but not be limited to: ·failure to integrate operations ·loss of key personnel ·failure to integrate information systems ·failure to establish management, financial and operational controls such as adequate accounts receivable and inventory control processes ·failure to retain the customer base of acquired businesses ·diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns ·exposure to unanticipated liabilities of acquired companies ·additional costs and start-up inefficiencies These and other factors could affect our ability to achieve expected levels of profitability or to realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition and could have a material adverse affect our operating results. WE DEPEND ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS FOR COMPONENTS THAT ARE CRITICAL TO OUR MANUFACTURING PROCESSES. A SHORTAGE OF THESE COMPONENTS OR AN INCREASE IN THEIR PRICE COULD INTERRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Much of our net revenue is derived from turn-key manufacturing for which we provide the materials specified by our customers. Some of our customer agreements permit periodic adjustments to pricing based on increases or decreases in component prices and other factors. However, we typically bear the risk of component price increases that occur between any such re-pricing dates or, if such re-pricing is not permitted during the balance of the term of a particular customer agreement. As a result, some component price increases may materially adversely affect our operating results, if we cannot increase prices enough to offset increased costs or if increased prices lead to cancelled orders. 11 Many of the products we manufacture require one or more components that are available from a limited number of suppliers. In response to supply shortages, some of these components are from time to time subject to allocation limits. In some cases, supply shortages or delayed deliveries could substantially curtail production of those assemblies requiring a limited-supply component, which could contribute to an increase in our inventory levels, and could delay shipments to customers and the associated revenue of all products using that component. Component shortages have been prevalent in our industry, and such shortages may recur. An increase in economic activity could result in shortages if manufacturers of components do not adequately anticipate increased order volume or if they have excessively reduced their production capabilities. World events, armed conflict, governmental regulation, natural disaster, and epidemics could also affect our supply chain, leading to an inability to obtain sufficient components on a timely basis. In addition, due to the specialized nature of some components and our customers’ product specifications, we may be required to use sole-source suppliers for certain components. Such suppliers may encounter financial or operational difficulties that could cause delays in or the curtailment of component deliveries. OUR TURN-KEY MANUFACTURING SERVICES INVOLVE INVENTORY RISK. Our turn-key manufacturing services described above involve a greater investment in inventory and a corresponding increase in risk as compared to consignment services, for which the customer provides all materials. For example, in our turn-key operations, we must frequently order parts and supplies in minimum lot sizes that may be larger than the quantity of product ultimately needed for our customers. Customers' cancellation or reduction of orders could result in additional expense to us. If we are not reimbursed for excess inventory ordered to meet customer forecasts, we may accumulate excess inventory and/or incur return charges imposed by suppliers. In addition, component price increases and inventory obsolescence associated with turn-key orders could adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, we provide inventory management programs for some of our customers under which we are required to hold and manage finished goods inventories. Such inventory management programs may lead to higher finished goods inventory levels, reduced inventory turns and increased financial exposure. In cases where customers have contractual obligations to purchase managed inventories from us, we remain subject to the risk of enforcing the obligation. PRODUCTS WE MANUFACTURE MAY CONTAIN DEFECTS IN WORKMANSHIP, WHICH COULD RESULT IN REDUCED DEMAND FOR OUR SERVICES AND PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS AGAINST US. We manufacture highly complex products to our customers' specifications, often within tight tolerance ranges, and such products may contain design or manufacturing errors or defects. Despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, failures may occur. Defects in the products we manufacture, whether caused by customer design, workmanship, component failure or other error, may result in delayed shipments to customers or reduced or cancelled customer orders, adversely affecting our reputation and may result in product liability claims against us. Even if customers or component suppliers are responsible for the defects, they may be unwilling or unable to assume responsibility for costs associated with product failure. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY NEW REGULATIONS RELATING TO THE SOURCING OF CERTAIN RAW MATERIALS. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) contains provisions to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. As a result, the SEC recently established new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use “conflict” minerals mined from those countries in their products. When these new requirements are implemented, they could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our manufacturing processes. As a result, we may not be able to obtain products at competitive prices and there may be additional costs associated with complying with the SEC’s new due diligence procedures and disclosure requirements. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict-free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier. DAMAGE TO OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES DUE TO FIRE, NATURAL DISASTER, OR OTHER EVENTS COULD HARM OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. At September 30, 2012, we have five manufacturing and assembly facilities. Upon expiration of the lease in December 2012, we plan to consolidate our Victor, New York location into our Newark, New York facility. The destruction or closure of any of our facilities for a significant period of time as a result of fire, explosion, blizzard, act of war or terrorism, flood, tornado, earthquake, lightning, other natural disasters, required maintenance or other events could harm us financially, increasing our costs of doing business and limiting our ability to deliver our manufacturing services on a timely basis. Our insurance coverage with respect to damages to our facilities or our customers’ products caused by natural disasters is limited and is subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Such coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. 12 If one or more of our facilities is closed on a temporary or permanent basis as a result of a natural disaster, required maintenance or other event, our operations could be significantly disrupted. Such events could delay or prevent product manufacturing and shipment for the time required to transfer production to another facility or to repair, rebuild and/or replace the affected manufacturing facility. This time period could be lengthy and could result in significant expenses for repair and related costs. While we have established disaster recovery plans, such plans may not be sufficient to allow our operations to continue in the event of every natural or man-made disaster, pandemic, required repair or other extraordinary event. Any extended inability to continue our operations at unaffected facilities following such an event would reduce our revenue and potentially damage our reputation as a reliable supplier. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN SATISFACTORY CAPACITY UTILIZATION RATES, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WOULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Given the high fixed costs of our operations, decreases in capacity utilization rates can have a significant effect on our business. Accordingly, our ability to maintain or enhance gross margins continues to depend, in part, on maintaining satisfactory capacity utilization rates. In turn, our ability to maintain satisfactory capacity utilization depends on the demand for our products, the volume of orders we receive, and our ability to offer products that meet our customers’ requirements at competitive prices. If current or future production capacity fails to match current or future customer demands, our facilities would be underutilized, our sales may not fully cover our fixed overhead expenses, and we would be less likely to achieve anticipated gross margins. If forecasts and assumptions used to support the realizability of our long-lived assets change in the future, we may incur significant impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we generally schedule our production facilities at less than full capacity to retain our ability to respond to unexpected additional quick-turn orders. However, if these orders are not received, we may forego some production and could experience continued excess capacity. If we conclude that we have significant, long-term excess capacity, we may decide to permanently close one or more of our facilities, and lay off some of our employees. Closures or lay-offs could result in our recording restructuring charges such as severance and other exit costs, and asset impairments. IF OUR CUSTOMERS CHOOSE TO PROVIDE MANUFACTURING SERVICES IN-HOUSE, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD SUFFER. Our business has benefited from OEMs deciding to outsource their EMS needs to us. Our future revenue growth depends, in part, on new outsourcing opportunities from OEMs. Current and prospective customers continuously evaluate our performance against other providers. They also evaluate the potential benefits of manufacturing their products themselves. To the extent that outsourcing opportunities are not available either due to OEM decisions to produce these products themselves or to use other providers, our financial results and prospects could be materially adversely affected. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN THE ENGINEERING, TECHNOLOGICAL AND MANUFACTURING CAPABILITIES REQUIRED BY OUR CUSTOMERS IN THE FUTURE. The markets for our manufacturing and engineering services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process development. The continued success of our business will depend upon our ability to: ·hire and retain qualified engineering and technical personnel ·maintain and enhance our technological leadership ·develop and market manufacturing services that meet changing customer needs Although we believe that our operations provide the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, there is no certainty that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology, industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or uncompetitive; or we may have to acquire new assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require significant expense or capital investment that could adversely affect our operating results, as could our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers' changing technological requirements. FAILURE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL AND OTHER SKILLED EMPLOYEES COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our continued success depends to a large extent on our ability to recruit, train, and retain skilled employees, particularly executive management and technical employees. The competition for these individuals is significant; hence the loss of the services of certain of these key employees or an inability to attract or retain qualified employees could negatively impact us. We have employment agreements with W. Barry Gilbert, our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey T. Schlarbaum, our President, Donald S. Doody, our Executive Vice President and Craig Pfefferman, President and General Manager of SCB. 13 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CURRENT AND FUTURE GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS COULD IMPAIR OUR OPERATIONS OR CAUSE US TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT EXPENSE. We are subject to a variety of United States government regulations that control the export and import of defense-related articles and services, as well as federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to conflict metals, employee occupational health and safety, and environmental and waste management regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials used in our manufacturing process. To date, the cost to the Company of such compliance has not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, violations may occur in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Further, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of environmental legislation or regulatory requirements that could be imposed in the future, or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of regulatory agencies, could require substantial expenditures by the Company and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with any present or future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of production which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. While we are not currently aware of any violations, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur other significant compliance-related expenses. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING, THE REPUTATIONAL EFFECTS COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Under the provisions of Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), as amended by the Dodd Frank Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to perform an evaluation of Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICFR) and to report on their evaluations in Form 10-K. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting a resulting material restatement could occur or a resulting loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. If lenders lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations. RECENT AND FUTURE CHANGES IN SECURITIES LAWS AND REGULATIONS MAY INCREASE COSTS. As a U.S. public company registered with the SEC under the Exchange Act, we incur significant legal, financial, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and listing requirements subsequently adopted by the NYSE MKT in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, have required changes in the corporate governance practices, internal control and disclosure control policies and procedures, and audit committee practices of most public companies. More recently, the Dodd-Frank Act has required and will require changes to our corporate governance, compliance practices and SEC reporting. We anticipate that these requirements may make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. These developments also may result in the Company having difficulty attracting and retaining qualified individuals to serve on the board of directors or as executive officers, and could increase the difficulty and expense involved in retaining third-party advisers, such as compensation consultants. We expect to incur increased costs associated with the compliance and implementation of procedures under these laws, regulations and listing requirements, including additional legal, financial and accounting costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. THE AGREEMENTS GOVERNING OUR DEBT CONTAIN VARIOUS COVENANTS THAT IMPACT THE OPERATION OF OUR BUSINESS. The agreements and instruments governing our secured bank credit facility and other existing debt contain various restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to comply with certain financial tests, including, among others, limitations on revolving loan borrowings, limits on capital expenditures, and minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent payments and stock compensation expense (“EBITDARS”). The agreements and instruments restrict our ability to: ·incur debt ·incur or maintain liens ·make acquisitions of businesses or entities ·make investments, loans or advances ·enter into guarantee agreements ·engage in mergers, consolidations or certain sales of assets 14 ·engage in transactions with affiliates ·pay dividends or engage in stock redemptions or repurchases Our bank credit facilities are secured by a general security agreement covering the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, a pledge of the Company’s equity interest in its subsidiaries, a negative pledge on the Company’s real property, and a guarantee by the Company’s subsidiaries, all of which restrict use of these assets to support other financial instruments. Our ability to comply with covenants contained in our secured bank credit facilities and other existing debt may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. While we are currently in compliance with all of our debt covenants, our failure to comply in the future could result in an acceleration of our primary indebtedness and cross-defaults under subordinate indebtedness, causing a material adverse effect on our financial condition. A FAILURE OF OUR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. A failure or prolonged interruption in our information technology systems that compromises our ability to meet our customers' needs, or impairs our ability to record, process and report accurate information could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. A BREACH OF OUR CYBERSECURITY SYSTEMS COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. A breach that compromises proprietary customer data, our ability to meet our customers' needs, or impairs our ability to record, process and report accurate information to the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE DUE TO FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE MKT. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including future announcements concerning us or our key customers or competitors, governmental regulations, litigation, fluctuations in quarterly operating results, or general conditions in the EMS industry and economy in general. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable to smaller reporting companies. 