ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE DUE TO A NUMBER OF FACTORS, MANY OF WHICH ARE BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our annual and quarterly results may vary significantly depending on various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: - adverse changes in general economic conditions - the level and timing of customer orders and the accuracy of their forecasts - the level of capacity utilization of our manufacturing facility and associated fixed costs - price competition - market acceptance of our customers products - business conditions in our customers’ end markets - our level of experience in manufacturing a particular product - change in the sales mix of our customers - the efficiencies achieved in managing inventories and fixed assets - fluctuations in materials costs and availability of materials - the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future orders - changes in cost and availability of labor and components - our effectiveness in managing manufacturing process. The EMS industry is impacted by the state of the U.S. and global economies, which are both impacted by world events. An economic slowdown, in particular in the industries served by us, may result in our customers reducing their forecasts. The demand for our services could weaken, which in turn could substantially influence our sales, capacity utilization, margins and financial results. Historically, we have seen periods, such as in fiscal 2003 and 2002, when EMS industry sales were adversely affected by a slowdown in wireless/networking and wireless infrastructure sectors as a result of reduced end-market demand and reduced availability of capital to fund existing and emerging technologies. WE DEPEND ON A RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS, AND IF WE LOSE ANY OF THESE CUSTOMERS OUR SALES AND OPERATING RESULTS COULD DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY. A small number of customers are responsible for a significant portion of our net sales. During fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, our five largest customers accounted for 55%, 62%, and 61% of net sales, respectively. During fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, our single largest customer in each year accounted for 15%, 21%, and 26% of net sales, respectively. The percentage of IEC's sales to its major customers may fluctuate from period to period. Our principal customers have varied from period to period, and our principal customers may not continue to purchase services from us at the current levels, or at all. WE DEPEND ON THE ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY, WHICH CONTINUALLY PRODUCES TECHNOLOGICALLY ADVANCED PRODUCTS WITH SHORT LIFE CYCLES. Factors affecting the electronics industry in general could seriously harm our customers and, as a result, us. These factors include: - the inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards, which result in short product life cycles; - the inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested; - the potential that our customers' products may become obsolete or the failure of our customers' products to gain widespread commercial acceptance; and - recessionary periods in our customers' markets. 6 OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY GLOBAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MARKETS CONDITIONS. Current global economic and financial markets conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the potential for a significant and prolonged global economic recession, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These conditions may also materially impact our customers and suppliers. Economic and financial market conditions that adversely affect our customers may cause them to terminate existing purchase orders or to reduce the volume of products they purchase from us in the future. We may have significant balances owing from customers that operate in cyclical industries and under leveraged conditions that may impair the collectability of those receivables. Failure to collect a significant portion of those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic and financial credit terms our suppliers extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for outstanding accounts receivable or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes of this type could significantly affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial markets conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. FALILURE TO MANAGE GROWTH AND CONTRACTION, IF ANY, MAY SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS In late 2006 and early 2007 we expanded our operations and added many new employees. These actions resulted in additional costs and start-up inefficiencies. If we are unable to effectively manage the currently anticipated growth or if the anticipated net sales are not realized, our operating results could be adversely affected. ENERGY PRICE INCREASES MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Certain of the components used in our manufacturing activities are petroleum-based. In addition, we, along with our suppliers and customers, rely on various energy sources (including oil) in our transportation activities. Over the past several years, energy prices have sharply increased and have experienced significant volatility. These increased energy prices have resulted in an increase to our raw material costs and transportation costs. In addition, the transportation costs of certain of our suppliers and customers have increased, and some of these increased costs may be passed along to us. We may not be able to increase our product prices enough to offset these increased costs. In addition, any increase in our product prices may reduce our future customer orders and profitability. START-UP COSTS AND INEFFICIENCIES RELATED TO NEW OR TRANSFERRED PROGRAMS CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND MAY NOT BE RECOVERABLE. Start-up costs, the management of labor and equipment resources in connection with establishing new programs and new customer relationships, and the need to estimate required resources, and the timing of those resources in advance of production, can adversely affect our gross margins and operating margins. If new programs or new customer relationships are terminated or delayed, our operating results may be harmed, particularly in the near term. We may not be able to recoup our start-up costs or quickly replace anticipated new program revenues. MOST OF THE CUSTOMERS IN OUR INDUSTRY DO NOT COMMIT TO LONG-TERM PRODUCTION SCHEDULES, WHICH CAN MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR US TO SCHEDULE PRODUCTION. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons that are beyond our control. Cancellations, reductions or delay by a significant customer or by a group of customers could negatively impact our operating results. Such cancellations, reductions or delays have occurred and may continue to occur. The volume and timing of sales to our customers may vary due to: § variation in demand for our customers' products in their end markets § our customers' attempts to manage their inventory § electronic design changes § changes in our customers' manufacturing strategy § recessionary conditions in customers' industries Due in part to these factors, most of our customers do not commit to firm production schedules. We make significant decisions based on our estimates of customers’ requirements, including deciding on the levels of business that we will seek, production schedules, component procurement commitments, equipment requirements, personnel needs and other resource requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate and forecast the future requirements of those customers. Since many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can impact our revenue and harm our gross margins and operating results. 7 INCREASED COMPETITION MAY RESULT IN DECREASED DEMAND OR REDUCED PRICES FOR OUR SERVICES. The EMS industry is highly fragmented and is characterized by intense competition. We may be operating at a cost disadvantage compared to other EMS providers who have greater direct buying power from component suppliers, distributors and raw material suppliers or who have lower cost structures as a result of their geographic location. As a result, competitors may have a competitive advantage. Our manufacturing processes are generally not subject to significant proprietary protection, and companies with greater resources or a greater market presence may enter our market or increase their competition with us. We also expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products or services, to reduce their current products or service sales prices and to introduce new products or services that may offer greater performance and improved pricing. Any of these could cause a decline in sales, loss of market acceptance of our products or services, profit margin compression, or loss of market share. THE INTEGRATION OF ACQUIRED OPERATIONS MAY POSE DIFFICULTIES FOR US. In May 2008, we completed our acquisition of Wire and Cable. We may continue to acquire additional businesses in the future. This acquisition and future acquisitions involve risks, including: ▪ integration and management of the operations; ▪ retention of key personnel; ▪ integration of information systems, internal procedures, accounts receivable and management, financial and operational controls; ▪ retention of customer base of acquired businesses; ▪ diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns; and ▪ exposure to unanticipated liabilities of acquired companies. These and other factors could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition and could adversely affect our business and operating results. IF WE DO NOT MANAGE OUR BUSINESS EFFECTIVELY, OUR PROFITABILITY COULD DECLINE. Our ability to manage our business effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems; continue to develop the management skills of our managers and supervisors; and continue to train, motivate and manage our employees. Our failure to effectively do so could harm our business. WE DEPEND ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS FOR COMPONENTS THAT ARE CRITICAL TO OUR MANUFACTURING PROCESSES. A SHORTAGE OF THESE COMPONENTS OR AN INCREASE IN THEIR PRICE COULD INTERRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND REDUCE OUR PROFITS. Much of our net revenue is derived from turnkey manufacturing in which we provide materials procurement. While some of our customer agreements permit periodic adjustments to pricing based on decreases and increases in component prices and other factors, we typically bear the risk of component price increases that occur between any such re-pricing or, if such re-pricing is not permitted, during the balance of the term of the particular customer contract. Accordingly, certain component price increases could adversely affect our gross profit margins. Almost all of the products we manufacture require one or more components that are available from a limited number of suppliers. Some of these components are allocated from time to time in response to supply shortages. In some cases, supply shortages could substantially curtail production of those assemblies using a particular component. At times, component shortages have been prevalent in our industry, and such shortages may be expected to recur from time to time. In some cases, supply shortages and delays in deliveries of particular components have resulted in curtailed or delayed production of assemblies, which contributed to an increase in our inventory levels. An increase in economic activity could result in shortages, if manufacturers of components do not adequately anticipate the increased orders and/or have previously excessively cut back their production capabilities in view of reduced activity in recent years. World events, armed conflict and epidemics, could also affect our supply chain. An inability to obtain sufficient components on a timely basis could harm relationships with our customers. In addition, due to the specialized nature of some components and the needs of our customers’ products, we may be required to use suppliers which are the sole provider of certain components. Such suppliers may encounter financial difficulties or may not have adequate financial resources, which could preclude them from delivering components on time or at all. 8 OUR TURNKEY MANUFACTURING SERVICES INVOLVE INVENTORY RISK Most of our services are provided on a turnkey basis, where we purchase some or all of the materials required for product assembling and manufacturing. These services involve greater resource investment and inventory risk management than consignment services, where the customer provides materials. Accordingly, various component price increases and inventory obsolescence could adversely affect our selling price, gross margins and operating results. In our turnkey operations, we must order parts and supplies based on customer forecasts, which may be for a larger quantity of product than is included in the firm orders ultimately received from those customers. Customers' cancellation or reduction of orders can result in additional expense to us. While most of our customer agreements typically include provisions which require customers to reimburse us for excess inventory specifically ordered to meet their forecasts, we actually may not be reimbursed on these obligations. In that case, we could have excess inventory and/or cancellation or return charges from our suppliers. In addition, we are starting to provide managed inventory programs for some of our customers under which we hold and manage finished goods inventories. This managed inventory program may result in higher finished goods inventory levels, further reduce our inventory turns and increase our financial exposure with such customers. Even though they will generally have contractual obligations to purchase such inventories from us, we may remain subject to the risk of enforcing those obligations. PRODUCTS WE MANUFACTURE MAY CONTAIN MANUFACTURING DEFECTS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN REDUCED DEMAND FOR OUR SERVICES AND LIABILITY CLAIMS AGAINST US. We manufacture products to our customers' specifications, which are highly complex and may, at times, contain design or manufacturing errors or failures. Despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, defects may occur. Defects in the products we manufacture, whether caused by a customer design, manufacturing or component failure or error, may result in delayed shipments to customers or reduced or cancelled customer orders and may affect our business reputation. In addition, these defects may result in liability claims against us. Even if customers or component suppliers are responsible for the defects, they may be unwilling or unable to assume responsibility for any costs or payments. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN OUR ENGINEERING, TECHNOLOGICAL AND MANUFACTURING PROCESS EXPERTISE. The markets for our manufacturing and engineering services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process development. The continued success of our business will depend upon our ability to: ▪ hire and retain our qualified engineering and technical personnel; ▪ maintain and enhance our technological leadership; and ▪ develop and market manufacturing services that meet changing customer needs. Although we believe that our operations provide the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, we cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may have to acquire new assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require significant expense or capital investment, which could reduce our operating margins and our operating results. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers' changing technological needs and requirements could have an adverse effect on our business. FAILURE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL AND SKILLED EMPLOYEES COULD HURT OUR OPERATIONS. Our continued success depends to a large extent on our ability to recruit, train, and retain skilled employees, particularly executive management and technical employees. The competition for these individuals is significant; hence the loss of the services of certain of these key employees or an inability to attract or retain qualified employees could negatively impact us. While we do have an employment agreement with W. Barry Gilbert, our Chief Executive Officer, we do not have employment agreements or non-competition agreements with any of our other key employees. COMPLIANCE OR THE FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CURRENT AND FUTURE ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS COULD CAUSE US SIGNIFICANT EXPENSE. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing process. If we fail to comply with any present and future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of production. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. While we are not currently aware of any violations, we may have to spend funds to comply with present and future regulations or be required to perform site remediation. 9 IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING, INVESTORS COULD LOSE CONFIDENCE IN THE RELIABILITY OF OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN A REDUCTION IN THE VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K; that report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing our comprehensive efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, this could lead to a failure to meet reporting obligations to the SEC, which in turn could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. THE AGREEMENTS GOVERNING OUR DEBT CONTAIN VARIOUS COVENANTS THAT IMPACT THE OPERATION OF OUR BUSINESS. The agreements and instruments governing our existing debt and our secured credit facility contain various restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios including, among others, limitations on the amount available under the revolving line of credit relative to the borrowing base, capital expenditures and minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, rent and lease payments and stock option expense(EBITDARS) and restrict our ability to: ▪ incur debt; ▪ incur or maintain liens; ▪ make acquisitions of businesses or entities; ▪ make investments, including loans, guarantees and advances; ▪ engage in mergers, consolidations or certain sales of assets; ▪ engage in transactions with affiliates; and ▪ pay dividends or engage in stock redemptions or repurchases. Our credit facilities are secured by a general security agreement in the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, a pledge of the Company’s equity interest in its subsidiary, a negative pledge on the Company’s real property, and a guarantee by the Company’s subsidiary. Our ability to comply with covenants contained in our existing debt and secured credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our failure to comply with our debt-related covenants could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness and cross-defaults under our other indebtedness, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are currently in compliance with all of our covenants. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE DUE TO FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our Common Stock is traded on the NYSE AMEX. The market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including future announcements concerning us or our key customers or competitors, government regulations, litigation, fluctuations in quarterly operating results, or general conditions in the EMS industry. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 