Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Food Service Industry. Food service businesses may be affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic and political conditions, demographic trends, and the impact on consumer eating habits of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health. The performance of individual restaurants may be adversely affected by factors such as traffic patterns, demographics and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. Multi-unit food service businesses such as ours can also be materially and adversely affected by widespread negative publicity of any type, but particularly regarding food quality, illness, obesity, injury or other health concerns with respect to certain foods. All restaurants are operated in accordance with uniform operating standards and specifications relating to the quality and preparation of menu items, maintenance, repair and cleanliness of premises. Nevertheless, the risk of food-borne illness cannot be completely eliminated. Any outbreak of such illness attributed to our restaurants or within the food service industry or any widespread negative publicity regarding our brands or the restaurant industry in general could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 11 Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh produce and groceries subjects food service businesses, such as ours, to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply, caused by adverse weather or other conditions, could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. In addition, unfavorable trends or developments concerning factors such as inflation, increased cost of food, labor, construction, fuel, utilities, technology, insurance and employee benefits (including increases in hourly wage, and workers’ compensation and other insurance premiums), increases in the number and locations of competing restaurants, regional weather conditions and the availability of experienced management and hourly employees, may also adversely affect the food service industry in general. Changes in economic conditions affecting our customers could reduce traffic in some or all of our restaurants or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our continued success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing conditions. Risks Associated with the Company’s Development Plan. The Company relies on franchisees to develop IHOP restaurants. Development involves substantial risks, including the risk of (a) the availability of suitable locations and terms of the sites designated for development, (b) the ability of franchise developers to fulfill their commitments to build new IHOP restaurants in the numbers and time frames covered by their development agreements, (c) the availability of financing to franchisees at acceptable rates and terms, (d) delays in completion of construction, (e) developed properties not achieving desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened, (f) competition for suitable development sites, (g) changes in governmental rules, regulations, and interpretations (including interpretations of the requirements of the American with Disabilities Act (ADA), and (h) general economic and business conditions. Although we intend to manage our future restaurant development to reduce such risks, we cannot be sure that present or future development will perform in accordance with our expectations. We cannot be sure that the development and construction of the facilities will be completed, or that any such development will be completed in a timely manner. Our inability to expand in accordance with our plans or manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Entering New Domestic Markets. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully expand or acquire critical market presence for our brands in new geographic markets, as we may encounter well-established competitors with substantially greater financial resources. Our franchisees may be unable to find attractive locations, acquire name recognition, successfully market our products and attract new customers. Competitive circumstances and consumer characteristics in new market segments and new geographic markets may differ substantially from those in the market segments and geographic markets in which we have substantial experience. We cannot assure that our franchisees will be able to profitably operate new franchised restaurants in new geographic markets. Management decisions to curtail or cease investment in certain locations or markets may result in impairment charges. Risks Related to Entering New International Markets. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in our international markets or in achieving expected growth. Certain inherent risks are associated with international markets such as foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, interpretation and application of laws and regulations, restrictive actions of foreign or United States governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership, import or other business licensing requirements, the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights, and lower levels of consumer spending on a per capita basis than in the United States. Risks Related to Competition. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location, personnel and the type and quality of food. Each of our restaurants competes directly and indirectly with a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as with locally-owned 12 quick service restaurants, fast-casual restaurants, sandwich shops and similar types of businesses. The trend toward convergence in grocery, deli, and restaurant services may increase the number of our competitors. Such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our competitors have introduced a variety of new products and engaged in substantial price discounting in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. We plan to continue our product promotion schedule supported by national and local advertising, as well as strengthen our core menu. However, there can be no assurance of the success of our new products, initiatives or our overall strategies or that competitive product offerings, pricing and promotions will not have an adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Advertising. We plan to continue our advertising campaign “Come hungry. Leave happy.” which we believe resonates positively with our customers, as well as continue to shift advertising expenditures from local market spending to coordinated national spending with the support of our franchisees. Should our competitors increase spending on advertising and promotion, should the cost of television or radio advertising increase, or our advertising funds decrease for any reason, including implementation of reduced spending strategies, or should our advertising and promotion be less effective than that of our competitors, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Income Taxes. Our income tax provision is based on estimates of federal and state income tax liabilities and includes effective state and local income tax rates, allowable tax credits for items such as FICA taxes paid on reported tip income and estimates related to depreciation expenses allowable for tax purposes. Thus, our income tax provision may vary quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year based on these estimates. We usually file our income tax returns a number of months after our fiscal year-end. All tax returns are subject to audit by federal and state governments, usually years after the returns are filed, and could be subject to differing interpretation of the tax laws. The ultimate outcome of these audits could have an adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our tax contingency reserves result from estimates of potential liabilities resulting from differences between actual and audited results. Changes in the tax contingency reserve result from resolution of audits of prior year filings, the expiration of the statute of limitations, changes in tax laws and current year estimates for asserted and unasserted items. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law, both legislated and concluded through the various jurisdictions’ tax court systems. Significant changes in our estimates could adversely affect our reported results. Risks Related to Franchise Operations. The opening and success of franchised restaurants depends on various factors, including the demand for our franchises and the selection of appropriate franchisee candidates, the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, permitting and regulatory compliance, the ability to meet construction schedules, the availability of financing and other capabilities of our franchisees and developers. We cannot be sure that developers planning the opening of franchised restaurants will have the business abilities or sufficient access to financial resources necessary to open the restaurants required by their agreements. We cannot be sure that franchisees will successfully participate in our strategic initiatives or operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our concept and standards. In addition, certain federal and state laws govern our relationships with our franchisees. See “Risks Related to Government Regulations” below. Risks Related to Government Regulations. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. We and our franchisees are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, sanitation and safety standards, and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and citizenship requirements. The ability to obtain or maintain such licenses or publicity 13 resulting from actual or alleged violations of such laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also subject to federal regulation and certain state laws which govern the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements, including limitations on non-competition provisions and on provisions concerning the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some states require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in that state. The failure to obtain or retain licenses or approvals to sell franchises could adversely affect us and our franchisees. Changes in, and the cost of compliance with, government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Risks Related to Trademarks and Service Marks. We are dependent on continued rights to use, exploit and protect our trademarks and service marks, many of which have been in use for many years. In 2006, we became aware of certain technical issues relating to registrations and applications filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office prior to July 5, 1999 (the “Pre 1999 Registrations”), which include registrations for various “IHOP” and “International House of Pancakes” marks. These issues affected the continued validity of the Pre-1999 Registrations and made inaccurate certain statements in the Uniform Franchise Offering Circular (“UFOC”) we used during certain periods after July 5, 1999. The invalidity of the Pre-1999 Registrations affects our ability to take advantage of certain trademark enforcement features available under the Lanham Act with respect to the trademarks covered by the Pre-1999 Registrations. We have taken and will continue to take corrective actions including canceling the Pre-1999 Registrations and obtaining new registrations for any affected trademarks that are still in use. We anticipate these steps will be fully effective within the next 18-24 months. Our intellectual property rights include the common law rights in the marks that are subject to the Pre-1999 Registrations, as well as post-July 5, 1999 registrations for logos which contain “IHOP” and “International House of Pancakes” and rights in other more recent registered marks, such as “Come Hungry. Leave Happy.” We may rely upon the extensive common law rights in the trademarks subject to Pre-1999 Registrations derived from established usage of the “IHOP” and “International House of Pancakes” marks and IHOP’s presence in 49 states to address trademark infringement under federal and state law. Federal registration is not required to bring a trademark infringement claim under Section 43(a) of the Lanham Act or to bring unfair competition claims under state law. We do not need to rely on its U.S. federal registrations as bases to obtain or maintain foreign trademark registrations. Accordingly, we should continue to have the ability to enforce our existing rights in the affected marks. Under the Lanham Act, there are a number of benefits afforded to marks registered on the Principal Register of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These benefits include, among other things: (1) constructive notice that the registrant of the mark has the right to use the mark throughout the United States; (2) prima facie evidence that the mark is valid; (3) prima facie evidence that the mark has been in continuous use since filing of the application; (4) the fact that the mark cannot be attacked on the basis of prior use or descriptiveness, after five years of continuous use; and (5) the existence of certain rights under international conventions that assist in foreign registration of the mark. The invalidity of the Pre-1999 Registrations means that we will not be able to rely on these provisions of the Lanham Act until the new registrations are effective. In addition, we have taken the corrective actions we believe necessary with respect to any misstatements in the UFOCs derived from the invalid trademark registrations, including the filing of amendments to those UFOCs in those States where amended filings are required. We believe that any issues regarding the invalidity of the federal registrations of the affected marks and the related UFOC misstatements have not had and will not have any material impact on the IHOP Franchisees or our business. 14 We are not aware of any infringing uses that could materially affect our business, or any prior claim to any rights in these marks that would prevent us from using or licensing the use of those marks in any area of the United States. In addition, we believe that the inadvertent misstatements in the UFOCs derived from the invalid trademark registrations have had no adverse consequences to us or to our Franchisees and that adverse regulatory action based on the inadvertent misstatements in the UFOCs is not reasonably likely to occur. Risks Related to the Failure of Internal Controls. The Company maintains a documented system of internal controls which is reviewed and monitored by the Audit Committee and tested by the Company’s full time Internal Audit Department to meet the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 standards. The Internal Audit Department reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The Company believes it has a well-designed system to maintain adequate internal controls on the business. However, there can be no assurance that there will not be any control deficiencies in the future. Should we become aware of any significant control deficiencies, the Audit Committee will require prompt remediation. We have devoted significant resources to document, test, monitor and improve our internal controls and will continue to do so; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our controls are adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing fraud. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 15 