Item 1A. Risk Factors.GeneralThis Item 1A includes forward-looking statements. You should refer to our discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements included in Item 7.The occurrence of any of the events discussed in the following risk factors may adversely affect, possibly in a material manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations, which may adversely affect the value of our shares of common stock or preferred stock.Our business is affected by general economic conditions that are largely out of our control. Our business is dependent to a significant extent on national, regional and local economic conditions, and, to a lesser extent, on global economic conditions, particularly those conditions affecting the demographics of the guests that frequently patronize Applebee's or IHOP restaurants. If our customers' disposable income available for discretionary spending is reduced (because of circumstances such as job losses, credit constraints and higher housing, taxes, energy, interest or other costs) or if the perceived wealth of customers decreases (because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, increased tax rates or other economic disruptions), our business could experience lower sales and customer traffic as potential customers choose lower-cost alternatives (such as quick-service restaurants or fast casual dining) or choose alternatives to dining out. Any resulting decreases in customer traffic or average value per transaction will negatively impact the financial performance of Applebee's or IHOP company-operated restaurants, as reduced gross sales result in downward pressure on margins and profitability. These factors could also reduce gross sales at franchise restaurants, resulting in lower royalty payments from franchisees, and could reduce the profitability of franchise restaurants, potentially impacting the ability of franchisees to make royalty payments when they are due and develop new restaurants as called for in their respective development agreements.Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt. We have a significant amount of indebtedness which could have important consequences to our financial health. For example, it could:•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt;•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;14Table of Contents•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged;•limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; and•result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our debt or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt documents, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders to foreclose on our assets securing such debt.In addition, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control. There is no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, including with respect to our other indebtedness. As we are required to satisfy amortization requirements under our senior secured credit facility or as other debt matures, we may also need to raise funds to refinance all or a portion of our debt when it becomes due. Further, there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on attractive terms, commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future operating performance and our ability to service, extend or refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors.Declines in our financial performance could result in additional impairment charges in future periods. United States generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") require annual (or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances warrant) impairment tests of goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets. Generally speaking, if the carrying value of the asset is in excess of the estimated fair value of the asset, the carrying value will be adjusted to fair value through an impairment charge. Fair values of goodwill and intangible assets are primarily estimated using discounted cash flows based on five-year forecasts of financial results that incorporate assumptions as to same-restaurant sales trends, future development plans and brand-enhancing initiatives, among other things. Fair values of long-lived tangible assets are primarily estimated using discounted cash flows over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Significant underachievement of forecasted results could reduce the estimated fair value of these assets below the carrying value, requiring non-cash impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of the asset. As of December 31, 2011, our total stockholders' equity was $155.2 million. A significant impairment write-down of goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets in the future could result in a deficit balance in stockholders' equity. While such a deficit balance would not create an incident of default in any of our contractual agreements, the negative perception of such a deficit could have an adverse effect on our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain new financing, or refinance existing indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.Our actual operating and financial results in any given period may differ from guidance we provide to the public, including our most recent public guidance. From time to time, in press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls and other contexts, we have provided guidance to the public regarding current business conditions and our expectations for our future financial results. We expect that we will provide guidance periodically in the future. Our guidance is based upon a number of assumptions, expectations and estimates that are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. In providing our guidance, we also make various assumptions with respect to our future business decisions, some of which will change. Our actual financial results, therefore, may vary from our guidance due to our inability to meet the assumptions upon which our guidance is based and the impact on our business of the various risks and uncertainties described in these risk factors and in our public filings with the SEC. Variances between our actual results and our guidance may be material. To the extent that our actual financial results do not meet or exceed our guidance, the trading prices of our securities may be materially adversely affected.The restaurant industry is highly competitive, and that competition could lower our revenues, margins and market share. The performance of individual restaurants may be adversely affected by factors such as traffic patterns, demographics and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location, personnel and the type and quality of food. Each Applebee's and IHOP restaurant competes directly and indirectly with a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as independent businesses. The trend toward convergence in grocery, deli, and restaurant services, as well as the continued expansion of restaurants into the breakfast daypart, may increase the number and variety of Applebee's and IHOP restaurants' competitors. In addition to the prevailing baseline level of competition, major market players in non-competing industries may choose to enter the food services market. Such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of Applebee's or IHOP restaurants in affected markets. Applebee's and IHOP restaurants also compete with other restaurant chains for qualified management and staff, and we compete with other restaurant chains for available locations for new restaurants. Applebee's and IHOP restaurants also face competition from the introduction of new products and menu items by competitors, as well as substantial price discounting, and are likely to face such competition in the future. The future success of new products, initiatives and overall strategies is highly 15Table of Contentsdifficult to predict and will be influenced by competitive product offerings, pricing and promotions offered by competitors. Our ability to differentiate the Applebee's and IHOP brands from their competitors, which is in part limited by the advertising monies available to us and by consumer perception, cannot be assured. These factors could reduce the gross sales or profitability at Applebee's or IHOP restaurants, which would reduce the revenues generated by company-owned restaurants and the franchise payments received from franchisees. Our business strategy may not achieve the anticipated results. We expect to continue to apply a business strategy that includes, among other things, (i) the transition to a 99% franchised Applebee's system; (ii) specific changes in the manner in which our Applebee's and IHOP businesses are managed and serviced, such as the February 2009 establishment of a purchasing cooperative, and the procurement of products and services from such purchasing cooperative; (iii) the possible introduction of new restaurant concepts; and (iv) the establishment of a shared service model across the brands for various functions, including legal, human resources and finance. However, the Applebee's business is different in many respects from the IHOP business. In particular, the Applebee's restaurants are part of the casual dining segment of the restaurant industry whereas the IHOP restaurants are part of the family dining segment, and the Applebee's business is larger, distributed differently across the United States and appeals to a somewhat different segment of the consumer market. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the business strategy we apply to the Applebee's business will be suitable or will achieve similar results to the application of such business strategy to the IHOP system. In particular, the refranchising of Applebee's company-operated restaurants may not improve the performance of such restaurants and may not reduce the capital expenditures or debt levels to the extent we anticipate or result in the other intended benefits of the strategy. The actual benefit from the refranchising of the Applebee's company-operated restaurants is uncertain and may be less than anticipated.As of December 31, 2011, we have refranchised 325 of the Applebee's company-operated restaurants acquired on November 29, 2007. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the refranchising of a substantial majority of the remaining 177 company-operated restaurants on terms that we and our creditors would consider desirable or within the anticipated time frame. In October 2011, we entered into an agreement for the refranchising and sale of related restaurant assets of 17 Applebee’s company-operated restaurants located in a six-state market area geographically centered around Memphis, Tennessee. The transaction closed in January 2012. Following these transactions, Applebee's system is 91% franchised. The anticipated proceeds from the refranchising of the company-operated restaurants are based on current market values, recent comparable transaction valuations, and a number of other assumptions. The refranchising of Applebee's company-operated restaurants may not be completed for several years. If market rents, comparable transaction valuations or other assumptions prove to be incorrect, the actual proceeds from the refranchising of the company-operated restaurants may be different than anticipated. In addition, adverse economic, market or other conditions existing in the states in which company-operated restaurants are located may adversely affect our ability to execute the refranchising transactions or to achieve the anticipated returns from such transactions. Market conditions may have changed at the time the refranchising transactions occur. Finally, the operational improvement initiatives or purchasing initiatives may not be successful or achieve the desired results. In particular, there can be no assurance that the existing franchisees or prospective new franchisees will respond favorably to such initiatives.Our performance is subject to risks associated with the restaurant industry. The sales and profitability of our restaurants and, in turn, payments from our franchisees may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, some of which are outside of our control. The most significant are:•declines in comparable restaurant sales growth rates due to: (i) failing to meet customers' expectations for food quality and taste or to innovate new menu items to retain the existing customer base and attract new customers; (ii) competitive intrusions in our markets; (iii) opening new restaurants that cannibalize the sales of existing restaurants; (iv) failure of national or local marketing to be effective; (v) weakening national, regional and local economic conditions; and (vi) natural disasters or adverse weather conditions.•negative trends in operating expenses such as: (i) increases in food costs including rising commodity costs; (ii) increases in labor costs including increases mandated by minimum wage and other employment laws, immigration reform, the potential impact of union organizing efforts, increases due to tight labor market conditions and rising health care and workers compensation costs; and (iii) increases in other operating costs including advertising, utilities, lease-related expenses and credit card processing fees;•the inability to open new restaurants that achieve and sustain acceptable sales volumes;•the inability to increase menu pricing to offset increased operating expenses;•failure to effectively manage further penetration into mature markets;•negative trends in the availability of credit and in expenses such as interest rates and the cost of construction materials that will affect our ability or our franchisees' ability to maintain and refurbish existing restaurants;•the inability to manage a large number of restaurants due to unanticipated changes in executive management, and 16Table of Contentsavailability of qualified restaurant management, staff and other personnel;•the inability to operate effectively in new and/or highly competitive geographic regions or local markets in which we or our franchisees have limited operating experience; and•the inability to manage a large number of restaurants in diverse geographic areas with a standardized operational and marketing approach.We may experience shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of food. Our franchised and company-operated restaurants are dependent on frequent deliveries of fresh produce, groceries and other food and beverage products. This subjects us to the risk of shortages or interruptions in food and beverage supplies which may result from a variety of causes including, but not limited to, shortages due to adverse weather, labor unrest, political unrest, terrorism, outbreaks of food-borne illness, disruption of operation of production facilities or other unforeseen circumstances. Such shortages could adversely affect our revenue and profits. The inability to secure adequate and reliable supplies or distribution of food and beverage products could limit our ability to make changes to our core menus or offer promotional "limited time only" menu items, which may limit our ability to implement our business strategies. Our restaurants bear risks associated with the timeliness of deliveries by suppliers and distributors as well as the solvency, reputation, labor relationships, freight rates, prices of raw materials and health and safety standards of each supplier and distributor. While the supply of pancake and waffle dry mixes is generally available, we currently obtain our pancake and dry mixes from a single manufacturer. Other significant risks associated with our suppliers and distributors include improper handling of food and beverage products and/or the adulteration or contamination of such food and beverage products. Disruptions in our relationships with suppliers and distributors may reduce the profits generated by company-operated restaurants or the payments we receive from franchisees.Changing health or dietary preferences may cause consumers to avoid Applebee's and IHOP's products in favor of alternative foods. The food service industry as a whole rests on consumer preferences and demographic trends at the local, regional, national and international levels, and the impact on consumer eating habits of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health. Our franchise development and system-wide sales depend on the sustained demand for our products, which may be affected by factors we do not control. Changes in nutritional guidelines issued by the United States Department of Agriculture, issuance of similar guidelines or statistical information by federal, state or local municipalities, or academic studies, among other things, may impact consumer choice and cause consumers to select foods other than those that are offered by Applebee's or IHOP restaurants. We may not be able to adequately adapt Applebee's or IHOP restaurants' menu offerings to keep pace with developments in consumer preferences, which may result in reductions to the revenues generated by our company-operated restaurants and the franchise payments we receive from franchisees.We are dependent upon our franchisees. We have significantly increased the percentage of restaurants owned and operated by our franchisees. While our franchise agreements are designed to maintain brand consistency, this increase in the franchised-operated restaurants reduces our direct day-to-day control over these restaurants and may expose us to risks not otherwise encountered if we maintained ownership and control of the restaurants. These risks include franchisee defaults in their obligations to us arising from financial or other difficulties encountered by them, such as payments to us or maintenance and improvement obligations; limitations on enforcement of franchise obligations due to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings; unwillingness of franchisees to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives; inability to participate in business strategy changes due to financial constraints; inability to meet rent obligations on leases on which we retain contingent liability; failure to operate restaurants in accordance with required standards; failure to report sales information accurately; efforts by one or more large franchisees to cause poor franchise relations; and failure to comply with food quality and preparation requirements subjecting us to potential losses even when we are not legally liable for a franchisee's actions or failure to act. Although we believe that our current relationships with our franchisees are generally good, there can be no assurance that we will maintain strong franchise relationships. Our dependence on franchisees could adversely affect us, our reputation and our brands, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face a variety of risks associated with doing business with franchisees, business partners and vendors in foreign markets. Our expansion into international markets could create risks to our brands and reputation. We believe that we have selected high-caliber international operating partners and franchisees with significant experience in restaurant operations. However, the ultimate success and quality of any franchise restaurant rests with the franchisee. If the franchisee does not successfully operate its restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards, or customers have negative experiences due to issues with food quality or operational execution, our brand values could suffer, which could have an adverse effect on our business.There also is no assurance that international operations will be profitable or that international growth will continue. Our international operations are subject to all of the same risks associated with our domestic operations, as well as a number of additional risks. These include, among other things, international economic and political conditions, foreign currency fluctuations, and differing cultures and consumer preferences. We also are subject to governmental regulations throughout the world that impact the way we do business with our international 17Table of Contentsfranchisees and vendors. These include antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, import/export/customs regulations and other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.Factors outside our control may harm our brands' reputations. The success of our restaurant business is largely dependent upon brand recognition and the strength of our franchise systems. The continued success of our company-operated restaurants and our franchisees will be directly dependent upon the maintenance of a favorable public view of the Applebee's and IHOP brands. Negative publicity (e.g., crime, scandal, litigation, on-site accidents and injuries or other harm to customers) at a single Applebee's or IHOP location can have a substantial negative impact on the operations of all restaurants within the Applebee's or IHOP system. Multi-unit food service businesses such as ours can be materially and adversely affected by widespread negative publicity of any type, but particularly regarding food quality, food-borne illness, food tampering, obesity, injury or other health concerns with respect to certain foods, whether or not accurate or valid. The risk of food-borne illness or food tampering cannot be completely eliminated. Any outbreak of food-borne illness or other food-related incidents attributed to Applebee's or IHOP restaurants or within the food service industry or any widespread negative publicity regarding the Applebee's or IHOP brands or the restaurant industry in general could harm our reputation. Although the Company maintains liability insurance, and each franchisee is required to maintain liability insurance pursuant to its franchise agreements, a liability claim could injure the reputation of all Applebee's or IHOP restaurants, whether or not it is ultimately successful.We may be subject to legal proceedings that could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time and result in the diversion of significant operational resources. We are involved in lawsuits, claims and proceedings incident to the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. Any claims against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time and result in the diversion of significant operational resources. There have been a growing number of lawsuits in recent years. There has also been a rise in employment-related lawsuits. From time to time, we have been subject to these types of lawsuits. The cost of defending claims against us or the ultimate resolution of such claims may harm our business and operating results. In addition, the increasingly regulated business environment may result in a greater number of enforcement actions and private litigation. This could subject us to increased exposure to stockholder lawsuits.We and our franchisees are subject to a variety of litigation. We and our franchisees are subject to complaints or litigation from guests alleging illness, injury or other food quality, food safety, health or operational concerns. We and our franchisees are also subject to "dram shop" laws in some states pursuant to which we and our franchisees may be subject to liability in connection with personal injuries or property damages incurred in connection with wrongfully serving alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person. We may also initiate legal proceedings against franchisees for breach of the terms of their franchise agreements, including underreporting of sales. Such claims may reduce the profits generated by company-operated restaurants and the ability of franchisees to make payments to us. These claims may also reduce the ability of franchisees to enter into new franchise agreements with us. Although our franchise agreements require our franchisees to defend and indemnify us, we may be named as a defendant and sustain liability in legal proceedings against franchisees under the doctrines of vicarious liability, agency, negligence or otherwise.Ownership of real property exposes us to potential environmental liabilities. The ownership of real property exposes us to potential environmental liabilities from United States federal, state and local governmental authorities and private lawsuits by individuals or businesses. The potential environmental liabilities in connection with the ownership of real estate are highly uncertain. We currently do not have actual knowledge of any environmental liabilities that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. From time to time, we have experienced some non-material environmental liabilities resulting from environmental issues at our properties. While we are unaware of any material environmental liabilities, it is possible that material environmental liabilities relating to our properties may arise in the future.Matters involving employees at certain company-operated restaurants expose us to potential liability. We are subject to United States federal, state and local employment laws that expose us to potential liability if we are determined to have violated such employment laws. Failure to comply with federal and state labor laws pertaining to minimum wage, overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, child labor requirements, sales taxes and other employment-related matters may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. In addition, employee claims based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination may divert financial and management resources and adversely affect operations. The losses that may be incurred as a result of any violation of such employment laws are difficult to quantify.Our failure or the failure of our franchisees to comply with federal, state and local governmental regulations may subject us to losses and harm our brands. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act (which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions), along with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters, including tip credits, working 18Table of Contentsconditions, safety standards and immigration status. We expect increases in payroll expenses as a result of federal and state mandated increases in the minimum wage, and although such increases are not expected to be material, we cannot assure you that there will not be material increases in the future. Enactment and enforcement of various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations on immigration and labor organizations may adversely impact the availability and costs of labor for our restaurants in a particular area or across the United States. Other labor shortages or increased team member turnover could also increase labor costs. In addition, our vendors may be affected by higher minimum wage standards or availability of labor, which may increase the price of goods and services they supply to us. We continue to review the health care reform law enacted by Congress in March of 2010 and regulations issued related to the law to evaluate the potential impact of this new law on our business, and to accommodate various parts of the law as they take effect. There are no assurances that a combination of cost management and price increases can accommodate all of the costs associated with compliance. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages and those relating to building and zoning requirements. Each of our and our franchisees' restaurants is also subject to licensing and regulation by alcoholic beverage control, health, sanitation, safety and fire agencies in the state, county and/or municipality where the restaurant is located. We generally have not encountered any material difficulties or failures in obtaining and maintaining the required licenses and approvals that could impact the continuing operations of an existing restaurant, or delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant. Although we do not, at this time, anticipate any occurring in the future, we cannot assure you that we or our franchisees will not experience material difficulties or failures that could impact the continuing operations of an existing restaurant, or delay the opening of restaurants in the future. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations, which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, relating to nutritional content and menu labeling. Compliance with these laws and regulations may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. In connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain restaurants, we or our franchisees may be required to expend funds to meet federal, state and local and foreign regulations. The inability to obtain or maintain such licenses or publicity resulting from actual or alleged violations of such laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Finally, we are subject to federal regulation and certain state laws which govern the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws contain provisions that supersede the terms of franchise agreements, including provisions concerning the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some state franchise laws require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in that state. The failure to obtain or retain licenses or approvals to sell franchises could adversely affect us and the franchisees. Changes in, and the cost of compliance with, government regulations could have a material effect on operations. Restaurant development plans under development agreements may not be implemented effectively. We rely on franchisees to develop Applebee's and IHOP restaurants. Restaurant development involves substantial risks, including the following:•the availability of suitable locations and terms for potential development sites;•the ability of franchisees to fulfill their commitments to build new restaurants in the numbers and the time frames specified in their development agreements;•the availability of financing, at acceptable rates and terms, to both franchisees and third-party landlords, for restaurant development;•delays in obtaining construction permits and in completion of construction;•developed properties not achieving desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened;•competition for suitable development sites;•changes in governmental rules, regulations, and interpretations (including interpretations of the requirements of the ADA); and•general economic and business conditions.We cannot assure that the development and construction of facilities will be completed, or that any such development will be completed in a timely manner. We cannot assure that present or future development will perform in accordance with our expectations.The opening and success of Applebee's and IHOP restaurants depend on various factors, including the demand for Applebee's and IHOP restaurants and the selection of appropriate franchisee candidates, the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, costs of construction, permit issuance and regulatory compliance, the ability to meet construction schedules, the availability of financing and other capabilities of franchisees. There is no assurance that franchisees planning the opening of restaurants will have the business abilities or sufficient access to financial resources necessary 19Table of Contentsto open the restaurants required by their agreements. It cannot be assured that franchisees will successfully participate in our strategic initiatives or operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our concepts and standards.Concentration of Applebee's franchised restaurants in a limited number of franchisees subjects us to greater credit risk. As of December 31, 2011, Applebee's franchisees operated 1,694 Applebee's restaurants in the United States, comprising 91% of the total Applebee's restaurants in the United States. Of those restaurants, the nine largest Applebee's franchisees owned 933 restaurants, representing 55% of all franchised Applebee's restaurants in the United States. The concentration of franchised restaurants in a limited number of franchisees subjects us to a potentially higher level of credit risk in respect of such franchisees because their financial obligations to us are greater as compared to those franchisees with fewer restaurants. The risk associated with these franchisees is also greater where franchisees are the sole or dominant franchisee for a particular region of the United States, as is the case for most domestic Applebee's franchised territories. In particular, if any of these franchisees experiences financial or other difficulties, the franchisee may default on its obligations under multiple franchise agreements including payments to us and the maintenance and improvement of its restaurants. If any of these franchisees are subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, a bankruptcy court may prevent the termination of the related franchise agreements and development agreements. Any franchisee that is experiencing financial difficulties may also be unable to participate in implementing changes to our business strategy. Any franchisee that owns and operates a significant number of Applebee's restaurants and fails to comply with its other obligations under the franchise agreement, such as those relating to the quality and preparation of food and maintenance of restaurants, could cause significant harm to the Applebee's brand and subject us to claims by consumers even if we are not legally liable for the franchisee's actions or failure to act. The refranchising of most of the company-operated Applebee's restaurants that is part of our strategy may increase the degree of concentration of franchised Applebee's restaurants because the existing franchisees are the likely candidates to acquire company-operated restaurants. The concentration of the franchised Applebee's restaurants in a limited number of franchisees also may reduce our negotiating power with respect to the terms of sale of the company-operated Applebee's restaurants. Development rights for Applebee's restaurants are also concentrated among a limited number of existing franchisees. If any of these existing franchisees experience financial difficulties, future development of Applebee's restaurants may be materially adversely affected.We are subject to credit risk from our IHOP franchisees operating under our Previous Business Model, and a default by these franchisees may negatively affect our cash flows. Of the 1,535 IHOP restaurants subject to franchise and area license agreements as of December 31, 2011, over half operate under the Previous Business Model. The Company was involved in all aspects of the development and financing of the IHOP restaurants established prior to 2003. Under the Previous Business Model, the Company typically identified and leased or purchased the restaurant sites, built and equipped the restaurants and then franchised them to franchisees. In addition, IHOP typically financed as much as 80% of the franchise fee for periods ranging from five to eight years and leased the restaurant and equipment to the franchisee over a 25-year period. Therefore, in addition to franchise fees and royalties, the revenues received from an IHOP franchisee operating under the Previous Business Model include, among other things, lease or sublease rents for the restaurant property building, rent under an equipment lease and interest income from the financing arrangements for the unpaid portion of the franchise fee under the franchise notes. If any of these IHOP franchisees were to default on their payment obligations to us, we may be unable to collect the amounts owed under our notes and equipment contract receivables as well as outstanding franchise royalties. The higher amounts owed to us by each of these IHOP franchisees subject us to greater credit risk and defaults by IHOP franchisees operating under our Previous Business Model may negatively affect our cash flows.Termination or non-renewal of franchise agreements may disrupt restaurant performance. Each franchise agreement is subject to termination by us in the event of default by the franchisee after applicable cure periods. Upon the expiration of the initial term of a franchise agreement, the franchisee generally has an option to renew the franchise agreement for an additional term. There is no assurance that franchisees will meet the criteria for renewal or will desire or be able to renew their franchise agreements. If not renewed, a franchise agreement, and payments required thereunder, will terminate. We may be unable to find a new franchisee to replace such lost revenues. Furthermore, while we will be entitled to terminate franchise agreements following a default that is not cured within the applicable grace period, if any, such termination may disrupt the performance of the restaurants affected.Franchisees may breach the terms of their franchise agreements in a manner that adversely affects our brands. Franchisees are required to conform to specified product quality standards and other requirements pursuant to their franchise agreements in order to protect our brands and to optimize restaurant performance. However, franchisees may receive through the supply chain or produce sub-standard food or beverage products, which may adversely impact the reputation of our brands. Franchisees may also breach the standards set forth in their respective franchise agreements.Franchisees are subject to potential losses that are not covered by insurance that may negatively impact their ability to make payments to us and perform other obligations under franchise agreements. Franchisees may have insufficient insurance coverage to cover all of the potential risks associated with the ownership and operation of their restaurants. A franchisee may have insufficient funds to cover unanticipated increases in insurance premiums or losses that are not covered by insurance. Certain extraordinary hazards may not be covered and insurance may not be available (or may be available only at prohibitively expensive 20Table of Contentsrates) with respect to many other risks. Moreover, there is no assurance that any loss incurred will not exceed the limits on the policies obtained, or that payments on such policies will be received on a timely basis, or even if obtained on a timely basis, that such payments will prevent losses to such franchisee or enable timely franchise payments. Accordingly, in cases in which a franchisee experiences increased insurance premiums or must pay claims out-of-pocket, the franchisee may not have the funds necessary to make franchise payments.Franchisees generally are not "limited purpose entities," making them subject to business, credit, financial and other risks. Franchisees may be natural persons or legal entities. Franchisees are often not "limited-purpose entities," making them subject to business, credit, financial and other risks which may be unrelated to the operations of Applebee's or IHOP restaurants. These unrelated risks could materially and adversely affect a franchisee and its ability to make its franchise payments in full or on a timely basis. Any such decrease in franchise payments may have a material adverse effect on us. See the Risk Factor titled "An insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding involving a franchisee could prevent the collection of payments or the exercise of rights under the related franchise agreement," below.An insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding involving a franchisee could prevent the collection of payments or the exercise of rights under the related franchise agreement. An insolvency proceeding involving a franchisee could prevent us from collecting payments or exercising any of our other rights under the related franchise agreement. In particular, the protection of the statutory automatic stay that arises under Section 362 of the United States Bankruptcy Code upon the commencement of a bankruptcy proceeding by or against a franchisee would prohibit us from terminating a franchise agreement previously entered into with a franchisee. Furthermore, a franchisee that is subject to bankruptcy proceedings may reject the franchise agreement in which case we would be limited to a general unsecured claim against the franchisee's bankruptcy estate on account of breach-of-contract damages arising from the rejection. Payments previously made to us by a franchisee that is subject to a bankruptcy proceeding also may be recoverable on behalf of the franchisee as a preferential transfer under the United States Bankruptcy Code.The number and quality of franchisees is subject to change over time, which may negatively affect our business. Our Applebee's business is highly concentrated in a limited number of franchisees. We cannot guarantee the retention of any, including the top performing, franchisees in the future, or that we will maintain the ability to attract, retain, and motivate sufficient numbers of franchisees of the same caliber. The quality of existing franchisee operations may be diminished by factors beyond our control, including franchisees' failure or inability to hire or retain qualified managers and other personnel. Training of managers and other personnel may be inadequate. These and other such negative factors could reduce the franchisee's restaurant revenues, impact payments under the franchise agreements and could have a material adverse effect on us. In the case of Applebee's, these negative factors would be magnified by the limited number of existing franchisees.The inability of franchisees to fund capital expenditures may adversely impact future growth. Our business strategy includes the periodic updating of Applebee's and IHOP restaurant locations through new remodel programs and other operational changes. The success of that business strategy will depend to a significant extent on the ability of the franchisees to fund the necessary capital expenditures to aid the repositioning and re-energizing of the brand. Labor and material costs expended will vary by geographical location and are subject to general price increases. To the extent the franchisees are not able to fund the necessary capital expenditures, our business strategy may take longer to implement and may not be as successful as we expect.Third-party claims with respect to intellectual property assets, if decided against us, may result in competing uses or require adoption of new, non-infringing intellectual property, which may in turn adversely affect sales and revenues. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us, or assert claims that our rights in our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property assets are invalid or unenforceable. Any such claims could have a material adverse effect on us or our franchisees if such claims were to be decided against us. If our rights in any intellectual property were invalidated or deemed unenforceable, it could permit competing uses of intellectual property which, in turn, could lead to a decline in restaurant revenues and sales of other branded products and services (if any). If the intellectual property became subject to third-party infringement, misappropriation or other claims, and such claims were decided against us, we may be forced to pay damages, be required to develop or adopt non-infringing intellectual property or be obligated to acquire a license to the intellectual property that is the subject of the asserted claim. There could be significant expenses associated with the defense of any infringement, misappropriation, or other third-party claims.If franchisees and other licensees do not observe the required quality and trademark usage standards, our brands may suffer reputational damage, which could in turn adversely affect our business. We license our intellectual property to our franchisees, product suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, advertisers and other third parties. The franchise agreements and other license agreements require that each franchisee or other licensee use the intellectual property in accordance with established or approved quality control guidelines. However, there can be no assurance that the franchisees or other licensees will use the intellectual property assets in accordance with such guidelines. Franchisee and licensee noncompliance with the terms and conditions of the governing franchise agreement or other license agreement may reduce the overall goodwill associated with our brands. Franchisees and other licensees may refer to our intellectual property improperly in communications, resulting in the weakening of the distinctiveness of our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the franchisees or other licensees will 21Table of Contentsnot take actions that could have a material adverse effect on the Applebee's or IHOP intellectual property.In addition, even if the licensee product suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, or advertisers observe and maintain the quality and integrity of the intellectual property assets in accordance with the relevant license agreement, any product manufactured by such suppliers may be subject to regulatory sanctions and other actions by third parties which can, in turn, negatively impact the perceived quality of our restaurants and the overall goodwill of our brands, regardless of the nature and type of product involved. Any such actions could reduce restaurant revenues and corresponding franchise payments to us.We are heavily dependent on information technology and any material failure of that technology could impair our ability to efficiently operate our business. We rely heavily on information systems across our operations, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, payment of obligations and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with maintenance, upgrading or transitioning to replacement systems, fraudulent manipulation of sales reporting from our restaurants, or a breach in security of these systems could be harmful and cause delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations. Significant capital investments might be required to remediate any problems.Failure to protect the integrity and security of individually identifiable data of customers, vendors or employees may subject us to loss and harm our brands. We might receive and maintain, for varying lengths of time, certain personal or business information about customers, vendors and employees. The use of this information by us is regulated by foreign, federal and state laws, as well as by certain third-party agreements. If our security and information systems are compromised or if our employees or franchisees fail to comply with these laws and regulations, and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation and could result in costs to defend or settle litigation, to pay judgments awarded from litigation, or pay penalties resulting from violation of federal and state laws and payment card industry regulations. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure that we remain in compliance with said laws and regulations.Our inability or failure to execute on a comprehensive business continuity plan following a major natural disaster such as an earthquake, tornado or man-made disaster, including terrorism, at our corporate facilities could materially adversely impact our business. Our corporate systems and processes and corporate support for our restaurant operations are handled primarily at our two restaurant support centers. We have disaster recovery procedures and business continuity plans in place to address most events of a crisis nature, including earthquakes, tornadoes and other natural disasters, and back up and off-site locations for recovery of electronic and other forms of data and information. However, if we are unable to fully implement our disaster recovery plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support field operations and other breakdowns in normal communication and operating procedures that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and exposure to administrative and other legal claims.Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.Retail brand development initiatives could negatively impact our IHOP brand. Our business expansion into retail product licensing could create new risks to our IHOP brand and reputation. During 2011, IHOP launched a line of premium frozen breakfast entrées and pancake syrups in retail outlets. We believe that this new retail product offering is a growth opportunity that allows our brand to reach additional customers more often. If customers have negative perceptions or experiences with retail products, our brand value could suffer which could have an adverse effect on our business. Failure of our internal controls over financial reporting and future changes in accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected operating results, affect our reported results of operations or otherwise harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting 22Table of Contentsfailure or material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our common stock. A change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing accounting rules or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. Additionally, our assumptions, estimates and judgments related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by us. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by us could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.