Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to our Restaurant Business Shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of food supplies or price increases could adversely affect our system-wide sales, revenues or profits. Our franchised and Company-operated restaurants are dependent on frequent deliveries of fresh produce, groceries and other food and beverage products. This subjects us to the risk of shortages or interruptions in food and beverage supplies which may result from a variety of causes including, but not limited to, shortages due to adverse weather, labor unrest, political unrest, terrorism or other unforeseen circumstances. Such shortages could adversely affect our revenue and profits. Similarly, unanticipated increases in the cost of food and beverage products could adversely affect our revenue and profits. The inability to secure adequate and reliable supplies or distribution of food and beverage products could limit our ability to make changes to our 15 core menus or offer promotional "limited time only" menu items, which may limit our ability to implement our business strategies. Our restaurants bear risks associated with the timeliness of deliveries by suppliers and distributors as well as the solvency, reputation, labor relationships, freight rates, prices of raw materials and health and safety standards of each supplier and distributor. Other significant risks associated with our suppliers and distributors include improper handling of food and beverage products and/or the adulteration or contamination of such food and beverage products. Disruptions in our relationships with suppliers and distributors may reduce the profits generated by Company-owned restaurants or the payments we receive from franchisees. Although we may establish one or more purchasing cooperatives and procure products and services from such purchasing cooperative on behalf of our restaurants and franchisees, we are under no obligation to do so and may stop maintaining or procuring products and services from such purchasing cooperatives at any time. Changing health or dietary preferences may cause consumers to avoid Applebee's and IHOP's brand products in favor of alternative foods. The food service industry as a whole rests on consumer preferences and demographic trends at the local, regional, national and international levels, and the impact on consumer eating habits of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health. Our franchise development and system-wide sales depend on the sustained demand for products and goods for which we control offerings and innovation, but which may be affected by factors we do not control. Changes in nutritional guidelines issued by the United States Department of Agriculture, issuance of similar guidelines or statistical information by federal, state or local municipalities, or academic studies, among other things, may impact consumer choice and cause consumers to select foods perceived as healthier than those that are offered by Applebee's or IHOP restaurants. We may not be able to adequately adapt Applebee's or IHOP restaurants' product lines to keep pace with developments in current consumer preferences, which may result in reductions to the revenues generated by our Company-owned restaurants and the franchise payments we receive from franchisees. Negative publicity in connection with unanticipated events may materially and adversely affect our business. Multi-unit food service businesses such as ours can be materially and adversely affected by widespread negative publicity of any type, but particularly regarding food quality, food-borne illness, food tampering, obesity, injury or other health concerns with respect to certain foods, whether or not accurate or valid. The risk of food-borne illness or food tampering cannot be completely eliminated. Any outbreak of food-borne illness or other food-related incidents attributed to Applebee's or IHOP restaurants or within the food service industry or any widespread negative publicity regarding the Applebee's or IHOP brands or the restaurant industry in general could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The restaurant industry is highly competitive, and that competition could lower our revenues, margins and market share. The performance of individual restaurants may be adversely affected by factors such as traffic patterns, demographics and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location, personnel and the type and quality of food. Each Applebee's and IHOP restaurant competes directly and indirectly with a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as with locally-owned quick service restaurants, fast-casual restaurants, sandwich shops and similar types of businesses. The trend toward convergence in grocery, deli, and restaurant services may increase the number and variety of Applebee's and IHOP restaurants' competitors. In addition to the prevailing baseline level of competition, major market players in non-competing industries may choose to enter the food services market. Such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of Applebee's or IHOP restaurants in affected markets. Applebee's and IHOP restaurants also compete with other restaurant chains for qualified management and staff, and we compete with other restaurant chains for available locations for new restaurants. Applebee's and IHOP restaurants also face competition from the introduction of new products and menu items by competitors, as well as substantial price discounting, and may continue to do so in the future. Although 16 we may implement a number of business strategies, the future success of new products, initiatives and overall strategies is highly difficult to predict and will be influenced by competitive product offerings, pricing and promotions offered by competitors. Our ability to differentiate the Applebee's and IHOP brands from their competitors, which is in part limited by the advertising budget available to us and consumer perception, cannot be assured. These factors could reduce the gross sales or profitability at Applebee's or IHOP restaurants, which would reduce the revenues generated by Company-owned restaurants and the franchise payments received from franchisees. We may have difficulty expanding into new geographic markets in the United States. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully expand or acquire critical market presence for our brands in new geographic markets, as we may encounter well-established competitors with substantially greater financial resources. Our franchisees may be unable to find attractive locations, acquire name recognition, successfully market our products and attract new customers. Competitive circumstances and consumer characteristics in new market segments and new geographic markets may differ substantially from those in the market segments and geographic markets in which we have substantial experience. We cannot assure that our franchisees will be able to profitably operate new franchised restaurants in new geographic markets. Management decisions to curtail or cease investment in certain locations or markets may result in impairment charges. We may have difficulty expanding in new markets outside the United States. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in our international markets or in achieving expected growth. Certain inherent risks are associated with international markets such as foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, interpretation and application of laws and regulations, lack of political stability, restrictive actions of foreign or United States governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership, import or other business licensing requirements, the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights, and lower levels of consumer spending on a per capita basis than in the United States. Our business is subject to macroeconomic and other factors that may negatively impact our results of operations. Our business is dependent to a significant extent on national, regional and local economic conditions, particularly those that affect the demographics that are usually "heavy users" of Applebee's or IHOP restaurants. In particular, where disposable income available for discretionary spending is reduced (such as by higher housing, taxes, energy, interest or other costs or where the perceived wealth of customers has decreased (because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, increased tax rates or other economic disruptions)), our business could experience lower sales and customer traffic as potential customers choose lower-cost alternatives (such as quick-service restaurants or fast casual dining) or choose alternatives to dining out. Applebee's and IHOP restaurants are also affected by demographic trends, trade areas and traffic patterns near the restaurants. These factors could reduce Applebee's or IHOP restaurant gross sales or profitability and in turn, payments from franchisees. A number of other factors, some of which are outside our control, may materially and adversely affect our business. The sales and profitability of our restaurants and, in turn, payments from our franchisees may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, some of which are outside our control. The most significant are: •declines in comparable store sales growth rates due to: (i) failing to consistently provide high quality products and innovate new products to retain the existing customer base and attract new customers; (ii) competitive intrusion in a market; (iii) opening new restaurants that may cannibalize the sales of existing restaurants; and (iv) failure of national or local marketing to be effective; 17 •negative trends in operating expenses such as: (i) increases in food costs including rising commodity costs; (ii) increases in labor costs including increases in minimum wage and other employment laws, immigration reform, increases due to tight labor market conditions, health care and workers compensation costs; and (iii) increases in other operating costs including utilities, lease-related expenses and credit card processing fees; •the inability to open new restaurants at acceptable sales volumes; •the inability to increase menu pricing to offset increased operating expenses; •failure to effectively manage further penetration into mature markets; •negative trends in other expenses such as interest rates and the cost of construction materials that will affect our ability or our franchisees' ability to maintain and refurbish existing stores; •the inability to manage a large number of restaurants due to unanticipated changes in executive management, and availability of qualified restaurant management, staff and other personnel; •the inability to operate effectively in new and/or highly competitive geographic regions or local markets in which we or our franchisees have limited operating experience; and •the inability to manage a large number of restaurants in many geographic areas with a standardized operational and marketing approach. Ownership of real property exposes us to potential liability. The ownership of real property exposes us to potential environmental liabilities from U.S. Federal, state and local governmental authorities and private lawsuits by individuals and other private businesses. The potential environmental liabilities in connection with the ownership of real estate are highly uncertain. We currently do not have actual knowledge of any environmental liabilities that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. From time to time, our properties have experienced some non-material environmental liabilities. While we are unaware of any material environmental liabilities, it is possible that material environmental liabilities relating to our properties may be exposed or may arise in the future. We and our franchisees are subject to a variety of litigation risks that may negatively impact performance. We and our franchisees are subject to complaints or litigation from guests alleging illness, injury or other food quality, food safety, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could harm the operation and profitability of the Applebee's or IHOP restaurants, regardless of whether the allegations are valid. Failure to comply with the various U.S. Federal and state labor laws pertaining to minimum wage, overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, child labor requirements and sales taxes may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. In addition, employee claims based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination may divert financial and management resources and adversely affect operations. We and our franchisees are also subject to "dram shop" laws in some states pursuant to which we and our franchisees may be subject to liability in connection with personal injuries or property damages incurred in connection with wrongfully serving alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person. We may also initiate legal proceedings against franchisees for breach of the terms of their franchise agreements. Each of these claims may reduce the profits generated by Company-owned restaurants and the ability of franchisees to make payments to us. These claims may also reduce the ability of franchisees to enter into new franchise agreements with us. As a franchisor, we may be named a defendant and sustain liability in any legal proceeding against a franchisee under the doctrines of vicarious liability, agency, negligence or otherwise. 18 Employment of employees at certain Company-owned restaurants exposes us to potential liability. We are subject to U.S. Federal, state and local employment laws that expose us to potential liability if we are determined to have violated employment laws by the applicable government authority. The losses that may be incurred as a result of any violation of such employment laws are difficult to quantify. In particular, our subsidiary, Applebee's International, Inc. is party to a number of employment-related and wage-related lawsuits, including a collective action suit filed in July 2006 in a U.S. Federal court in Missouri relating to minimum wage and tip credit for past and present servers and bartenders whose minimum wage calculation included "tip credit." The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that Applebee's International violated the Fair Labor Standards of 1938, as amended (the "Fair Labor Standards Act"), by failing to pay the legally mandated minimum wage for work such as general preparation or maintenance work, for which the employees did not earn tips. We are actively defending against the case and intend to seek decertification of the class, which motion is expected to be heard in early 2009 following discovery proceedings. Since the case is at a very preliminary stage, we cannot currently make an estimate as to the chance of success for the plaintiffs or the magnitude of liability associated with the case if the class is not decertified and if the case is decided against us, significant changes to the timekeeping systems of Applebee's restaurants or increases in employee wage rates may be required. Franchisees, like other restaurant operators, may face similar claims based on their methods of operation. Our failure or the failure of our franchisees to comply with federal, state and local governmental regulations may subject us to losses and harm our brands. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive U.S. Federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages and those relating to building and zoning requirements and employment. We are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and citizenship requirements. In connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain restaurants, we or our franchisees may be required to expend funds to meet United States federal, state and local and foreign regulations. The ability to obtain or maintain such licenses or publicity resulting from actual or alleged violations of such laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to federal regulation and certain state laws which govern the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws contain provisions that supersede the terms of franchise agreements, including provisions concerning the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some state franchise laws require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in that state. The failure to obtain or retain licenses or approvals to sell franchises could adversely affect the us and the franchisees. Changes in, and the cost of compliance with, government regulations could have a material effect on operations. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, various other laws and state and local regulations in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we operate from time to time, governing such matters as minimum-wage requirements, overtime and other working conditions and citizenship requirements. A significant number of the food-service employees in our restaurants are paid at rates related to the United States federal minimum wage or the relevant state minimum wage, and past increases in the United States federal and state minimum wage, as well as changes in the method of calculating the minimum wage and crediting of tips, have increased labor costs, as would future increases. Any increases in labor costs might result in us or our franchisees inadequately staffing Applebee's or IHOP restaurants. Understaffed restaurants could result in reduced gross sales and decreased profits at such restaurants. We and our franchisees must also comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA"). Compliance with the ADA generally requires that public spaces provide reasonable accommodation to disabled individuals and that new commercial spaces or modifications of commercial 19 spaces conform to specific accessibility guidelines unless materially unfeasible. Although newer restaurants are designed to meet the ADA construction standards, some older restaurants may not. A finding of noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or additional capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. Any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures could adversely affect our revenue or profits. Harm to our brands may have a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our restaurant business is largely dependent upon brand recognition and the strength of our franchise systems. The continued success of Company-owned restaurants and our franchisees will be directly dependent upon the strength of the Applebee's and IHOP systems. There is no assurance that the prior performance of the Applebee's or IHOP system will be indicative of future results. Changes or problems within the Applebee's or IHOP system or at other locations (e.g., crime, scandal, litigation, negative publicity, on site accidents and injuries or other harm to customers) can have a substantial negative impact on the operations of otherwise successful individual locations. Although each franchisee is required to maintain liability insurance pursuant to its franchise agreements, a successful liability claim could injure the reputation of all Applebee's or IHOP restaurants. Even if unsuccessful, such a claim could cause unfavorable publicity and entail substantial expense. Restaurant development plans under development agreements may not be implemented effectively. We rely on franchisees to develop Applebee's and IHOP restaurants. Development involves substantial risks, including the following: •the availability of suitable locations and terms for potential development sites; •the ability of franchisees to fulfill their commitments to build new restaurants in the numbers and the time frame specified in their development agreements; •the availability of financing to franchisees at acceptable rates and terms; •delays in completion of construction; •developed properties not achieving desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened; •competition for suitable development sites; •changes in governmental rules, regulations, and interpretations (including interpretations of the requirements of the ADA); and •general economic and business conditions. We cannot assure that present or future development will perform in accordance with our expectations. We cannot assure that the development and construction of facilities will be completed, or that any such development will be completed in a timely manner. The opening and success of Applebee's and IHOP restaurants depends on various factors, including the demand for Applebee's and IHOP restaurants and the selection of appropriate franchisee candidates, the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, costs of construction, permit issuance and regulatory compliance, the ability to meet construction schedules, the availability of financing and other capabilities of franchisees. There is no assurance that franchisees planning the opening of restaurants will have the business abilities or sufficient access to financial resources necessary to open the restaurants required by their agreements. It cannot be assured that franchisees will successfully participate in our strategic initiatives or operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our concept and standards. Various factors affecting advertising may materially adversely affect our restaurant business. We plan to continue our IHOP advertising campaign, "Come hungry. Leave happy", which we believe resonates 20 positively with our customers, as well as continue to shift advertising expenditures from local market spending to coordinate national spending with the support of our franchisees. We will soon launch new advertising to re-establish the brand positioning of Applebee's and deliver a clear and consistent message to consumers regarding the dining experience offered by Applebee's restaurants. This business strategy involves advertising at the national, regional and local levels. If competitors increase spending on advertising and promotion or develop more effective advertising, the cost of advertising increases, or the advertising funds available to us decrease for any reason, including implementation of reduced spending strategies, or the advertising and promotion of the Applebee's and IHOP brands proves to be less effective than that of competitors, our restaurant business could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to Franchisees Concentration of Applebee's franchised restaurants in a limited number of franchisees subjects us to greater credit risk. As of December 31, 2007, Applebee's franchisees operated 1,354 Applebee's restaurants in the United States (which comprised 73% of the total Applebee's restaurants in the United States). As of December 31, 2007, the nine largest Applebee's franchisees owned 714 restaurants, representing 52.7% of all franchised Applebee's restaurants in the United States. The concentration of franchised restaurants in a limited number of franchisees subjects us to a significant level of credit risk in respect of such franchisees. Each of the risks relating to franchisees described in this section is magnified in respect of such franchisees. The risk associated with these franchisees is particularly magnified among those franchisees who are the sole or dominant franchisee for a particular region of the United States, as is the case for most domestic franchised territories. In particular, if any of these franchisees experiences financial or other difficulties, they may default on their obligations under their respective franchise agreements including payments to us and the maintenance and improvement of their respective restaurants. If any of these franchisees are subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, a bankruptcy court may prevent the termination of the related franchise agreements and development agreements. Any franchisee that is experiencing financial difficulties may also be unable to participate in implementing changes to our business strategy. Any franchisee who owns and operates a significant number of Applebee's restaurants who fails to comply with its other obligations under the franchise agreement, such as the quality and preparation of food supplies and maintenance of restaurants, could cause irreparable harm to the Applebee's brand and subject us to potential liability claims by consumers even if we are not legally liable for the franchisee's actions or failure to act. The refranchising of most the Company-owned Applebee's restaurants that is part of our strategy is not expected to reduce the concentration of franchised Applebee's restaurants in a limited number of franchisees because the existing franchisees are the most likely candidates to acquire such Company-owned restaurants. The concentration of the franchised Applebee's restaurants in a limited number of franchisees may also reduce our negotiating power in negotiating the terms of sale of the Company-owned Applebee's restaurants to such franchisees. Development rights for Applebee's restaurants are also concentrated among a limited number of existing franchisees. Therefore if any of these existing franchisees experience financial difficulties that do not require them to cede such development rights, future development of Applebee's restaurants in the applicable domestic territories may be materially adversely affected. Termination or non-renewal of franchise agreements may disrupt restaurant performance. Each franchise agreement is subject to termination by us in the event of default by the franchisee after applicable cure periods. Upon the expiration of the initial term of a franchise agreement, the franchisee generally has an option to renew the franchise agreement for an additional term. There is no assurance that franchisees will meet the criteria for renewal or will desire or be able to renew their franchise agreements. If not renewed, a franchise agreement, and payments required thereunder, will terminate. We may be unable to find a new franchisee to replace such lost revenues. Furthermore, while we will be entitled to terminate franchise agreements following a default that is not cured within the applicable 21 grace period, if any, the disruption to the performance of the restaurants could materially and adversely affect our business. Franchisees may breach the terms of their franchise agreements in a manner that adversely affects our brands. Franchisees are subject to specified product quality standards and other requirements pursuant to the related franchise agreements in order to protect our brand and to optimize restaurant performance. However, franchisees may receive through the supply chain or produce defective food or beverage products, which may adversely impact the goodwill of our brands. Franchisees may also breach the standards set forth in their respective franchise agreements. Franchisees are subject to potential losses that are not covered by insurance that may negatively impact their ability to make payments to us and perform other obligations under franchise agreements. Franchisees may have insufficient insurance coverage to cover all of the potential risks associated with the ownership and operation of their restaurants. A franchisee may have insufficient funds to cover unanticipated increases in insurance premiums or losses that are not covered by insurance. Certain extraordinary hazards may not be covered and insurance may not be available (or may be available only at prohibitively expensive rates) with respect to many other risks. Moreover, there is no assurance that any loss incurred will not exceed the limits on the policies obtained, or that payments on such policies will be received on a timely basis, or even if obtained on a timely basis, that such payments will prevent losses to such franchisee or enable timely franchise payments. Accordingly, in cases in which a franchisee experiences increased insurance premiums or must pay claims out-of-pocket, the franchisee may not have the funds necessary to pay franchise payments. Franchisees generally are not "limited purpose entities", making them subject to business, credit, financial and other risks. Franchisees may be natural persons or legal entities. Franchisees generally are not "limited-purpose entities," making them subject to business, credit, financial and other risks, which may be unrelated to the operations of Applebee's or IHOP restaurants. These unrelated risks could materially and adversely affect a franchisee and its ability to make its franchise payments in full or on a timely basis. Any such decrease in franchise payments may have a material adverse effect on us. As a result, franchisees may apply for relief under bankruptcy and other laws relating to creditors' rights in the United States and other jurisdictions where their restaurants may be located. In addition, franchisees may be subject to involuntary application of such bankruptcy and other laws. The bankruptcy of a franchisee could adversely affect our ability to collect payments due under the franchise agreement of such franchisee and to protect our rights under, and otherwise realize the value of, such franchise agreement. This may occur as a result of, among other things, application of the automatic stay, delays and uncertainty in the bankruptcy process and the potential rejection of such franchise agreement. The number and quality of franchisees is subject to change over time, which may negatively affect our business. Our Applebee's business is highly concentrated in a limited number of franchisees. We cannot guarantee the retention of any, including the top performing, franchisees in the future, or that we will maintain the ability to attract, retain, and motivate sufficient numbers of franchisees of the same caliber. The quality of existing franchisee operations may be diminished by factors beyond our control, including franchisees' failure or inability to hire or retain qualified managers and other personnel. Training of managers and other personnel may be inadequate. These and other such negative factors could reduce the franchisee's restaurant revenues, impact payments under the franchise agreements and could have a material adverse effect on us. These negative factors will be magnified by the limited number of existing franchisees. The inability of franchisees to fund capital expenditures may adversely impact future growth. Our business strategy includes revitalizing Applebee's store locations through a new remodel program and other operational changes. The success of that business strategy will depend to a significant extent on the ability of the franchisees to fund the necessary capital expenditures to aid the repositioning and 22 re-energizing of the brand. Labor and material costs expended will vary by geographical location and are subject to general price increases. To the extent the franchisees are not able to fund the necessary capital expenditures, our business strategy may take longer to implement and may not be as successful as we expect, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An insolvency proceeding involving a franchisee could prevent the collection of payments or the exercise of rights under the related franchise agreement. An insolvency proceeding involving a franchisee could prevent us from collecting payments or exercising any of our other rights under the related franchise agreement. In particular, the protection of the statutory automatic stay that arises by operation of Section 362 of the United States Bankruptcy Code upon the commencement of a bankruptcy proceeding against a franchisee would prohibit us from terminating a franchise agreement previously entered into with a franchisee. Furthermore, a franchisee that is subject to bankruptcy proceedings may reject the franchise agreement in which case we would be limited to a general unsecured claim against the franchisee's bankruptcy estate on account of breach-of-contract damages arising from the rejection. Payments previously made to us by a franchisee that is subject to a bankruptcy proceeding may also be recoverable on behalf of the franchisee as a preferential transfer under the United States Bankruptcy Code. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property Third party claims with respect to intellectual property assets, if decided against us, may result in competing uses or require adoption of new, non-infringing intellectual property, which may in turn adversely affect sales and revenues. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us, or claims that our rights in our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property assets are invalid or unenforceable. Any such claims could have a material adverse effect on us or our franchisees if such claims were to be decided against us. If our rights in any intellectual property assets were invalidated or deemed unenforceable, it would permit competing uses of such assets which, in turn, could lead to a decline in restaurant revenues and sales of other branded products and services (if any). If the intellectual property assets became subject to third party infringement, misappropriation or other claims, and such claims were decided against us, then we could be required to develop or adopt non-infringing intellectual property or acquire a license to the intellectual property that is the subject of the asserted claim. There could be significant expenses associated with the defense of any infringement, misappropriation, or other third party claims. If franchisees and other sublicensees do not observe the required quality and trademark usage standards, our brands may suffer reputational damage, which could in turn adversely affect our business. We sublicense our intellectual property assets to our franchisees and to product suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, advertisers and other third parties. The franchise agreements and other sublicense agreements require that each franchisee or other sublicensee use the intellectual property assets in accordance with established or approved quality control guidelines. However, there can be no assurance that the franchisees or other sublicensees will use the intellectual property assets in accordance with such guidelines. Franchisee and sublicensee noncompliance with the terms and conditions of the governing franchise agreement or other sublicense agreement may reduce the overall goodwill of our brands, whether through failing to meet health and safety standards or to maintain quality control or product consistency, or through participating in improper or objectionable business practices. Franchisees and other sublicensees may refer to our brand improperly in writings or conversation, resulting in the weakening of the distinctiveness of our brands. There can be no assurance that the franchisees or other sublicensees will not take actions that could have a material adverse effect on the reputation of the Applebee's or IHOP brands. Any such actions could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our business and revenues. In addition, even if the sublicensee product suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, or advertisers observe and maintain the quality and integrity of the intellectual property assets in accordance with the 23 relevant sublicense agreement, any product manufactured by such suppliers may be subject to regulatory sanctions and other actions by third parties which can, in turn, negatively impact the perceived quality of our restaurants and the overall goodwill of our brands, regardless of the nature and type of product involved. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, by virtue of, among other things, reducing the public's acceptance of Applebee's or IHOP restaurants, thereby reducing restaurant revenues and corresponding franchise payments to us. Risks Related to the Applebee's Acquisition Our business strategy may not achieve the anticipated results. We expect to apply a new business strategy to the Applebee's business that includes, among other things, (i) the sale of most of the Company-owned real property in sale/leaseback transactions, (ii) the refranchising of more than 90% of the Company-owned restaurants, (iii) specific changes in the manner in which our business is managed and serviced, such as the establishment of one or more purchasing cooperatives, and the procurement of products and services from such purchasing cooperatives, and (iv) more generally, an improvement to the overall performance of the Applebee's business by applying many of the same strategies we previously applied to the IHOP restaurant business. However, the Applebee's business is different in many respects from the IHOP business. In particular, the Applebee's restaurants are part of the casual dining segment of the restaurant industry whereas the IHOP restaurants are part of the family dining segment, and the Applebee's business is larger and distributed differently across the United States and appeals to a different segment of the consumer market. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the business strategy we apply to the Applebee's business will be suitable or will achieve similar results to the application of such business strategy to the IHOP system. In particular, the refranchising of Company-owned restaurants may not improve the performance of such restaurants and may not reduce the capital expenditures to the extent we anticipate or result in the other intended benefits of the strategy. The conversion of a Company-owned restaurant to a franchised restaurant will reduce the total monthly revenue received by us from the restaurant because we receive all of the revenues generated by a Company-owned restaurant but receive only the franchise payments generated by franchised restaurants. However, we also expect the conversion of a Company-owned restaurant to a franchised restaurant to reduce or eliminate the operating costs we incur in connection with the restaurant because the operating costs will be the responsibility of the franchisee that owns and operates the restaurant. The actual benefit from the refranchising of the restaurants is highly uncertain and may be less than anticipated and may not be sufficient to offset the loss of revenues from the conversion of the Company-owned restaurants. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to sell most of the Company-owned real property or refranchise more than 90% of the Company-owned restaurants on desirable terms or within the anticipated time frame. The anticipated proceeds from the sale/leaseback transactions are based on current market values, capitalization ratios and a number of other assumptions. If the market valuations, capitalization ratios or such other assumptions prove to be incorrect, the actual proceeds received from the sale/leaseback transactions may be less than anticipated. Similarly, the anticipated proceeds from the refranchising of the Company-owned restaurants are based on current market values, recent comparable transaction valuations, and a number of other assumptions. The refranchising transactions are not expected to be completed for 24 to 36 months following the November 29, 2007 closing date. If the market rents, comparable transaction valuations or other assumptions prove to be incorrect, the actual proceeds from the refranchising of the Company-owned restaurants may be less than anticipated. In addition, adverse economic, weather or other conditions existing in the states in which Company-owned real property is located may adversely affect our ability to execute the sale/leaseback transactions or the refranchising transactions or to achieve the anticipated returns from such transactions. Market conditions may have changed at the time the refranchising transactions occur. Finally, the operational improvements initiatives or purchasing initiatives may not be successful or 24 achieve the desired results. In particular, there can be no assurance that the existing franchisees or prospective new franchisees will respond favorably to such initiatives. The significant costs that we incur in connection with the acquisition may not be offset by cost-savings in the future. We have incurred substantial costs associated with the Applebee's acquisition. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of attorneys, accountants and our financial advisors. In addition, substantial unanticipated costs may be incurred in connection with the integration of the business of Applebee's with our existing business. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset these costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition as a result of risks associated with integrating the business of Applebee's with our existing business. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Applebee's acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate certain aspects of the business of Applebee's with our existing business. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. This process may disrupt our business, and may not result in the full benefits we expect. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: •unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; •retaining key employees; •consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; •the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns; and •coordinating geographically separate organizations. If we fail to improve the operations of Applebee's, we may be unable to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the Applebee's acquisition. We intend to effect marketing and operational improvements with a view to improving Applebee's system performance. We may experience delays or difficulties in effecting these improvements. If we are unable to improve Applebee's system performance, we may be unable to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the Applebee's acquisition. We incurred substantial indebtedness to finance the Applebee's acquisition which could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding long-term debt of $2.3 billion, almost all of which was incurred to finance the acquisition. In addition, we may incur additional debt to the extent permitted under the terms of our debt covenants. Our substantial indebtedness and the fact that a large portion of our cash flow from operations must be used to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness have important consequences to our business and our shareholders, including: •reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; •increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; •creating competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with less indebtedness; and •limiting our ability to apply proceeds from a securities offering or asset sale to purposes other than the repayment of debt. In addition, our debt covenants limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends and engage in other transactions. Our failure to comply with these 25 covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, if currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements are not realized on schedule, in the amounts anticipated or at all, or if future borrowings are not available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, cease payments of dividends, delay capital expenditures or seek additional equity. If we are unable to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or to effect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all, our business may be harmed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 26 