Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Food Service Industry. Food service businesses may be affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic and political conditions, demographic trends, and the impact on consumer eating habits of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health. The performance of individual restaurants may be adversely affected by factors such as traffic patterns, demographics and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. 10 Multi-unit food service businesses such as ours can also be materially and adversely affected by widespread negative publicity of any type, but particularly regarding food quality, illness, obesity, injury or other health concerns with respect to certain foods. All restaurants are operated in accordance with uniform operating standards and specifications relating to the quality and preparation of menu items, maintenance, repair and cleanliness of premises. Nevertheless, the risk of food-borne illness cannot be completely eliminated. Any outbreak of such illness attributed to our restaurants or within the food service industry or any widespread negative publicity regarding our brands or the restaurant industry in general could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh produce and groceries subjects food service businesses, such as ours, to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply, caused by adverse weather or other conditions, could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. In addition, unfavorable trends or developments concerning factors such as inflation, increased cost of food, labor, fuel, utilities, technology, insurance and employee benefits (including increases in hourly wage, and workers’ compensation and other insurance premiums), increases in the number and locations of competing restaurants, regional weather conditions and the availability of experienced management and hourly employees, may also adversely affect the food service industry in general. Changes in economic conditions affecting our customers could reduce traffic in some or all of our restaurants or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our continued success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing conditions. Risks Associated with the Implementation of the Company’s Strategic Growth Plan. The Company relies on franchisees to develop IHOP restaurants. Development involves substantial risks, including the risk of (a) the availability of suitable locations and terms of the sites designated for development, (b) the ability of franchise developers to fulfill their commitments to build new IHOP restaurants in the numbers and time frames covered by their development agreements, (c) the availability of financing to franchisees at acceptable rates and terms, (d) delays in completion of construction, (e) developed properties not achieving desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened, (f) competition for suitable development sites, (g) changes in governmental rules, regulations, and interpretations (including interpretations of the requirements of the American with Disabilities Act (ADA), and (h) general economic and business conditions. Although we intend to manage our future restaurant development to reduce such risks, we cannot assure that present or future development will perform in accordance with our expectations. We cannot assure that the development and construction of the facilities will be completed, or that any such development will be completed in a timely manner. Our inability to expand in accordance with our plans or manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Entering New Markets. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully expand or acquire critical market presence for our brands in new geographic markets, as we may encounter well-established competitors with substantially greater financial resources. Our franchisees may be unable to find attractive locations, acquire name recognition, successfully market our products and attract new customers. Competitive circumstances and consumer characteristics in new market segments and new geographic markets may differ substantially from those in the market segments and geographic markets in which we have substantial experience. We cannot assure that our franchisees will be able to profitably operate new franchised restaurants in new geographic markets. Management decisions to curtail or cease investment in certain locations or markets may result in impairment charges. Competition. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location, personnel and the type and quality of food. Each of our restaurants competes directly and indirectly with a 11 large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as with locally-owned quick service restaurants, fast-casual restaurants, sandwich shops and similar types of businesses. The trend toward convergence in grocery, deli, and restaurant services may increase the number of our competitors. Such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our competitors have introduced a variety of new products and engaged in substantial price discounting in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. We plan to continue our product promotion schedule supported by national and local advertising, as well continuing to strengthen our core menu. However, there can be no assurance of the success of our new products, initiatives or our overall strategies or that competitive product offerings, pricing and promotions will not have an adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Advertising. We plan to continue our advertising campaign “Come hungry. Leave happy.” which we believe resonates positively with our customers, as well as continue to shift advertising expenditures from local market spending to coordinated national spending with the support of our franchisees. Should our competitors increase spending on advertising and promotion, should the cost of television or radio advertising increase, or our advertising funds decrease for any reason, including implementation of reduced spending strategies, or should our advertising and promotion be less effective than that of our competitors, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Taxes. Our income tax provision is based on estimates of federal and state tax liabilities and includes effective state and local income tax rates, allowable tax credits for items such as FICA taxes paid on reported tip income and estimates related to depreciation expenses allowable for tax purposes. Thus, our income tax provision may vary quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year based on these estimates. We usually file our income tax returns a number of months after our fiscal year-end. All tax returns are subject to audit by federal and state governments, usually years after the returns are filed, and could be subject to differing interpretation of the tax laws. The ultimate outcome of these audits could have an adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our tax contingency reserves result from estimates of potential liabilities resulting from differences between actual and audited results. Changes in the tax contingency reserve result from resolution of audits of prior year filings, the expiration of the statute of limitations, changes in tax laws and current year estimates for asserted and unasserted items. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law, both legislated and concluded through the various jurisdictions’ tax court systems. Significant changes in our estimates could adversely affect our reported results. Risks Related to Franchise Operations. The opening and success of franchised restaurants depends on various factors, including the demand for our franchises and the selection of appropriate franchisee candidates, the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, permitting and regulatory compliance, the ability to meet construction schedules, the availability of financing and other capabilities of our franchisees and developers. We cannot assure that developers planning the opening of franchised restaurants will have the business abilities or sufficient access to financial resources necessary to open the restaurants required by their agreements. We cannot assure that franchisees will successfully participate in our strategic initiatives or operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our concept and standards. In addition, certain federal and state laws govern our relationships with our franchisees. See “Risks Related to Government Regulations” below. Risks Related to Government Regulations. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. We and our franchisees are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, sanitation and safety standards, and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working 12 conditions and citizenship requirements. The ability to obtain or maintain such licenses or publicity resulting from actual or alleged violations of such laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also subject to federal regulation and certain state laws which govern the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements, including limitations on non-competition provisions and on provisions concerning the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some states require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in that state. The failure to obtain or retain licenses or approvals to sell franchises could adversely affect us and our franchisees. Changes in, and the cost of compliance with, government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Risks Related to the Failure of Internal Controls. The Company maintains a documented system of internal controls which is reviewed and monitored by the Audit Committee and tested by the Company’s full time Internal Audit Department to meet the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 standards. The Internal Audit Department reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The Company believes it has a well-designed system to maintain adequate internal controls on the business. However, there can be no assurance that there will not be any control deficiencies in the future. Should we become aware of any significant control deficiencies, the Audit Committee will require prompt remediation. We have devoted significant resources to document, test, monitor and improve our internal controls and will continue to do so; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our controls are adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing fraud. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 13 