Item 1A. Risk Factors. I-16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. I-21 Item 2. Properties. I-21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. I-21 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. I-21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. II-1 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. II-4 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. II-6 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. II-43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. II-44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. II-101 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. II-101 Item 9B. Other Information. II-101 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. III-1 Item 11. Executive Compensation. III-1 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. III-1 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. III-2 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. III-2 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. IV-1 i Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). This report includes certain forward-looking information that is based on current expectations and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. For details on forward-looking information, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Part II, Item 7, of this report. Aflac Incorporated qualifies as a large accelerated filer within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 12b-2. Our Internet address is aflac.com. The information on the Company’s Web site is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge on our Web site, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments thereto as soon as reasonably practicable after those forms have been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). General Description Aflac Incorporated (the Parent Company) was incorporated in 1973 under the laws of the state of Georgia. Aflac Incorporated is a general business holding company and acts as a management company, overseeing the operations of its subsidiaries by providing management services and making capital available. Its principal business is supplemental health and life insurance, which is marketed and administered through its subsidiary, American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus (Aflac), which operates in the United States (Aflac U.S.) and as a branch in Japan (Aflac Japan). Most of Aflac’s policies are individually underwritten and marketed through independent agents. Our insurance operations in the United States and our branch in Japan service the two markets for our insurance business. We believe Aflac is the world’s leading underwriter of individually issued policies marketed at worksites. We continue to diversify our product offerings in both Japan and the United States. Aflac Japan sells supplemental insurance products, including cancer life plans, general medical indemnity plans, medical/sickness riders, care plans, living benefit life plans, ordinary life insurance plans and annuities. Aflac U.S. sells supplemental insurance products, including accident/disability plans, cancer expense plans, short-term disability plans, sickness and hospital indemnity plans, hospital intensive care plans, fixed-benefit dental plans, vision care plans, long-term care plans, and life insurance products. We are authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, several U.S. territories and Japan. Aflac Japan accounted for 71% of the Company’s total revenues in 2007, 72% in 2006 and 74% in 2005. The percentage of total assets attributable to Aflac Japan was 82% at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. For additional information, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. Results of Operations For information on our results of operations and financial information by segment, see MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. I-1 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Translation For information regarding the effect of currency fluctuations on our business, see the Foreign Currency Translation and Currency Risk sections of MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. Insurance Premiums The growth of earned premiums is directly affected by the change in premiums in force and by the change in weighted-average yen/dollar exchange rates. Consolidated earned premiums were $13.0 billion in 2007, $12.3 billion in 2006, and $12.0 billion in 2005. For additional information on the composition of earned premiums by segment, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac’s insurance business for the years ended December 31. (In millions) 2007 2006 2005 Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year $ 13,195 $ 12,415 $ 12,604 New sales, including conversions 2,532 2,433 2,426 Change in unprocessed new sales (78 ) (56 ) (67 ) Premiums lapsed and surrendered (1,715 ) (1,589 ) (1,483 ) Other 30 79 58 Foreign currency translation adjustment 406 (87 ) (1,123 ) Annualized premiums in force, end of year $ 14,370 $ 13,195 $ 12,415 Insurance - Japan We translate Aflac Japan’s annualized premiums in force into dollars at the respective end-of-period exchange rates. Changes in annualized premiums in force are translated at weighted-average exchange rates. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac Japan for the years ended December 31. In Dollars In Yen (In millions of dollars and billions of yen) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year $ 9,094 $ 8,705 $ 9,230 1,083 1,028 962 New sales, including conversions 974 1,010 1,167 115 117 129 Change in unprocessed new sales (78 ) (56 ) (67 ) (9 ) (6 ) (8 ) Premiums lapsed and surrendered (472 ) (463 ) (470 ) (56 ) (54 ) (52 ) Other (64 ) (15 ) (32 ) (7 ) (2 ) (3 ) Foreign currency translation adjustment 406 (87 ) (1,123 ) - - - Annualized premiums in force, end of year $ 9,860 $ 9,094 $ 8,705 1,126 1,083 1,028 For further information regarding Aflac Japan’s financial results, sales and the Japanese economy, see the Aflac Japan section of MD&A in this report. I-2 Table of Contents Insurance - U.S. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac U.S. for the years ended December 31. (In millions) 2007 2006 2005 Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year $ 4,101 $ 3,711 $ 3,374 New sales, including conversions 1,558 1,423 1,259 Premiums lapsed (1,243 ) (1,127 ) (1,012 ) Other 94 94 90 Annualized premiums in force, end of year $ 4,510 $ 4,101 $ 3,711 For further information regarding Aflac’s U.S. financial results and sales, see the Aflac U.S. section of MD&A in this report. Insurance Products - Japan Aflac Japan’s insurance products are designed to help consumers pay for medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed under Japan’s national health insurance system. Changes in Japan’s economy and an aging population have put increasing pressure on Japan’s national health care system. As a result, more costs are being shifted to Japanese consumers, who in turn have become increasingly interested in insurance products that help them manage those costs. Aflac Japan has responded to this consumer need by enhancing existing products and developing new products. Aflac Japan’s stand-alone medical product, EVER, offers a basic level of hospitalization coverage with an affordable premium. Since its initial introduction in 2002, we have expanded our suite of EVER product offerings. We added to our medical product portfolio in February 2007 with EVER Paid Up, a product that allows policyholders to choose to pay higher premium payments on the front end so they will be payment-free at either age 60 or 65. In August 2007, we introduced Gentle EVER, which helps consumers who may have a health condition that would exclude them from purchasing the other EVER products. We believe that there is an attractive market for this type of medical product in Japan. We also believe Gentle EVER will be an effective means for us to extend our reach to new consumers and further segment the medical market. We continue to believe that the entire medical category will remain an important part of our product portfolio in Japan. The cancer life insurance plans we offer in Japan provide a lump-sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of internal cancer and a fixed daily benefit for hospitalization and outpatient services related to cancer as well as surgical, convalescent and terminal care benefits. These plans differ from Aflac U.S. cancer plans in that the Japanese policies may also provide death benefits and cash surrender values. In September 2007, we introduced a new product called Cancer Forte. This is the first major revision we have made to our cancer product since we introduced 21st Century Cancer in 2001. Responding to requests for enhanced outpatient coverage for cancer treatment, Cancer Forte pays outpatient benefits for 60 days, compared with 30 days for our previous plans. It also incorporates two new features. First, if a policyholder is diagnosed with cancer for the first time, we pay that policyholder an annuity from the second year through the fifth year after diagnosis. This is in addition to the traditional upfront first-occurrence benefit. The second new benefit is called “Premier Support,” where Aflac arranges for a third party to provide policyholders with counseling and doctor referral services upon their cancer diagnosis. In 2006, we designed a new cancer product for distribution by I-3 Table of Contents Dai-ichi Life that is customized for their market. In addition, our Rider MAX product provides accident and medical/sickness benefits as a rider to our cancer life policy. The life products that we offer in Japan provide death benefits and cash surrender values. These products are available as stand-alone policies and riders. Some plans have features that allow policyholders to convert a portion of their life insurance to medical, nursing care, or fixed annuity benefits at a predetermined age. We also offer traditional fixed-income annuities and care policies. For additional information on Aflac Japan’s products and composition of sales, see the Aflac Japan section of MD&A in this report. Insurance Products - U.S. We design our U.S. insurance products to provide supplemental coverage for people who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage. Our policies are portable and pay regardless of other insurance. Benefits are paid in cash directly to policyholders, therefore they have the opportunity to use this cash to cover expenses of their choosing. Our health insurance plans are guaranteed-renewable for the lifetime of the policyholder (to age 70 for short-term disability policies). We cannot cancel guaranteed-renewable coverage, but we can increase premium rates on existing policies on a uniform, nondiscriminatory basis by class of policy in response to adverse experience. Any premium rate increases are subject to state regulatory approval. We have had minimal rate increase activity in the last five years. Aflac U.S. offers an accident and disability policy to protect against losses resulting from accidents. The accident portion of the policy includes lump-sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific injuries as well as fixed benefits for hospital confinement. Optional disability riders are also available. Short-term disability policies provide disability benefits with a variety of elimination and benefit period options. The longest such benefit period offered is two years. Our U.S. cancer plans are designed to provide insurance benefits for medical and nonmedical costs that are not covered by major medical insurance. Benefits include a first-occurrence benefit that pays an initial amount when internal cancer is first diagnosed; a fixed amount for each day an insured is hospitalized for cancer treatment; fixed amounts for radiation, chemotherapy and surgery; and a wellness benefit applicable toward certain diagnostic tests. In August 2007, we introduced our newest cancer product, Maximum DifferenceSM. This new cancer indemnity plan incorporates coverage for medical advances in cancer prevention, diagnosis, treatment and the many new ways cancer patients may now receive their care. Maximum Difference allows customization of coverage to fit varying needs and budgets. Our hospital indemnity products provide fixed daily benefits for hospitalization due to accident or sickness. In 2005, we introduced a new version of our hospital indemnity plan. Indemnity benefits for inpatient and outpatient surgeries, as well as various other diagnostic expenses, are also available. Our sickness indemnity plan provides a fixed daily benefit for hospitalization due to sickness and fixed amounts for physician services for accident or sickness. Aflac U.S. offers a specified health event policy that gives consumers three benefit and premium levels from which they may select. One of the levels combines the specified health event policy with I-4 Table of Contents our intensive care plan. By leveraging administrative efficiencies, consumers can purchase the combined coverage for less than purchasing the policies separately. Aflac U.S. offers term and whole life policies sold through payroll deduction at the worksite and various term and whole life policies on a direct basis. In early 2006, we introduced a revised life insurance portfolio called the Life Protector Series. This product line offers term policies with varying duration options and a new whole life policy with additional benefits, including an increased face value option. These revisions greatly enhanced the product category and contributed to its success in the marketplace. We also offer a series of fixed-benefit dental policies, providing various levels of benefits for dental procedures, including checkups and cleanings. Plan features include a renewal guarantee, no deductible and no network restrictions. Aflac U.S. offers Vision NowSM, which provides benefits for serious eye health conditions and loss of sight. Vision Now includes coverage for corrective eye materials and exam benefits. We also offer other health insurance products including tax qualified and non-qualified long-term care plans. For additional information on Aflac’s U.S. products and composition of sales, see the Aflac U.S. section of MD&A in this report. Distribution - Japan We sell our products primarily through two distribution channels: independent corporate/individual agencies and affiliated corporate agencies. The independent corporate agencies and individual agencies that sell our products give us better access to workers at the vast number of small businesses in Japan. Agents’ activities are primarily focused on insurance sales, with customer service support provided by the Aflac Contact Center. Independent corporate agencies and individual agencies contributed 56% of total new annualized premium sales in 2007, 58% in 2006 and 57% in 2005. Affiliated corporate agencies are formed when companies establish subsidiary businesses to sell our insurance products to their employees, suppliers and customers. These agencies help us reach employees at large worksites, including 89% of the companies listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Affiliated corporate agencies contributed 36% of total new annualized premium sales in 2007, compared with 33% in 2006 and 35% in 2005. During 2007, we recruited approximately 3,200 new sales agencies. As of December 31, 2007, Aflac Japan was represented by more than 18,400 sales agencies with more than 100,800 licensed sales associates. We believe that new agencies will continue to be attracted to Aflac Japan’s high commissions, superior products, customer service and strong brand image. To improve the overall effectiveness of our sales force, we continued to employ New Associates Basic Training, which we launched in November 2006. This six-month training curriculum combines classroom and field training to improve agents’ face-to-face consultation skills, with particular emphasis on the direct market and small- to medium-sized companies. Our training is also continuing to steer affiliated agencies to replace passive, or “pull” sales tactics, like direct mailings and newspaper ads, with active, or “push” techniques that involve more follow-up calls and face-to-face sales consultations. By the end of 2007, we had trained approximately 3,300 newly recruited sales associates through this new training program. I-5 Table of Contents Aflac Service Shops encourage face-to-face sales techniques through convenient locations and knowledgeable sales associates. By the end of 2007, we had 604 Aflac Service Shops throughout Japan. To continue to enhance the level of service we offer, we began an “e-learning” system that is combined with a series of internal seminars aimed at providing a one-year training program to service shops. In addition to individual agencies and independent corporate agencies, affiliated corporate agencies have also seen the benefits and opened service shops. We continued to reach consumers through our strategic marketing alliance with Dai-ichi Mutual Life Insurance Company (Dai-ichi Life). We believe our alliance has been one of the most successful partnerships in the insurance industry. In 2007, Dai-ichi Life sold approximately 244,000 of our market-leading cancer life policies, compared with 269,700 policies in 2006 and 277,700 policies in 2005, enabling Dai-ichi Life to retain its distinction as the number two seller of cancer insurance behind only Aflac. We also spent 2007 preparing for new distribution opportunities, including sales through banks. Although we have sold our products to employees of banks since our entry into Japan in 1974, December 2007 marked the first time it was permissible for banks to sell third sector insurance products to their customers. We have been preparing for this new sales channel since 2004 and we believe we are well-positioned in the banking sector. By the end of January 2008, we had agreements with 41 banks to market Aflac’s products through more than 3,300 branches nationwide. Another distribution opportunity for Aflac was announced in November 2007 when Japan Post Network Co. selected Aflac Japan as the provider of cancer insurance to be sold through Japan’s vast post office network. Japan Post Network Co. operates the 24,000 post offices located throughout Japan, providing a significant opportunity for us to reach new consumers. For additional information on Aflac Japan’s distribution, see the Aflac Japan section of MD&A in this report. Distribution - U.S. Our U.S. sales force comprises sales associates who are independent contractors licensed to sell accident and health insurance. Many are also licensed to sell life insurance. Sales associates are paid commissions based on first-year and renewal premiums from their sales of insurance products. In addition to receiving commissions on personal production, district, regional and state sales coordinators may also receive override commissions and incentive bonuses. Most associates’ efforts are principally focused on selling supplemental insurance at the worksite. Administrative personnel in Georgia, New York, and Nebraska handle policyholder service functions, including issuance of policies, premium collection, payment notices and claims. We concentrate on marketing our products at the worksite. This method offers policies to individuals through employment, trade and other associations. This manner of marketing is distinct from the group insurance sales approach in that our policies are individually underwritten and premiums are generally paid by the employee. Additionally, Aflac policies are portable, meaning that individuals may retain their full insurance coverage upon separation from employment or such affiliation, generally at the same premium. We collect a major portion of premiums on such sales through payroll deduction or other forms of centralized billing. Worksite marketing enables a sales I-6 Table of Contents associate to reach a greater number of prospective policyholders and lowers distribution costs, compared with individually marketed business. During the past several years, we have enhanced and increased the size of our distribution system. We recruited more than 24,200 new sales associates in 2007, which resulted in a 4.2% increase in licensed agents at the end of the year, compared with 2006. However, increasing our sales force means more than just recruiting people. Over the last two years, we have shifted our focus to growing the number of average weekly producers, which measures high-quality, consistent, capable producers who make solid, consistent contributions to sales. On a weekly basis, the average number of U.S. associates actively producing business rose 6.0% to more than 10,900 in 2007. For new sales associates, we continued to implement the New Associate Training Cycle, which combines classroom instruction and online learning through Aflac University® with field training. The New Associate Training Cycle also includes LEASE training (Larger Earnings by Acquiring Smaller Employers), which helps new sales associates jumpstart their sales careers with an easily transferable guide for approaching smaller businesses. In addition to training sales associates, we extended our training of both new and veteran sales force management. Sales associates who exhibit leadership potential are invited to participate in our national Coordinator in Training (CIT) program. The CIT program concentrates on developing potential leaders’ skills so they have a better chance to succeed as a district sales coordinator, the first level of Aflac’s sales force management. For district and regional sales coordinators, we refined and expanded the use of coordinator accreditation programs. We also began developing an accreditation curriculum that will be rolled out in 2008 for state sales coordinators, our highest level of sales management. Like the accreditation for regional sales coordinators, this new program will emphasize the management of managers. We believe our efforts to increase the size and capability of our field force will translate into a higher proportion of successful producing sales associates in the future. For additional information on Aflac’s U.S. distribution, see the Aflac U.S. section of MD&A in this report. Competition - Japan In 1974, Aflac was granted an operating license to sell life insurance in Japan, making Aflac the second non-Japanese life insurance company to gain direct access to the Japanese insurance market. Through 1981, we faced limited competition for cancer life insurance policy sales. However, Japan has experienced two periods of deregulation since we entered the market. The first came in the early 1980s, when nine mid-sized insurers, including domestic and foreign, were allowed to sell cancer insurance products for the first time. In 2001, all life and non-life insurers were allowed to sell stand-alone cancer and medical insurance products as well as other stand-alone health insurance products. As a result, the number of insurance companies offering stand-alone cancer and medical insurance has more than doubled since the market was deregulated in 2001. However, based on our growth of annualized premiums in force and agencies, we do not believe that our market-leading position has been significantly impacted by increased competition. Furthermore, we believe the continued development and maintenance of operating efficiencies will allow us to offer affordable products that appeal to consumers. I-7 Table of Contents Aflac has had substantial success selling cancer life policies in Japan, with 14 million cancer life policies in force as of December 31, 2007. We believe we will remain a leading provider of cancer life insurance coverage in Japan, principally due to our experience in the market, low-cost operations, unique marketing system (see Distribution - Japan above) and product expertise. We have also experienced substantial success selling medical insurance in Japan. While other companies have recognized the opportunities that we have seen in the medical insurance market and offered new products, we believe our products stand out as a tremendous value to consumers. Aflac Japan continued to be the number one seller of stand-alone medical insurance in the life insurance industry in terms of policy sales throughout the year. Competition - U.S. Approximately 1,000 life insurance companies are licensed in the United States. We compete against several insurers on a national basis plus other insurers regionally. We believe our policies and premium rates, as well as the commissions paid to our sales associates, are competitive with those offered by other companies providing similar types of insurance. However, we believe our U.S. business is distinct from our competitors because of our product focus, distribution system, and brand awareness. For many of the other companies that sell supplemental insurance, it represents a secondary business. For us, it is our primary business. We also believe that our growing distribution system of independent sales associates expands our business opportunities, while our advertising campaigns have increased our name awareness and consumer understanding of our brand message. Private insurers and voluntary and cooperative plans, such as Blue Cross and Blue Shield, provide insurance for hospitalization and medical expenses. Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis. The federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical treatment through various programs. Such major medical insurance generally covers a substantial amount of the medical expenses incurred by an insured as a result of accident and disability, cancer or other major illnesses. Aflac’s policies are designed to provide coverage that supplements major medical insurance and may also be used to defray nonmedical expenses. Thus, we do not compete directly with major medical insurers. However, the scope of major medical coverage offered by other insurers does represent a potential limitation on the market for our products. Accordingly, expansion of coverage by other insurers or governmental programs could adversely affect our business opportunities. Conversely, any reduction of coverage, or increased deductibles and copayments, by other insurers or governmental programs could favorably affect our business opportunities. Investments and Investment Results Net investment income was $2.3 billion in 2007, $2.2 billion in 2006 and $2.1 billion in 2005. Growth of net investment income during the last three years has been impacted by the low level of investment yields for new money in both Japan and the United States. In particular, Japan’s life insurance industry has contended with low investment yields for a number of years. Although the Bank of Japan ended its zero-interest-rate policy in 2006, market yields on long-duration fixed maturity securities which we primarily purchase in Japan did not increase measurably during the year. I-8 Table of Contents Investments - Japan The following table presents the composition of total investments, at amortized cost, and cash for Aflac Japan ($47.8 billion in 2007 and $42.5 billion in 2006) as of December 31. Composition of Securities by Sector 2007 2006 Debt securities, at amortized cost: Banks/financial institutions 44.7 % 44.6 % Government and guaranteed 18.3 19.8 Municipalities .1 .1 Public utilities 8.4 8.0 Collateralized debt obligations .9 .3 Sovereign and supranational 8.3 8.8 Mortgage- and asset-backed securities 1.1 .8 Other corporate 17.4 16.7 Total debt securities 99.2 99.1 Equity securities and other .1 .1 Cash and cash equivalents .7 .8 Total investments and cash 100.0 % 100.0 % Yen-denominated debt securities accounted for 93% of Aflac Japan’s total debt securities at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. Funds available for investment include cash flows from operations, which include investment income, and funds generated from bond swaps, maturities and redemptions. Aflac Japan purchased debt security investments totaling approximately 699.1 billion yen in 2007 (approximately $6.0 billion), 687.9 billion yen in 2006 (approximately $5.9 billion), and 873.4 billion yen in 2005 (approximately $7.8 billion). Equity security purchases were immaterial during the three-year period ended December 31, 2007. The following table presents the composition of debt security purchases for the years ended December 31. Composition of Purchases by Sector 2007 2006 2005 Debt security purchases, at cost: Banks/financial institutions 35.3 % 36.3 % 46.8 % Government and guaranteed 24.4 23.6 43.9 Municipalities - .1 - Public utilities 8.6 9.2 2.3 Collateralized debt obligations 4.6 2.5 - Sovereign and supranational 3.0 8.9 .2 Mortgage- and asset-backed securities 2.2 3.5 .4 Other corporate 21.9 15.9 6.4 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % I-9 Table of Contents The distributions by credit rating of Aflac Japan’s purchases of debt securities for the years ended December 31, based on acquisition cost, were as follows: Composition of Purchases by Credit Rating 2007 2006 2005 AAA 18.0 % 9.7 % 1.7 % AA 48.5 53.7 50.1 A 29.6 33.4 43.6 BBB 3.9 3.2 4.6 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % The distributions of debt securities owned by Aflac Japan by credit rating were as follows: Composition by Credit Rating December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Cost Value Cost Value AAA 5.3 % 5.3 % 4.8 % 4.8 % AA 48.2 49.5 37.9 39.0 A 28.7 28.2 38.0 37.6 BBB 15.9 15.5 16.6 16.4 BB or lower 1.9 1.5 2.7 2.2 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % The increase in Aflac Japan’s holding of AAA and AA rated holdings compared with December 31, 2006, resulted from purchases and credit rating upgrades by rating agencies; the offset was a corresponding decrease in the A rated holdings. The decline in BB or lower rated securities resulted from credit rating upgrades. I-10 Table of Contents Investments - U.S. The following table presents the composition of total investments, at amortized cost, and cash for Aflac U.S. ($7.2 billion in 2007 and $7.1 billion in 2006) as of December 31. Composition of Securities by Sector 2007 2006 Debt securities, at amortized cost: Banks/financial institutions 39.6 % 44.0 % Government and guaranteed 3.9 4.8 Municipalities 1.1 .8 Public utilities 9.2 9.4 Collateralized debt obligations .9 .2 Sovereign and supranational 3.7 3.3 Mortgage- and asset-backed securities 3.9 3.2 Other corporate 35.4 29.6 Total debt securities 97.7 95.3 Cash and cash equivalents 2.3 4.7 Total investments and cash 100.0 % 100.0 % Funds available for investment include cash flows from operations, which include investment income, and funds generated from bond swaps, maturities and redemptions. Aflac U.S. purchased debt security investments totaling approximately $1.0 billion in 2007, and $1.2 billion in both 2006 and 2005. The following table presents the composition of debt security purchases for the years ended December 31. Composition of Purchases by Sector 2007 2006 2005 Debt security purchases, at cost: Banks/financial institutions 18.8 % 54.9 % 36.0 % Government and guaranteed 1.0 6.5 14.1 Municipalities 2.5 2.5 .1 Public utilities 3.1 4.6 3.9 Collateralized debt obligations 5.0 .8 - Sovereign and supranational 2.9 - 2.4 Mortgage- and asset-backed securities 12.8 5.4 9.9 Other corporate 53.9 25.3 33.6 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % The change in the allocation of purchases by sector from year to year is based on diversification objectives, relative value and availability of investment opportunities. I-11 Table of Contents The distributions by credit rating of Aflac’s U.S. purchases of debt securities for the years ended December 31, based on acquisition cost, were as follows: Composition of Purchases by Credit Rating 2007 2006 2005 AAA 20.5 % 15.1 % 33.8 % AA 18.7 26.1 17.4 A 33.2 42.9 37.4 BBB 27.6 15.9 11.4 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % The increase in purchases of BBB rated securities in 2007 was due to widening credit spreads during the year. As a result, in 2007 we purchased selected BBB rated securities that offered greater relative investment value. The distributions of debt securities owned by Aflac U.S. by credit rating were as follows: Composition by Credit Rating December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Cost Value Cost Value AAA 13.0 % 12.4 % 11.8 % 10.9 % AA 17.6 17.7 17.0 17.0 A 44.3 44.6 47.5 48.2 BBB 23.5 23.9 21.6 22.0 BB or lower 1.6 1.4 2.1 1.9 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % For additional information on the composition of our investment portfolios and investment results, see the Investments and Cash section in MD&A and Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. Regulation - Japan The financial and business affairs of Aflac Japan are subject to examination by Japan’s Financial Services Agency (FSA). Aflac Japan files annual reports and financial statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 fiscal year end, prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the FSA. Japanese regulatory basis earnings are determined using accounting principles that differ materially from U.S. GAAP. Under Japanese regulatory accounting practices, policy acquisition costs are charged off immediately; deferred income tax liabilities are recognized on a different basis; policy benefit and claim reserving methods and assumptions are different; the carrying value of securities transferred to held-to-maturity is different; policyholder protection corporation obligations are not accrued; and premium income is recognized on a cash basis. Reconciliations of the net assets of the Japan I-12 Table of Contents branch on a U.S. GAAP basis to net assets determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis as of December 31 were as follows: (In millions) 2007 2006 Aflac Japan net assets on GAAP basis $ 6,044 $ 5,740 Elimination of deferred policy acquisition costs (4,269 ) (3,857 ) Adjustment to income tax liabilities 1,993 1,746 Adjustment to policy liabilities (839 ) (239 ) Adjustment of unrealized gains and other adjustments to carrying value of debt securities (184 ) (532 ) Elimination of policyholder protection corporation liability 151 175 Reduction in premiums receivable (93 ) (91 ) Other, net (349 ) (331 ) Aflac Japan net assets on Japanese regulatory accounting basis $ 2,454 $ 2,611 The FSA maintains a solvency standard, which is used by Japanese regulators to monitor the financial strength of insurance companies. Aflac Japan’s solvency margin continues to significantly exceed regulatory minimums. A portion of Aflac Japan’s annual earnings, as determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis, may be repatriated each year to Aflac U.S. after complying with solvency margin provisions and satisfying various conditions imposed by Japan’s regulatory authorities for protecting policyholders. These repatriated profits represent a portion of Aflac Japan’s after-tax earnings reported to the FSA on a March 31 fiscal year basis. If needed, we may elect not to repatriate profits to Aflac U.S. or to repatriate a reduced amount to strengthen Aflac Japan’s solvency margin. In addition, the FSA may not allow profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to Aflac U.S. if they would cause Aflac Japan to lack sufficient financial strength for the protection of Japanese policyholders. We do not expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for profit repatriations. Nor do we expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for payments of allocated expenses to Aflac U.S. and management fees to the Parent Company. At the end of 2006, Aflac Japan, along with the entire life insurance industry, began a review of the last five years of paid claims to determine if those claims were paid fully and accurately. In April 2007, Aflac Japan reported the findings of its review to the FSA. In October 2007, the insurance industry updated its data for underpaid claims. The updated data for the industry included an increase in the number of cases and yen amount of underpayment compared to the data that was first reported in April, primarily a result of a type of underpayment where companies did not notify policyholders of their potential eligibility for additional benefit payments which the policyholders did not claim in their original filings. Our initial estimate for that type of underpayment was fairly accurate and the number of cases was very small. In the fourth quarter we reported 26,700 cases of delayed interest payments on cash surrender values, which on average was 75 yen per case (approximately $.66 per case using the December 31, 2007, period-end exchange rate). In total for the five-year period, we reported 1.9 billion yen (approximately $16.8 million using the December 31, 2007, exchange rate) of underpaid claims in April, and we revised the amount to 2.1 billion yen (approximately $18.4 million using the December 31, 2007 exchange rate) in October. We are using this review to identify process changes that will help ensure that payment errors such as these are not repeated. The financial impact of paying the claims that were in error was immaterial to our operations and has been provided for in our 2007 and 2006 financial statements as applicable. I-13 Table of Contents The Japanese insurance industry has a policyholder protection corporation that provides funds for the policyholders of insolvent insurers. For additional information regarding the policyholder protection fund, see the Policyholder Protection Corporation section of MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. In October 2005, legislation aimed at privatizing Japan’s postal system (Japan Post) was enacted into law. The privatization laws split Japan Post into four entities that began operating in October 2007. The four entities are Japan Post Service Co., Ltd.; Japan Post Network Co., Ltd.; Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd.; and Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. The entire privatization process is scheduled to be completed by October 2017. In addition to the normal FSA approval process, the law requires that new product offerings by the Japan Post financial entities must undergo a special review by Japan’s Postal Privatization Committee and approval by Japan’s Prime Minister and the Minister for Internal Affairs and Communications. In November 2007, Japan Post Network Co. selected Aflac Japan as its provider of cancer insurance and coordinator of administrative support for third sector products. Japan Post Network Co. operates the 24,000 post offices located throughout Japan. Japan Post has not yet established a specific time frame for sales to commence. Being selected as the administrative support coordinator for third sector products means that Aflac will work with Japan Post Network Co. on creating new infrastructure for not only Aflac’s product(s), but all third sector products, including such functions as administrative workflow, IT systems, and logistics for delivering sales materials. The infrastructure will deal with a wide range of issues such as acceptance of policy application and maintenance forms, payment of premiums, and providing Japan Post Network Co. with data on performance of every post office and employee, including new policies sold and policies in force. Our branch in Japan is also subject to regulation and supervision in the United States (see Regulation - U.S.). For additional information regarding Aflac Japan’s operations and regulations, see the Aflac Japan section of MD&A and Notes 2 and 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. Regulation - U.S. The Parent Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulations in the United States as an insurance holding company system. Such regulations generally provide that transactions between companies within the holding company system must be fair and equitable. In addition, transfers of assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from insurance subsidiaries, and material transactions between companies within the system are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, state regulatory authorities. Like all U.S. insurance companies, Aflac is subject to regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business. In general, the insurance laws of the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relating to, among other things: • granting and revoking licenses to transact business • regulating trade practices • licensing of agents • approval of policy forms and premium rates • standards of solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum loss ratio requirements • capital requirements I-14 Table of Contents • limitations on dividends to shareholders • the nature of and limitations on investments • deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders • filing of financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory insurance accounting practices prescribed or permitted by regulatory authorities • periodic examinations of the market conduct, financial, and other affairs of insurance companies Additionally, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) continually reviews regulatory matters and recommends changes and revisions for adoption by state legislators and insurance departments. The NAIC uses a risk-based capital formula relating to insurance risk, business risk, asset risk and interest rate risk to facilitate identification by insurance regulators of inadequately capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and mix of risk inherent in the insurer’s operations. The formulas for determining the amount of risk-based capital specify various weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of a company’s regulatory total adjusted capital to its authorized control level risk-based capital as defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. The levels are company action, regulatory action, authorized control, and mandatory control. Aflac’s NAIC risk-based capital ratio remains high and reflects a very strong capital and surplus position. For further information concerning Aflac U.S. operations, regulation and dividend restrictions, see the Aflac U.S. section of MD&A and Notes 2 and 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. Employees As of December 31, 2007, Aflac Japan had 3,704 employees and Aflac U.S. had 4,344 employees. We consider our employee relations to be excellent. Other Operations Our other operations include the Parent Company and a printing subsidiary. These operations had 310 employees as of December 31, 2007. We consider our relations with these employees to be excellent. For additional information on our other operations, see the Other Operations section of MD&A. I-15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk Factors We face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify, prioritize and appropriately manage our enterprise risk exposures. Readers should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Form 10-K. These risks and other factors may affect forward-looking statements, including those in this document or made by the Company elsewhere, such as in earnings release webcasts, investor conference presentations or press releases. The risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, there could be a material impact on the Company. We operate in an industry that is subject to ongoing changes. We operate in a competitive environment and in an industry that is subject to ongoing changes from market pressures brought about by customer demands, legislative reform, marketing practices and changes to health care and health insurance delivery. These factors require us to anticipate market trends and make changes to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors. We also face the potential of competition from existing or new companies that have not historically been in the supplemental health insurance industry. Failure to anticipate market trends and/or to differentiate our products and services can affect our ability to retain or grow profitable lines of business. Our concentration of business in Japan poses risks to our operations. Our operations in Japan accounted for 71%, 72%, and 74% of our total revenues for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, and 82% of our total assets at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. As a result, weakness in Japan’s economy could adversely affect our business. The weak economy in Japan that emerged in the early 1990s resulted in a challenging marketing environment for Aflac Japan, with declining available investment yields for new investments and decreased consumer confidence. Although the Japanese economy has been growing in recent years, the ability to sustain such expansion remains uncertain. Japanese currency translation risk could materially impact reported operating results. Due to the size of Aflac Japan, where our functional currency is the Japanese yen, fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. In periods when the yen weakens, translating yen into dollars causes fewer dollars to be reported. When the yen strengthens, translating yen into dollars causes more dollars to be reported. Aflac Japan’s premiums and most of its investment income are received in yen. Claims and expenses are paid in yen, and we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. These and other yen-denominated financial statement items are translated into dollars for financial reporting purposes. However, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. Except for a limited number of transactions, we do not I-16 Table of Contents actually convert yen into dollars. As a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue for Aflac and not an economic event to our Company or shareholders. General market conditions affect investments and investment income. We have substantial investment portfolios that support our policy liabilities. Low levels of interest rates on investments, such as those experienced in the United States and Japan during recent years, have negatively impacted the level of investment income earned by the Company. Slower investment income growth will occur if a low-interest-rate environment persists. Financial market conditions can also affect our realized and unrealized investment gains or losses. During periods of rising interest rates, the fair values of our investments will decline. Conversely, during periods of falling interest rates, the fair values of our investments will rise. However, should significant amounts of unrealized gains/losses occur because of changes in market yields, we would not expect to realize significant gains or losses due to our ability and intent to hold the securities to maturity or recovery of value. Availability of acceptable yen-denominated investments could adversely affect our profits. We attempt to match the duration of our assets with the duration of our liabilities. At December 31, 2007, the average duration of Aflac Japan’s policy liabilities was approximately 14 years and the average duration of its yen-denominated debt securities was approximately 13 years. When our debt securities mature, there is a risk that the proceeds will be reinvested at a yield below that of the interest required for the accretion of policy liabilities. If this occurs, Aflac Japan’s business would be adversely affected. Concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular sector of the economy may have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and, consequently, on our results of operations and financial position. Events or developments that have a negative impact on any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than diversified. If future policy benefits, claims or expenses exceed those anticipated in establishing premiums and reserves, our financial results would be adversely affected. We establish and carry, as a liability, reserves based on estimates of how much will be required to pay for future benefits and claims. We calculate these reserves using various assumptions and estimates, including premiums we will receive over the assumed life of the policy; the timing, frequency and severity of the events covered by the insurance policy; and the investment returns on the assets we purchase with a portion of our net cash flow from operations. These assumptions and estimates are inherently uncertain. Accordingly, we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits and claims or whether the assets supporting the policy liabilities will grow to the level we assume prior to payment of benefits or claims. If our actual experience is different from our assumptions or estimates, our reserves may prove inadequate. As a result, we would incur a charge to earnings in the period in which we determine such a shortfall exists. This estimation process is a critical accounting policy for the Company. I-17 Table of Contents Our operating subsidiaries provide cash flow to the Parent Company. Aflac Incorporated is a holding company and has no direct operations or no significant assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. There is no assurance that the earnings from, or other available assets of, our operating subsidiaries will be sufficient to make distributions to us to enable us to operate. Extensive regulation can impact profitability and growth. Aflac’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to complex laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of governmental authorities, including state insurance regulators, the SEC, the NAIC, the FSA, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in Japan, the U.S. Department of Justice, state attorneys general, and the Internal Revenue Service, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal or regulatory issue may not result in compliance with another regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. There is also a risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal or regulatory issue may change over time to our detriment. In addition, changes in the overall legal or regulatory environment may, even absent any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of an issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal or regulatory risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow or otherwise negatively impact the profitability of our business. The primary purpose of insurance company regulation supervision is the protection of insurance policyholders, rather than investors. The extent of regulation varies, but generally is governed by state statutes in the United States and by the FSA and the MOF in Japan. These systems of supervision and regulation cover, among other things: • standards of establishing and setting premium rates and the approval thereof • standards of minimum capital requirements and solvency margins, including risk-based capital measures • restrictions on, limitations on and required approval of certain transactions between our insurance subsidiaries and their affiliates, including management fee arrangements • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments • restrictions on the types of terms and conditions that we can include in the insurance policies offered by our primary insurance operations • limitations on the amount of dividends that insurance subsidiaries can pay or foreign profits that can be repatriated • the existence and licensing status of the Company under circumstances where it is not writing new or renewal business • certain required methods of accounting • reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes I-18 Table of Contents • assignment of residual market business and potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies • administrative practices requirements • imposition of fines and other sanctions Sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and support a network of qualified sales associates. Our sales could be adversely affected if our sales networks deteriorate or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education for our existing network. Competition exists for sales associates with demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers and financial institutions primarily on the basis of our products, compensation, support services and financial rating. An inability to attract and retain qualified sales associates could have a material adverse effect on sales and our results of operations and financial condition. Our sales associates are independent contractors and may sell products of our competitors. If our competitors offer products that are more attractive than ours, or pay higher commissions than we do, these sales associates may concentrate their efforts on selling our competitors’ products instead of ours. Success of our business depends in part on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology; certain significant multiyear strategic information technology projects are currently in process. Our business depends in large part on our technology systems for interacting with employers, policyholders and sales associates, and our business strategy involves providing customers with easy-to-use products to meet their needs. Some of our information technology systems and software are older, legacy-type systems that are less efficient and require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain or upgrade to current standards (including adequate business continuity procedures). While we are in a continual state of upgrading and enhancing Aflac business systems, changes are always challenging in a complex integrated environment. Aflac uses proven techniques, controls and standards to minimize the risk associated with a changing technical environment. We are currently developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and customer demands. Our success is dependent in large part on maintaining or improving the effectiveness of existing systems and continuing to develop and enhance information systems that support our business processes in a cost-efficient manner. Changes in accounting standards issued by the FASB or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles in both the United States and Japan, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results and financial condition. I-19 Table of Contents Any decrease in our financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position. Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and generally have an effect on an insurance company’s business. On an ongoing basis, rating agencies review the financial performance and condition of insurers and could downgrade or change the outlook on an insurer’s ratings due to, for example, a change in an insurer’s statutory capital; a change in a rating agency’s determination of the amount of risk-adjusted capital required to maintain a particular rating; an increase in the perceived risk of an insurer’s investment portfolio; a reduced confidence in management; or other considerations that may or may not be under the insurer’s control. Because all of our ratings are subject to continual review, the retention of these ratings cannot be assured. A multilevel downgrade in any of these ratings could have a material adverse effect on agent recruiting and retention, sales, competitiveness, and the marketability of our products impacting our liquidity, operating results and financial condition. We face risks related to litigation. We are a defendant in various lawsuits considered to be in the normal course of business. Members of our senior legal and financial management teams review litigation on a quarterly and annual basis. The final results of any litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. Although some of this litigation is pending in states where large punitive damages, bearing little relation to the actual damages sustained by plaintiffs, have been awarded in recent years, we believe the outcome of pending litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, litigation could adversely affect us because of the costs of defending these cases, costs of settlement or judgments against us or because of changes in our operations that could result from litigation. Managing key executive succession is critical to our success. We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for succession of our senior management and other key executives. While we have succession plans and employment arrangements with certain key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of these executives will be available to us. We also face other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, which include: • any requirement to restate financial results in the event of inappropriate application of accounting principles • any event that could damage our reputation • failure of our processes to prevent and detect unethical conduct of employees • a significant failure of internal controls over financial reporting • failure of our prevention and control systems related to employee compliance with internal policies and regulatory requirements • failure of corporate governance policies and procedures I-20 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 