Item 1A. Risk Factors. I-18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. I-24 Item 2. Properties. I-24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. I-24 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. I-24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. II-1 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. II-3 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. II-5 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. II-41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. II-42 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. II-96 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. II-96 Item 9B. Other Information. II-98 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. III-1 Item 11. Executive Compensation. III-1 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. III-1 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. III-2 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. III-2 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. IV-1 i Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). This report includes certain forward-looking information that is based on current expectations and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. For details on forward-looking information, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Part II, Item 7, of this report. Aflac Incorporated qualifies as a large accelerated filer within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 12b-2. Our Internet address is aflac.com. The information on the Company’s Web site is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge on our Web site, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments thereto as soon as reasonably practicable after those forms have been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). General Description Aflac Incorporated (the Parent Company) was incorporated in 1973 under the laws of the state of Georgia. Aflac Incorporated is a general business holding company and acts as a management company, overseeing the operations of its subsidiaries by providing management services and making capital available. Its principal business is supplemental health and life insurance, which is marketed and administered through its subsidiary, American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus (Aflac), which operates in the United States (Aflac U.S.) and as a branch in Japan (Aflac Japan). Most of Aflac’s policies are individually underwritten and marketed through independent agents. Our insurance operations in the United States and our branch in Japan service the two markets for our insurance business. We believe Aflac is the world’s leading writer of individually issued policies marketed at worksites. We continue to diversify our product offerings in both Japan and the United States. Aflac Japan sells cancer plans, care plans, general medical indemnity plans, medical/sickness riders, living benefit life plans, ordinary life insurance plans and annuities. Aflac U.S. sells cancer plans and various types of health insurance, including accident/disability, fixed-benefit dental, sickness and hospital indemnity, vision care, hospital intensive care, long-term care, ordinary life, and short-term disability plans. We are authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, several U.S. territories and Japan. Aflac Japan accounted for 72% of the Company’s total revenues in 2006, 74% in 2005 and 75% in 2004. The percentage of total assets attributable to Aflac Japan was 82% at both December 31, 2006 and 2005. For additional information see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. Results of Operations For information on our results of operations and financial information by segment, see MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. I-1 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Translation For information regarding the effect of currency fluctuations on our business, see the Foreign Currency Translation and Currency Risk sections of MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. Insurance Premiums The growth of earned premiums is directly affected by the change in premiums in force and by the change in weighted-average yen/dollar exchange rates. Consolidated earned premiums were $12.3 billion in 2006, $12.0 billion in 2005, and $11.3 billion in 2004. For additional information on the composition of earned premiums by segment, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac’s insurance business for the years ended December 31. (In millions) 2006 2005 2004 Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year $ 12,415 $ 12,604 $ 11,446 New sales, including conversions 2,433 2,426 2,319 Change in unprocessed new sales (56 ) (67 ) (106 ) Premiums lapsed and surrendered (1,589 ) (1,483 ) (1,398 ) Other 79 58 86 Foreign currency translation adjustment (87 ) (1,123 ) 257 Annualized premiums in force, end of year $ 13,195 $ 12,415 $ 12,604 Insurance - Japan We translate Aflac Japan’s annualized premiums in force into dollars at the respective end-of-period exchange rates. Changes in annualized premiums in force are translated at weighted-average exchange rates. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac Japan for the years ended December 31. In Dollars In Yen (In millions of dollars and billions of yen) 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year $ 8,705 $ 9,230 $ 8,403 1,028 962 900 New sales, including conversions 1,010 1,167 1,133 117 129 123 Change in unprocessed new sales (56 ) (67 ) (106 ) (6 ) (8 ) (11 ) Premiums lapsed and surrendered (463 ) (470 ) (469 ) (54 ) (52 ) (51 ) Other (15 ) (32 ) 12 (2 ) (3 ) 1 Foreign currency translation adjustment (87 ) (1,123 ) 257 - - - Annualized premiums in force, end of year $ 9,094 $ 8,705 $ 9,230 1,083 1,028 962 I-2 Table of Contents For further information regarding Aflac Japan’s financial results, sales and the Japanese economy, see the Aflac Japan section of MD&A in this report. Insurance - U.S. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac U.S. for the years ended December 31. (In millions) 2006 2005 2004 Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year $ 3,711 $ 3,374 $ 3,043 New sales, including conversions 1,423 1,259 1,186 Premiums lapsed (1,127 ) (1,012 ) (929 ) Other 94 90 74 Annualized premiums in force, end of year $ 4,101 $ 3,711 $ 3,374 For further information regarding Aflac’s U.S. financial results and sales, see the Aflac U.S. section of MD&A in this report. Insurance Products - Japan Aflac Japan’s insurance products are designed to help consumers pay for medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed under Japan’s national health insurance system. Changes in Japan’s economy and an aging population have put increasing pressure on Japan’s national health care system. As a result, more costs are being shifted to Japanese consumers, who in turn have become increasingly interested in insurance products that help them manage those costs. Aflac Japan has responded to this consumer need by enhancing existing products and developing new products. Aflac Japan’s stand-alone medical product, EVER, offers a basic level of hospitalization coverage with an affordable premium. We introduced two new versions of EVER in early 2005: EVER Half and EVER Bonus. EVER Half is a whole-life medical policy with benefits similar to the original EVER product. With EVER Half, premiums are cut in half when the policyholder reaches age 60 or 65. EVER Bonus has all of the same features of EVER Half, but also provides a bonus payment every 10 years unless the hospitalization benefit was paid for 10 or more consecutive days. In addition, EVER Bonus provides a death benefit and a cash surrender value. We continue to believe that the medical category will be an important part of our product portfolio. The cancer life insurance plans we offer in Japan provide a lump-sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of internal cancer and a fixed daily benefit for hospitalization and outpatient services related to cancer as well as surgical, convalescent and terminal care benefits. These plans differ from Aflac U.S. cancer plans in that the Japanese policies may also provide death benefits and cash surrender values. In 2006, we designed a new cancer product for distribution by Dai-ichi Life that is customized for their market. In 2005, we introduced a new cancer insurance product that incorporates a wellness benefit, while also increasing the daily outpatient benefit to the same level as the hospitalization I-3 Table of Contents benefit. Our Rider MAX product provides accident and medical/sickness benefits as a rider to our cancer life policy. The life products that we offer in Japan provide death benefits and cash surrender values. These products are available as stand-alone policies and riders. We introduced a new product called WAYS in early 2006. WAYS is a life insurance policy that allows policyholders to convert a portion of their life insurance to medical, nursing care, or fixed annuity benefits at a predetermined age. We also offer traditional fixed-income annuities and care policies. For additional information on Aflac Japan’s products and composition of sales, see the Aflac Japan section of MD&A in this report. Insurance Products - U.S. We design our U.S. insurance products to provide supplemental coverage for people who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage. The policies are portable and pay regardless of other insurance. Our health insurance plans are guaranteed-renewable for the lifetime of the policyholder (to age 70 for short-term disability policies). We cannot cancel guaranteed-renewable coverage, but we can increase premium rates on existing policies on a uniform, nondiscriminatory basis by class of policy in response to adverse experience. Any premium rate increases are subject to state regulatory approval. We have had minimal rate increase activity in the last five years. Aflac U.S. offers an accident and disability policy to protect against losses resulting from accidents. The accident portion of the policy includes lump-sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment, and specific injuries as well as fixed benefits for hospital confinement. Optional disability riders are also available. Short-term disability policies provide disability benefits with a variety of elimination and benefit period options. The longest such benefit period offered is two years. Our U.S. cancer plans are designed to provide insurance benefits for medical and nonmedical costs that are not covered by major medical insurance. Benefits include a first-occurrence benefit that pays an initial amount when internal cancer is first diagnosed; a fixed amount for each day an insured is hospitalized for cancer treatment; fixed amounts for radiation, chemotherapy, and surgery; and a wellness benefit applicable toward certain diagnostic tests. Our hospital indemnity products provide fixed daily benefits for hospitalization due to accident or sickness. In 2005, we introduced a new version of our hospital indemnity plan. Indemnity benefits for inpatient and outpatient surgeries, as well as various other diagnostic expenses, are also available. Our sickness indemnity plan provides a fixed daily benefit for hospitalization due to sickness and fixed amounts for physician services for accident or sickness. In July 2006, we introduced a revised specified health event policy that gives consumers three benefit and premium levels from which they may select. One of the levels combines the new specified health event policy with our intensive care plan. By leveraging administrative efficiencies, consumers can purchase the combined coverage for less money than if they had purchased the policies separately. I-4 Table of Contents Aflac U.S. offers term and whole-life policies sold through payroll deduction at the worksite and various term and whole-life policies on a direct basis. In early 2006, we introduced a revised life insurance portfolio called the Life Protector Series. This product line offers term policies with varying duration options and a new whole-life policy with additional benefits, including an increased face value option. These revisions greatly enhanced the product category and contributed to its success in the marketplace. We also offer a series of fixed-benefit dental policies, providing various levels of benefits for dental procedures, including checkups and cleanings. Plan features include a renewal guarantee, no deductible and no network restrictions. In 2005, we introduced Vision NowSM, which provides benefits for serious eye health conditions and loss of sight. Vision Now includes coverage for corrective eye materials and exam benefits. We also offer other health insurance products including tax qualified and non-qualified long-term care plans. For additional information on Aflac’s U.S. products and composition of sales, see the Aflac U.S. section of MD&A in this report. Distribution - Japan We sell our products primarily through two distribution channels: independent/individual agencies and affiliated corporate agencies. The individual agencies and independent corporate agencies that sell our products give us better access to workers at the vast number of small businesses in Japan. Agents’ activities are primarily focused on insurance sales, with customer service support provided by the Aflac Contact Center. Individual agencies contributed 58% of total new annualized premium sales in 2006, and 57% in both 2005 and 2004. Affiliated corporate agencies are formed when companies establish subsidiary businesses to sell our insurance products to their employees, suppliers and customers. These agencies help us reach employees at large worksites, including 90% of the companies listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Reflecting changed employment patterns and consumers’ desire for consultation, Aflac’s sales growth through large affiliated corporate agencies has slowed for several years. However, we still consider the corporate channel to be an important part of our distribution system and believe it is a valuable means for reaching workers at large employers. To rejuvenate this channel, we are encouraging our affiliated agencies to move away from passive, or “pull” sales tactics, like direct mailings and newspaper ads, and instead adopt active, or “push” techniques that involve more follow-up calls and face-to-face sales consultations. We are also working to have some of our larger affiliated agencies form alliances with individual agencies who already have expertise in a face-to-face sales approach. Affiliated corporate agencies contributed 33% of total new annualized premium sales in 2006, compared with 35% in 2005 and 36% in 2004. To improve the overall effectiveness of our sales force, we started a new training initiative. This new program uses six months of classroom training and practical field training to equip sales I-5 Table of Contents associates with the skills necessary for their success. By the end of 2006, we had trained more than 700 of Aflac Japan’s field employees, who in turn, are now positioned to train primarily newly recruited sales associates. Aflac Service Shops, which are primarily owned and operated by individual sales agencies, are gaining in popularity as many consumers in Japan seek one-on-one consultation and convenience in handling their insurance needs. By the end of 2006, we had 570 Aflac Service Shops throughout Japan. As of December 31, 2006, there were approximately 18,400 agencies in Japan with more than 90,000 licensed agents, compared with approximately 17,960 agencies and 81,700 licensed agents a year ago. We believe that new agencies will continue to be attracted to Aflac Japan’s high commissions, superior products, customer service and brand image. We also continued to reach consumers through our strategic marketing alliance with Dai-ichi Mutual Life Insurance Company (Dai-ichi Life). We believe our alliance has been one of the most successful partnerships in the insurance industry. In 2006, Dai-ichi Life sold 269,700 of our market leading cancer life policies, compared with 277,700 policies in 2005 and 244,400 policies in 2004, leading Dai-ichi to retain its distinction as the number two seller of cancer insurance behind only Aflac Japan. We expect that our distribution system will continue to evolve in Japan. Regulatory changes that are scheduled to take effect on December 31, 2007 will enable banks to sell our products to their customers. Although there will undoubtedly be a lot of competition for the bank distribution channel, we have established long-term relationships with many banks throughout Japan, and we are excited about the opportunity to grow our business through this channel beginning in 2008. For additional information on Aflac Japan’s distribution, see the Aflac Japan section of MD&A in this report. Distribution - U.S. Our U.S. sales force comprises sales associates who are independent contractors licensed to sell accident and health insurance. Many are also licensed to sell life insurance. Associates are paid personal production commissions based on first-year and renewal premiums from their sales of insurance products. In addition to receiving commissions on personal production, associates who serve as district, regional and state sales coordinators may also receive override commissions and incentive bonuses. Most associates’ efforts are principally focused on selling supplemental insurance at the worksite. Administrative personnel in Georgia, New York, and Nebraska handle policyholder service functions, including issuance of policies, premium collection, payment notices and claims. I-6 Table of Contents We concentrate on marketing our products at the worksite. This method offers policies to individuals through common media such as employment, trade and other associations. This manner of marketing is distinct from the group insurance sales approach, as our primary method of enrollment results from the individual insured being directly contacted by the sales associate. Policies are individually underwritten, with premiums generally paid by the employee. Additionally, Aflac policies are portable, meaning that individuals may retain their full insurance coverage upon separation from employment or such affiliation, generally at the same premium. We collect a major portion of premiums on such sales through payroll deduction or other forms of centralized billing. Worksite marketing enables a sales associate to reach a greater number of prospective policyholders and lowers distribution costs, compared with individually marketed business. During 2004 and 2005, we took several steps to enhance our distribution system. We concentrated on expanding our sales management infrastructure and training and recruiting initiatives. In 2006, we continued our focus on recruiting and training as a means for growing our producer base. During 2006, recruiting was up 7.8% to approximately 26,100 new sales associates, compared with 2005. The total number of licensed agents was 8.5% higher at December 31, 2006, compared with year-end 2005. The goal of our recruiting and training focus has been to increase the number of sales associates producing business on a weekly basis. We believe that we can achieve better producer growth through more effective and standardized training for our sales associates and sales management. As previously disclosed, we shifted our focus during 2006 from average monthly producers to average weekly producers as both a reporting and management metric. This shift enables active management of our sales associates and allows our sales management to monitor progress and needs on a real-time basis. On a weekly basis, the average number of U.S. associates actively producing business during 2006 was 10,300, compared with 9,700 in both 2005 and 2004. For new sales associates, we continued to implement LEASE training, which stands for Larger Earnings by Acquiring Smaller Employers. In 2006, we merged LEASE with the New Associate Training Cycle, combining classroom instruction, e-learning through Aflac University® and field training. We believe that combining LEASE into the New Associate Training Cycle will help get new sales associates off to a quick start. In addition, associates that exhibit leadership skills are invited to participate in our national Coordinator in Training (CIT) program, which we introduced nationwide in July 2005. The goal of the CIT program is to build a pool of well-trained candidates for the district sales coordinator (DSC) position, which is the first level of Aflac sales management. As such, the CIT program concentrates on developing their skills so that they have a better chance to succeed as a DSC and beyond. And finally, we introduced an enhanced regional coordinator accreditation program (RCAP) in 2006. This program was designed for both new and experienced regional sales coordinators (RSCs). In early 2006, we began bringing current RSCs to Aflac Worldwide Headquarters for five days of intense and interactive workshops in areas such as recruiting, leadership, planning, team building, and technology. I-7 Table of Contents For additional information on Aflac’s U.S. distribution, see the Aflac U.S. section of MD&A in this report. Competition - Japan In 1974, Aflac became the second non-Japanese life insurance company to gain direct access to the Japanese insurance market by obtaining an operating license. Through 1981, we faced limited competition for cancer life insurance policy sales. However, Japan has experienced two periods of deregulation since we entered the market. The first came in the early 1980s, when nine mid-sized insurers, including domestic and foreign, were allowed to sell cancer insurance products for the first time. In 2001, all life and non-life insurers were allowed to sell stand-alone cancer and medical insurance products as well as other stand-alone health insurance products. As a result, the number of insurance companies offering stand-alone cancer and medical insurance has more than doubled in the five years since full deregulation. However, based on our growth of annualized premiums in force and agencies, we do not believe that our market leading position has been significantly impacted by increased competition as a result of deregulation. Furthermore, we believe the continued development and maintenance of operating efficiencies will allow us to offer affordable products that appeal to consumers. Aflac has had substantial success selling cancer life policies in Japan, with 14 million cancer life policies in force as of December 31, 2006. We believe we will remain a leading provider of cancer life insurance coverage in Japan, principally due to our experience in the market, low-cost operations, unique marketing system (see Distribution - Japan above) and product expertise. We have also experienced substantial success selling medical insurance in Japan. While other companies have recognized the opportunities that we have seen in the medical insurance market and offered new products, we believe our products stand out as a tremendous value to consumers. Aflac Japan continued to be the number one seller of stand-alone medical insurance in the life insurance industry in terms of policy sales throughout the year. Competition - U.S. Approximately 2,000 life insurance companies are licensed in the United States. We compete against several insurers on a national basis plus other insurers regionally. We believe our policies and premium rates, as well as the commissions paid to our sales agents, are competitive with those offered by other companies providing similar types of insurance. However, we believe our U.S. business is distinct from our competitors because of our product focus, distribution system, and brand awareness. For many of the other companies that sell supplemental insurance, it represents a secondary business. For us, it is our primary business. We also believe that our growing distribution system of independent sales associates expands our business opportunities, while our advertising campaigns have increased our name awareness and the effectiveness of our branding efforts. Private insurers and voluntary and cooperative plans, such as Blue Cross and Blue Shield, provide insurance for hospitalization and medical expenses. Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis. The federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical treatment through various I-8 Table of Contents programs. Such major medical insurance generally covers a substantial amount of the medical expenses incurred by an insured as a result of accident and disability, cancer or other major illnesses. Aflac’s policies are designed to provide coverage that supplements major medical insurance and may also be used to defray nonmedical expenses. Thus, we do not compete directly with major medical insurers. However, the scope of major medical coverage offered by other insurers does represent a potential limitation on the market for our products. Accordingly, expansion of coverage by other insurers or governmental programs could adversely affect our business opportunities. Conversely, any reduction of coverage, or increased deductibles and copayments, by other insurers or governmental programs could favorably affect our business opportunities. Investments and Investment Results Net investment income was $2.2 billion in 2006, $2.1 billion in 2005, and $2.0 billion in 2004. Growth of net investment income during the last three years has been impacted by low available investment yields for new money in both Japan and the United States. In particular, Japan’s life insurance industry has contended with low investment yields for a number of years. Although the Bank of Japan ended its zero-interest-rate policy in 2006, market yields on long-duration fixed maturity securities, which we primarily purchase, did not increase significantly during the year. Investments - Japan The following table presents the composition of total investments and cash for Aflac Japan ($42.5 billion in 2006 and $39.5 billion in 2005) as of December 31. Composition of Securities by Sector 2006 2005 Debt securities, at amortized cost: Government and guaranteed 19.8 % 22.2 % Municipalities .1 .1 Public utilities 8.0 7.6 Collateralized debt obligations .3 - Banks/financial institutions 44.6 43.3 Sovereign and supranational 8.8 8.9 Mortgage- and asset-backed securities .8 .4 Other corporate 16.7 16.1 Total debt securities 99.1 98.6 Equity securities and other .1 .2 Cash and cash equivalents .8 1.2 Total investments and cash 100.0 % 100.0 % Yen-denominated debt securities accounted for 93% of Aflac Japan’s total debt securities at both December 31, 2006 and 2005. I-9 Table of Contents Funds available for investment include cash flows from operations, which include investment income, and funds generated from bond swaps, maturities and redemptions. Aflac Japan purchased debt security investments totaling approximately 687.9 billion yen in 2006 (approximately $5.9 billion), 873.4 billion yen in 2005 (approximately $7.8 billion), and 556.1 billion yen in 2004 (approximately $5.1 billion). Equity security purchases were immaterial during the three-year period ended December 31, 2006. The following table presents the composition of debt security purchases for the years ended December 31. Composition of Purchases by Sector 2006 2005 2004 Debt security purchases, at cost: Government and guaranteed 23.6 % 43.9 % 30.0 % Municipalities .1 - - Public utilities 9.2 2.3 8.0 Collateralized debt obligations 2.5 - - Banks/financial institutions 36.3 46.8 50.0 Sovereign and supranational 8.9 .2 6.7 Mortgage- and asset-backed securities 3.5 .4 .6 Other corporate 15.9 6.4 4.7 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % The distributions by credit rating of Aflac Japan’s purchases of debt securities for the years ended December 31, based on acquisition cost, were as follows: Composition of Purchases by Credit Rating 2006 2005 2004 AAA 9.7 % 1.7 % 6.9 % AA 53.7 50.1 47.7 A 33.4 43.6 30.8 BBB 3.2 4.6 14.6 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % The distributions of debt securities owned by Aflac Japan by credit rating were as follows: Composition by Credit Rating December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Cost Value Cost Value AAA 4.8 % 4.8 % 2.9 % 2.9 % AA 37.9 39.0 37.0 38.6 A 38.0 37.6 37.0 36.6 BBB 16.6 16.4 21.0 20.3 BB or lower 2.7 2.2 2.1 1.6 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % I-10 Table of Contents The increase in Aflac Japan’s holding of AAA-rated debt securities resulted from purchases as well as credit ratings upgrades. The increase in BB or lower resulted from credit ratings downgrades. Investments - U.S. The following table presents the composition of total investments and cash for Aflac U.S. ($7.1 billion in 2006 and $6.5 billion in 2005) as of December 31. Composition of Securities by Sector 2006 2005 Debt securities, at amortized cost: Government and guaranteed 4.8 % 4.3 % Municipalities .8 .4 Collateralized debt obligations .2 - Mortgage- and asset-backed securities 3.2 2.6 Public utilities 9.4 9.8 Sovereign and supranational 3.3 3.7 Banks/financial institutions 44.0 41.6 Other corporate 29.6 31.7 Total debt securities 95.3 94.1 Cash and cash equivalents 4.7 5.9 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % Funds available for investment include cash flows from operations, which include investment income, and funds generated from bond swaps, maturities and redemptions. Aflac U.S. purchased debt security investments totaling approximately $1.2 billion in both 2006 and 2005, and $1.1 billion in 2004. Equity security purchases were immaterial during the three-year period ended December 31, 2006. The following table presents the composition of debt security purchases for the years ended December 31. Composition of Purchases by Sector 2006 2005 2004 Debt security purchases, at cost: Government and guaranteed 6.5 % 14.1 % 9.2 % Municipalities 2.5 .1 .1 Mortgage- and asset-backed securities 5.4 9.9 9.9 Collateralized debt obligations .8 - - Public utilities 4.6 3.9 8.0 Sovereign and supranational - 2.4 .3 Banks/financial institutions 54.9 36.0 45.8 Other corporate 25.3 33.6 26.7 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % I-11 Table of Contents The distributions by credit rating of Aflac’s U.S. purchases of debt securities for the years ended December 31, based on acquisition cost, were as follows: Composition of Purchases by Credit Rating 2006 2005 2004 AAA 15.1 % 33.8 % 19.1 % AA 26.1 17.4 12.2 A 42.9 37.4 63.0 BBB 15.9 11.4 5.7 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % The distributions of debt securities owned by Aflac U.S. by credit rating were as follows: Composition by Credit Rating December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Cost Value Cost Value AAA 11.8 % 10.9 % 11.0 % 10.0 % AA 17.0 17.0 12.4 12.5 A 47.5 48.2 50.6 51.7 BBB 21.6 22.0 22.2 22.5 BB or lower 2.1 1.9 3.8 3.3 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % For additional information on the composition of our investment portfolios and investment results, see the Investments and Cash section in MD&A and Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. Regulation - Japan The financial and business affairs of Aflac Japan are subject to examination by Japan’s Financial Services Agency (FSA). Aflac Japan files annual reports and financial statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 fiscal year end, prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the FSA. Japanese regulatory basis earnings are determined using accounting principles that differ materially from U.S. GAAP. Under Japanese regulatory accounting practices, policy acquisition costs are charged off immediately; deferred income tax liabilities are recognized on a different basis; policy benefit and claim reserving methods and assumptions are different; the carrying value of securities transferred to held to maturity is different; policyholder protection fund obligations are not accrued; and premium income is recognized I-12 Table of Contents on a cash basis. Reconciliations of the net assets of the Japan branch on a U.S. GAAP basis to net assets determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis as of December 31 were as follows: (In millions) 2006 2005 Aflac Japan net assets on GAAP basis $ 5,740 $ 5,472 Elimination of deferred policy acquisition costs (3,857 ) (3,624 ) Adjustment to income tax liabilities 1,746 1,501 Adjustment to policy liabilities (239 ) 139 Adjustment of unrealized gains and other adjustments to carrying value of debt securities (532 ) (518 ) Elimination of policyholder protection fund liability 175 203 Reduction in premiums receivable (91 ) (96 ) Other, net (331 ) (290 ) Aflac Japan net assets on Japanese regulatory accounting basis $ 2,611 $ 2,787 The FSA maintains a solvency standard, which is used by Japanese regulators to monitor the financial strength of insurance companies. Aflac Japan’s solvency margin continues to significantly exceed regulatory minimums. A portion of Aflac Japan’s annual earnings, as determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis, may be repatriated each year to Aflac U.S. after complying with solvency margin provisions and satisfying various conditions imposed by Japan’s regulatory authorities for protecting policyholders. These repatriated profits represent a portion of Aflac Japan’s after-tax earnings reported to the FSA on a March 31 fiscal year basis. If needed, we may elect not to repatriate profits to Aflac U.S. or to repatriate a reduced amount to strengthen Aflac Japan’s solvency margin. In addition, the FSA may not allow profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to Aflac U.S. if they would cause Aflac Japan to lack sufficient financial strength for the protection of Japanese policyholders. We do not expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for profit repatriations. Nor do we expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for payments of allocated expenses to Aflac U.S. and management fees to the Parent Company. As disclosed in our third quarter 2006 Form 10-Q, Aflac Japan, along with the entire life insurance industry, began a review of the last five years of paid claims to determine if those claims were paid fully and accurately. In a recent notification from the FSA, the review process has been changed from a voluntary program to one that is mandatory and has been expanded to include a review of cash surrender value payments. Additionally, the FSA established a reporting deadline of April 13, 2007. We expect to complete our review of claims and cash surrender value payments and report our findings to the FSA within the time frame specified. As a result of this review, we have found some payment errors and we are correcting them. Additionally, we are using this review to identify process changes that will help ensure that payment errors such as these are not repeated. Although immaterial to our financial statements, we have provided for our estimate of the underpaid portion of those claims in our unpaid policy claims liability as of December 31, 2006. I-13 Table of Contents The Japanese insurance industry has a policyholder protection fund that provides funds for the policyholders of insolvent insurers. For additional information regarding the policyholder protection fund, see the Policyholder Protection Fund section of MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. In October 2005, legislation aimed at privatizing Japan’s postal system (Japan Post) was enacted into law. Prior to the move to privatize, Japan Post enjoyed significant advantages over the private sector, which in turn made competing against it difficult for the private sector. The privatization laws split Japan Post into four independent entities and generally recognize the need for a level playing field between Japan Post and the private sector. Specifically, the laws contain a commitment to implement “measures to ensure equivalent conditions of competition” between the four privatized Japan Post companies and other companies “engaged in like business operations.” The laws also require the postal insurance entity of Japan Post to ultimately be subject to the same tax and policyholder safety-net contribution requirements as its private industry competitors. In addition, the insurance entity would also be subject to Insurance Business Law and FSA supervision. The privatization process is scheduled to be completed by October 2017. In July 2006, Japan Post submitted an outline of its privatization plan to the government. When the new Japan Post financial entities start operations on October 1, 2007, they will be limited to the products that they now currently offer. Japan Post is scheduled to submit a full version of its privatization plan to the government in April 2007. Various government entities will then review the plan. This review should be completed by the end of July 2007. After October 2007, any new business proposals would, in addition to the normal FSA approval process, have to undergo a special review by Japan’s Postal Privatization Committee and approval by Japan’s Prime Minister and the Minister for Internal Affairs and Communications. Our branch in Japan is also subject to regulation and supervision in the United States (see Regulation - U.S.). For additional information regarding Aflac Japan’s operations and regulations, see the Aflac Japan section of MD&A and Notes 2 and 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. Regulation - U.S. The Parent Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulations in the United States as an insurance holding company system. Such regulations generally provide that transactions between companies within the holding company system must be fair and equitable. In addition, transfers of assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from insurance subsidiaries, and material transactions between companies within the system are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, state regulatory authorities. I-14 Table of Contents Like all U.S. insurance companies, Aflac is subject to regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business. In general, the insurance laws of the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relating to, among other things: · granting and revoking licenses to transact business · regulating trade practices · licensing of agents · approval of policy forms and premium rates · standards of solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum loss ratio requirements · capital requirements · limitations on dividends to shareholders · the nature of and limitations on investments · deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders · filing of financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory insurance accounting practices prescribed or permitted by regulatory authorities · periodic examinations of the market conduct, financial, and other affairs of insurance companies Additionally, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is constantly reviewing regulatory matters and recommending changes and revisions for adoption by state legislators and insurance departments. The NAIC uses a risk-based capital formula relating to insurance risk, business risk, asset risk and interest rate risk to facilitate identification by insurance regulators of inadequately capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and mixtures of risks inherent in the insurer’s operations. The formulas for determining the amount of risk-based capital specify various weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of the Company’s regulatory total adjusted capital to its authorized control level risk-based capital as defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. The levels are Company action, regulatory action, authorized control, and mandatory control. Aflac’s NAIC risk-based capital ratio remains high and reflects a very strong capital and surplus position. For further information concerning Aflac U.S. operations, regulation and dividend restrictions, see the Aflac U.S. section of MD&A and Notes 2 and 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. I-15 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant NAME PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION* AGE Daniel P. Amos Chairman, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; Chief Executive Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; President, Aflac until January 2007 55 Paul S. Amos II President, Aflac since January 2007; Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Operations, Aflac, since February 2006; Executive Vice President, U.S. Operations, Aflac, from January 2005 until January 2007; State Sales Coordinator from November 2002 until December 2004 31 Yuji Arai Senior Vice President, Investments and Investment Analysis, Aflac Japan, since January 2005; Principal Financial Officer, Aflac Japan, since January 2005; Vice President, Investments and Investment Analysis, Aflac Japan from January 2002 until December 2004 44 Susan R. Blanck Senior Vice President, Corporate Actuary, Aflac since January 2006; Senior Vice President, Deputy Corporate Actuary, Aflac from March 2004 until December 2005; Vice President, Associate Actuary until March 2004 40 Kriss Cloninger III President, Aflac Incorporated; Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; Executive Vice President, Aflac; Treasurer, Aflac Incorporated 59 Rebecca C. Davis Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac, since October 2004; Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac, until October 2004 56 Martin A. Durant III Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance, Aflac Incorporated, since July 2006; Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, Carmike Cinemas, Inc. until March 2006 58 Jun Isonaka Senior Vice President, Sales, Aflac Japan since January 2007; Vice President, Contact Center, Aflac Japan from January 2006 to December 2006; Vice President, Territory Director, Northeast Territory, Aflac Japan from January 2005 to December 2005; Vice President, Administrative and Customer Service Division, Aflac Japan from January 2002 to December 2004 49 Kenneth S. Janke Jr. Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Aflac Incorporated 48 W. Jeremy Jeffery Senior Vice President, Chief Investment Officer, Aflac since January 2007; Senior Vice President, Deputy Chief Investment Officer, Aflac from October 2005 until January 2007; Executive Director, Morgan Stanley until October 2005 56 I-16 Table of Contents Akitoshi Kan President, Aflac Japan, since April 2005; Chairman, Aflac International, Inc. since January 2005.; Chief Operating Officer, Aflac Japan, since January 2005; Executive Vice President, U.S. Internal Operations, Aflac, until December 2004 59 Ronald E. Kirkland Senior Vice President, Director of Sales, Aflac, since January 2005; Vice President, West Territory Director, Aflac, from October 2004 until January 2005; State Sales Coordinator, Missouri, until October 2004 62 Charles D. Lake II Vice Chairman, Aflac Japan, since April 2005; President, Aflac Japan, from January 2003 until March 2005; Deputy President, Aflac Japan, until December 2002 45 Joey M. Loudermilk Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; Director, Legal and Governmental Relations, Aflac 53 Hidefumi Matsui Chairman, Aflac Japan, since January 2003; President, Aflac Japan, until December 2002 62 Takaaki Matsumoto First Senior Vice President, Director of Marketing and Sales, Aflac Japan since January 2007; Senior Vice President, Director of Marketing, Aflac Japan from February 2006 to December 2006; Vice President, Aflac Japan, from January 2005 to January 2006; General Manager, East Japan Claims Department, Aflac Japan, until December 2004 58 Ralph A. Rogers Jr. Senior Vice President, Financial Services, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; Chief Accounting Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since January 2002; Treasurer, Aflac, since March 2002 58 Hiroshi Yamauchi First Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac Japan, since January 2005; First Senior Vice President, Director of Operations, Aflac Japan, from January 2003 until January 2005; First Senior Vice President, Director of Administrative and Customer Service Division, Aflac Japan, from January 2002 until January 2003; Vice President, General Manager of Policy Maintenance Department, Aflac Japan, until January 2002 55 *Unless specifically noted, the respective executive officer has held the occupation(s) set forth in the table for at least the last five years. Each executive officer is appointed annually by the board of directors and serves until his or her successor is chosen and qualified, or until his or her death, resignation or removal. I-17 Table of Contents Employees Aflac Japan had 3,394 employees as of December 31, 2006. Aflac U.S. had 4,017 employees as of December 31, 2006. We consider our employee relations to be excellent. Other Operations Our other operations include the Parent Company and a printing subsidiary. These operations had 293 employees as of December 31, 2006. We consider our relations with these employees to be excellent. For additional information on our other operations, see the Other Operations section of MD&A. ITEM1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk Factors We face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify, prioritize and appropriately manage our enterprise risk exposures. Readers should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Form 10-K. These risks and other factors may affect forward-looking statements, including those in this document or made by the Company elsewhere, such as in earnings release webcasts, investor conference presentations or press releases. The risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, it could have a material impact on the Company. We operate in an industry that is subject to ongoing changes. We operate in a competitive environment and in an industry that is subject to ongoing changes from market pressures brought about by customer demands, legislative reform and marketing practices. These factors require us to anticipate market trends and make changes to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors. We also face the potential of competition from existing or new companies that have not historically been in the supplemental health insurance industry. Failure to anticipate market trends and/or to differentiate our products and services can affect our ability to retain or grow profitable lines of business. Our concentration of business in Japan poses risks to our operations. Our operations in Japan accounted for 72%, 74%, and 75% of our total revenues for 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, and 82% of our total assets at both December 31, 2006 and 2005. As a result, weakness in Japan’s economy could adversely affect our business. The weak economy in Japan that emerged in the early 1990s resulted in a challenging marketing environment for Aflac Japan, with declining available investment yields for new investments and decreased consumer confidence. Although the Japanese economy has shown signs of improvement from time to time, the time required for a full recovery remains uncertain. I-18 Table of Contents Japanese currency translation risk could adversely impact operating results. Due to the size of Aflac Japan, where our functional currency is the Japanese yen, fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. In periods when the yen weakens, translating yen into dollars causes fewer dollars to be reported. When the yen strengthens, translating yen into dollars causes more dollars to be reported. Aflac Japan’s premiums and most of its investment income are received in yen. Claims and expenses are paid in yen, and we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. These and other yen-denominated financial statement items are translated into dollars for financial reporting purposes. However, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. Except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert yen into dollars. As a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting issue for Aflac and not an economic event to our Company or shareholders. General market conditions affect investments and investment income. We have substantial investment portfolios that support our policy liabilities. Low levels of interest rates on investments, such as those experienced in the United States and Japan during recent years, have negatively impacted the level of investment income earned by the Company. Slower investment income growth will occur if a low-interest-rate environment persists. Financial market conditions can also affect our realized and unrealized investment gains or losses. During periods of rising interest rates, the fair values of our investments will decline. Conversely, during periods of falling interest rates, the fair values of our investments will rise. However, should significant amounts of unrealized gains/losses occur because of changes in market yields, we would not expect to realize significant gains or losses due to our ability and intent to hold the securities to maturity or recovery of value. Availability of acceptable yen-denominated investments could adversely affect our profits. We attempt to match the duration of our assets with the duration of our liabilities. At December 31, 2006, the average duration of Aflac Japan’s policy liabilities and its yen-denominated debt securities was approximately 13 years. When our debt securities mature, there is a risk that the proceeds will be reinvested at a yield below that of the interest required for the accretion of policy liabilities. If this occurs, Aflac Japan’s business would be adversely affected. Concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular sector of the economy may have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and, consequently, on our results of operations and financial position. Events or developments that have a negative impact on any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than diversified. I-19 Table of Contents If future policy benefits, claims or expenses exceed those anticipated in establishing premiums and reserves, our financial results would be adversely affected. We establish and carry, as a liability, reserves based on estimates of how much will be required to pay for future benefits and claims. We calculate these reserves using various assumptions and estimates, including premiums we will receive over the assumed life of the policy; the timing, frequency and severity of the events covered by the insurance policy; and the investment returns on the assets we purchase with a portion of our net cash flow from operations. These assumptions and estimates are inherently uncertain. Accordingly, we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits and claims or whether the assets supporting the policy liabilities will grow to the level we assume prior to payment of benefits or claims. If our actual experience is different from our assumptions or estimates, our reserves may prove inadequate. As a result, we would incur a charge to earnings in the period in which we determine such a shortfall exists. This estimation process is a critical accounting policy for the Company. Our operating subsidiaries provide cash flow to the Parent Company. Aflac Incorporated is a holding company and has no direct operations or no significant assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. There is no assurance that the earnings from, or other available assets of, our operating subsidiaries will be sufficient to make distributions to us to enable us to operate. Extensive regulation can impact profitability and growth. Aflac’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to complex laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of governmental authorities, including state insurance regulators, the SEC, the NAIC, the FSA, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in Japan, the U.S. Department of Justice, state attorneys general, and the Internal Revenue Service, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal or regulatory issue may not result in compliance with another regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. There is also a risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal or regulatory issue may change over time to our detriment. In addition, changes in the overall legal or regulatory environment may, even absent any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of an issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal or regulatory risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow or otherwise negatively impact the profitability of our business. I-20 Table of Contents The primary purpose of insurance company regulation supervision is the protection of insurance policyholders, rather than investors. The extent of regulation varies, but generally is governed by state statutes in the United States and by the FSA and the MOF in Japan. These systems of supervision and regulation cover, among other things: · standards of establishing and setting premium rates and the approval thereof · standards of minimum capital requirements and solvency margins, including risk-based capital measures · restrictions on, limitations on and required approval of certain transactions between our insurance subsidiaries and their affiliates, including management fee arrangements · restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments · restrictions on the types of terms and conditions that we can include in the insurance policies offered by our primary insurance operations · limitations on the amount of dividends that insurance subsidiaries can pay or foreign profits that can be repatriated · the existence and licensing status of the Company under circumstances where it is not writing new or renewal business · certain required methods of accounting · reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes · assignment of residual market business and potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies · administrative practices requirements · imposition of fines and other sanctions Sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and support a network of qualified sales associates. Our sales could be adversely affected if our sales networks deteriorate or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education for our existing network. Competition exists for sales associates with demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers and financial institutions primarily on the basis of our products, compensation, support services and financial rating. An inability to attract and retain qualified sales associates could have a material adverse effect on sales and our results of operations and financial condition. Our sales associates are independent contractors and may sell products of our competitors. If our competitors offer products that are more attractive than ours, or pay higher commissions than we do, these sales associates may concentrate their efforts on selling our competitors’ products instead of ours. I-21 Table of Contents Success of our business depends in part on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology; certain significant multi-year strategic information technology projects are currently in process. Our business depends in large part on our technology systems for interacting with employers, policyholders and sales associates, and our business strategy involves providing customers with easy-to-use products to meet their needs. Some of our information technology systems and software are older, legacy-type systems that are less efficient and require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain or upgrade to current standards (including adequate business continuity procedures). We are currently developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and customer demands. Our success is dependent in large part on maintaining or improving the effectiveness of existing systems and continuing to develop and enhance information systems that support our business processes in a cost-efficient manner. Changes in accounting standards issued by the FASB or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles in both the United States and Japan, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB. It is possible that future changes we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results and financial condition. Any decrease in our financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position. Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and generally have an effect on an insurance company’s business. On an ongoing basis, rating agencies review the financial performance and condition of insurers and could downgrade or change the outlook on an insurer’s ratings due to, for example, a change in an insurer’s statutory capital; a change in a rating agency’s determination of the amount of risk-adjusted capital required to maintain a particular rating; an increase in the perceived risk of an insurer’s investment portfolio; a reduced confidence in management; or other considerations that may or may not be under the insurer’s control. Because all of our ratings are subject to continuous review, the retention of these ratings cannot be assured. A multi-level downgrade in any of these ratings could have a material adverse effect on agent recruiting and retention, sales, competitiveness, and the marketability of our products impacting our liquidity, operating results and financial condition. I-22 Table of Contents We face risks related to litigation. We are a defendant in various lawsuits considered to be in the normal course of business. Senior legal and financial management review litigation on a quarterly and annual basis. The final results of any litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. Although some of this litigation is pending in states where large punitive damages bearing little relation to the actual damages sustained by plaintiffs have been awarded in recent years, we believe the outcome of pending litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, litigation could adversely affect us because of the costs of defending these cases, costs of settlement or judgments against us or because of changes in our operations that could result from litigation. Managing key executive succession is critical to our success. We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for succession of our senior management and other key executives. While we have succession plans and employment arrangements with certain key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of these executives will be available to us. We also face other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, which include: · any requirement to restate financial results in the event of inappropriate application of accounting principles · failure of our processes to prevent and detect unethical conduct of employees · a significant failure of internal controls over financial reporting · failure of our prevention and control systems related to employee compliance with internal policies and regulatory requirements · failure of corporate governance policies and procedures I-23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 