Item 1A. Risk factors Volatility of oil and natural gas prices The company’s results of operations and financial condition are dependent on the prices it receives for its oil and natural gas production. Crude oil and natural gas prices are determined by global and North American markets and are subject to changing supply and demand conditions. These can be influenced by a wide range of factors including economic conditions, international political developments and weather. Disruptions to pipelines linking production to markets may reduce the price for that production or lead to curtailment of production. In the past, crude oil and natural gas prices have been volatile, and the company expects that volatility to continue. Any material decline in oil or natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on certain of the company’s operations (especially in the Upstream segment), financial condition, proved reserves and the amount spent to develop oil and natural gas reserves. A significant portion of the company’s production is bitumen. The market prices for bitumen differ from the established market indices for light and medium grades of oil principally due to the higher transportation and refining costs associated with bitumen and limited refining capacity capable of processing bitumen. Bitumen may also be subject to limits on transportation capacity to markets to a larger extent than light crude oil. As a result, the price received for bitumen is generally lower than the price for medium and light oil. Future differentials are uncertain and increases in the bitumen differentials could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business. The company does not use derivative instruments to offset exposures associated with hydrocarbon prices, currency exchange rates and interest rates that arise from existing assets, liabilities and transactions. The company does not engage in speculative derivative activities nor does it use derivatives with leveraged features. Environmental risks All phases of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of Canadian federal, provincial, territorial and municipal laws and regulations, as well as international conventions (collectively, “environmental legislation”). Environmental legislation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances to the environment. As well, environmental regulations are imposed on the qualities and compositions of the products sold and imported. Environmental legislation also requires that wells, facility sites and other properties associated with the company’s operations be operated, maintained, monitored, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. In addition, certain types of operations, including exploration and development projects and significant changes to certain existing projects, may require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Compliance with environmental legislation can require significant expenditures and failure to comply with environmental legislation may result in the cessation of operations, imposition of fines and penalties and liability for clean-up costs and damages. The costs of complying with environmental legislation in the future could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations. The company anticipates that changes in environmental legislation may require, among other things, reductions in emissions from its operations to the air and water and may result in increased capital expenditures. Changes in environmental regulations or other laws (including, but not limited to, application of regulations related to air, water and biodiversity) may increase our cost of compliance or reduce or delay available business opportunities. Future changes in environmental legislation could occur and result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, and increased capital expenditures and operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations. There are operational risks inherent in oil and gas exploration and production activities, as well as the potential to incur substantial financial liabilities, if those risks are not effectively managed. The ability to insure such risks is limited by the capacity of the applicable insurance markets, which may not be sufficient to cover the likely cost of a major adverse operating event. Accordingly, the company’s primary focus is on prevention, including through its rigorous operations integrity management system. The company’s future results will depend on the continued effectiveness of these efforts. 17 Table of Contents Climate change Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of provinces and the Government of Canada have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. These requirements could make our products more expensive, lengthen project implementation times, and reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as shift hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower-carbon sources such as natural gas. Current and pending greenhouse gas regulations may also increase our compliance and abatement costs. In 2015, the Alberta Government made changes to the Specified Gas Emitters Regulation (SGER) that will increase future costs. Currency Industry crude oil and natural gas commodity prices and petroleum and chemical product prices are commonly benchmarked in U.S. dollars. The majority of Imperial’s sales and purchases are related to these industry U.S. dollar benchmarks. As the company records and reports its financial results in Canadian dollars, to the extent that the Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuates, the company’s earnings will be affected. Reserves replacement The company’s future bitumen, synthetic oil, liquids and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore cash flows, are highly dependent upon the company’s success in exploiting its current reserve base and acquiring or discovering additional reserves. Without additions to the company’s reserves through exploration, acquisition or development activities, reserves and production will decline over time as reserves are depleted. To the extent cash flows from operations are insufficient to fund capital expenditures and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, the company’s ability to make the necessary capital investments to maintain and expand oil and natural gas reserves will be impaired. In addition, the company may be unable to find and develop or acquire additional reserves to replace oil and natural gas production at acceptable costs. Research and development In light of the technological nature of our business and the need for continuous efficiency improvement, the company relies upon the research and development organizations of the company and ExxonMobil, with whom the company conducts shared research. Safety, business controls and environmental risk management The scope and nature of the company’s operations present a variety of significant hazards and risks, including operational hazards and risks such as explosions, fires, pipeline ruptures, crude oil spills, severe weather, and geological events. Our operations are also subject to the additional hazards of pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. Our results depend on management’s ability to minimize these inherent risks, to control effectively our business activities and to minimize the potential for human error. We apply rigorous management systems including a combined program of effective operations integrity management, ongoing upgrades, key equipment replacements, and comprehensive inspection and surveillance. We also maintain a disciplined framework of internal controls and apply a controls management system for monitoring compliance with this framework. Substantial liabilities and other adverse impacts could result if our management systems and controls do not function as intended. Business risks also include the risk of cybersecurity breaches. If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove not to be sufficient, the company could be adversely affected such as by having its business systems compromised, its proprietary information altered, lost or stolen, or its business operations disrupted. Preparedness The company’s operations may be disrupted by severe weather events, natural disasters, human error, and similar events. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impacts of these events depends in part upon the effectiveness of our rigorous disaster preparedness and response planning, as well as business continuity planning. 18 Table of Contents Other business risks The marketability of the company’s production is subject in part to the risks associated with transporting, processing and storing crude oil, natural gas and other related products. The availability, proximity, and capacity of pipeline facilities and railcars could negatively impact our ability to produce at capacity levels. Transportation disruptions could adversely affect commodity prices, the company’s price realizations, refining operations and sales volumes, or limit our ability to deliver production to market. Other factors that may affect the demand for oil, gas and petrochemicals, and therefore impact the company’s results, include technological improvements in energy efficiency; seasonal weather patterns, which affect the demand for energy associated with heating and cooling; increased competitiveness of alternative energy sources; and changes in technology or consumer preferences that alter fuels choices, such as toward alternative fueled vehicles. Reserve estimates There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond the company’s control. In general, estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flow are based upon a number of factors and assumptions made as of the date on which the reserve estimates were determined, such as geological and engineering estimates which have inherent uncertainties, the assumed effects of regulation, including royalty frameworks, by governmental agencies and future commodity prices and operating costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. Actual production, revenues, taxes, and development, abandonment and operating expenditures with respect to reserves will likely vary from such estimates, and such variances could be material. Project factors The company’s results depend on its ability to develop and operate major projects and facilities as planned. The company’s results will, therefore, be affected by events or conditions that affect the advancement, operation, cost or results of such projects or facilities. These risks include the company’s ability to obtain the necessary environmental and other regulatory approvals; changes in resources and operating costs including the availability and cost of materials, equipment and qualified personnel; the impact of general economic, business and market conditions; and the occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties. Management effectiveness In addition to external economic and political factors, our future business results also depend on our ability to manage successfully those factors that are at least in part within our control. The extent to which Imperial manages these factors will impact our performance relative to competition. For projects in which the company is not the operator, Imperial depends on the management effectiveness of one or more co-venturers whom the company does not control. Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments None. 