Item 1A. Risk Factors. Volatility of Oil and Natural Gas Prices The company’s results of operations and financial condition are dependent on the prices it receives for its oil and natural gas production. Crude oil and natural gas prices are determined by global and North American markets and are subject to changing supply and demand conditions. These can be influenced by a wide range of factors including economic conditions, international political developments and weather. In the past, crude oil and natural gas prices have been volatile, and the company expects that volatility to continue. Any material decline in oil or natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on the company’s operations, financial condition, proven reserves and the amount spent to develop oil and natural gas reserves. A significant portion of the company’s production is heavy oil. The market prices for heavy oil differ from the established market indices for light and medium grades of oil principally due to the higher transportation and refining costs associated with heavy oil and limited refining capacity capable of processing heavy oil. As a result, the price received for heavy oil is generally lower than the price for medium and light oil, and the production costs associated with heavy oil are often relatively higher than for lighter grades. Future differentials are uncertain and increases in the heavy oil differentials could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business. The company does not use derivative markets to hedge or sell forward any part of production from any business segment. Competitive Factors The oil and gas industry is highly competitive, particularly in the following areas: searching for and developing new sources of supply; constructing and operating crude oil, natural gas and refined products pipelines and facilities; and the refining, distribution and marketing of petroleum products and chemicals. The company’s competitors include major integrated oil and gas companies and numerous other independent oil and gas companies. The petroleum industry also competes with other industries in supplying energy, fuel and related products to customers. 16 Table of Contents Competitive forces may result in shortages of prospects to drill, services to carry out exploration, development or operating activities and infrastructure to produce and transport production. It may also result in an oversupply of crude oil, natural gas, petroleum products and chemicals. Each of these factors could have a negative impact on costs and prices and, therefore, the company’s financial results. Environmental Risks All phases of the upstream, downstream and chemicals businesses are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of Canadian federal, provincial and municipal laws and regulations, as well as international conventions (collectively, “environmental legislation”). Environmental legislation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances to the environment. As well, environmental regulations are imposed on the qualities and compositions of the products sold and imported. Environmental legislation also requires that wells, facility sites and other properties associated with the company’s operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. In addition, certain types of operations, including exploration and development projects and significant changes to certain existing projects, may require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Compliance with environmental legislation can require significant expenditures and failure to comply with environmental legislation may result in the imposition of fines and penalties and liability for clean up costs and damages. The company cannot assure that the costs of complying with environmental legislation in the future will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. The company anticipates that changes in environmental legislation may require, among other things, reductions in emissions to the air from its operations and result in increased capital expenditures. Future changes in environmental legislation could occur and result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, and increased capital expenditures and operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations. Climate Change The Government of Canada has published a Notice of Intent to regulate emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and other emissions commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” from various industrial activities, including oil and natural gas exploration and production, petroleum refining, and some chemical manufacturing. The Province of Alberta may also issue regulations under Alberta’s Climate Change and Emissions Management Act limiting greenhouse gas emissions. Other provinces may also issue regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions. Mandatory emissions limits may result in increased operating costs and capital expenditures for oil and natural gas producers, refiners and chemical manufacturers, and also may reduce demand for the company’s products, possibly adversely affecting the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. However, while the government has outlined broad guidelines of a possible regulatory framework, it has not determined what specific measures it might impose on companies. Consequently attempts to assess the magnitude of any impact on the company can only be speculative. Other Regulatory Risk The company is subject to a wide range of legislation and regulation governing its operations over which it has no control. Changes may affect every aspect of the company’s operations and financial performance. Need to Replace Reserves The company’s future conventional oil, heavy oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore cash flows, are highly dependent upon the company’s success in exploiting its current reserve base and acquiring or discovering additional reserves. Without additions to the company’s reserves through exploration, acquisition or development activities, reserves and production will decline over time as reserves are depleted. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. To the extent cash flows from operations are insufficient to fund capital expenditures and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, the company’s ability to make the necessary capital investments to maintain and expand oil and natural gas reserves will be impaired. In addition, the company may be unable to find and develop or acquire additional reserves to replace oil and natural gas production at acceptable costs. Other Business Risks Exploring for, producing and transporting petroleum substances involve many risks, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to mitigate. These activities are subject to a number of hazards which may result in fires, explosions, spills, blow-outs or other unexpected or dangerous conditions causing personal injury, property damage, environmental damage and interruption of operations. The company’s insurance may not provide adequate coverage in certain unforeseen circumstances. 17 Table of Contents Uncertainty of Reserve Estimates There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond the company’s control. In general, estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flow therefrom are based upon a number of factors and assumptions made as of the date on which the reserve estimates were determined, such as geological and engineering estimates which have inherent uncertainties, the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and future commodity prices and operating costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are, to some degree, uncertain and classifications of reserves are only attempts to define the degree of uncertainty involved. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves, the classification of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net revenues expected therefrom, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues, taxes and development, abandonment and operating expenditures with respect to its reserves will likely vary from such estimates, and such variances could be material. Estimates with respect to reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves, rather than upon actual production history. Estimates based on these methods generally are less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations, which may be material, in the estimated reserves. Project Factors The company’s results depend on its ability to develop and operate major projects and facilities as planned. The company’s results will, therefore, be affected by events or conditions that affect the advancement, operation, cost or results of such projects or facilities. These risks include the company’s ability to obtain the necessary environmental and other regulatory approvals; changes in resources and operating costs including the availability and cost of materials, equipment and qualified personnel; the impact of general economic, business and market conditions; and the occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties. Market Risk Factors See Item 7A for a discussion of the impact of market risks and other uncertainties. 