Item 1A. Risk factors Volatility of oil and natural gas prices The company’s results of operations and financial condition are dependent on the prices it receives for its oil and natural gas production. Crude oil and natural gas prices are determined by global and North American markets and are subject to changing supply and demand conditions. These can be influenced by a wide range of factors including economic conditions, international political developments and weather. Disruptions to pipelines linking production to markets may reduce the price for that production or lead to curtailment of production. In the past, crude oil and natural gas prices have been volatile, and the company expects that volatility to continue. Any material decline in oil or natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on the company’s operations, financial condition, proven reserves and the amount spent to develop oil and natural gas reserves. A significant portion of the company’s production is bitumen. The market prices for bitumen differ from the established market indices for light and medium grades of oil principally due to the higher transportation and refining costs associated with bitumen and limited refining capacity capable of processing bitumen. As a result, the price received for bitumen is generally lower than the price for medium and light oil. Future differentials are uncertain and increases in the bitumen differentials could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business. Industry crude oil and natural gas commodity prices and petroleum and chemical product prices are commonly benchmarked in U.S. dollars. The majority of Imperial’s sales and purchases are related to these industry U.S. dollar benchmarks. As the company records and reports its financial results in Canadian dollars, to the extent that the Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuates, the company’s earnings will be affected. The company does not use derivative instruments to offset exposures associated with hydrocarbon prices, currency exchange rates and interest rates that arise from existing assets, liabilities and transactions. The company does not engage in speculative derivative activities nor does it use derivatives with leveraged features. Competitive factors The oil and gas industry is highly competitive, particularly in the following areas: searching for and developing new sources of supply; constructing and operating crude oil, natural gas and refined products pipelines and facilities; and the refining, distribution and marketing of petroleum products and chemicals. The company’s competitors include major integrated oil and gas companies and numerous other independent oil and gas companies. The petroleum industry also competes with other industries in supplying energy, fuel and related products to customers. Competitive forces may result in shortages of prospects to drill, services to carry out exploration, development or operating activities and infrastructure to produce and transport production. It may also result in an oversupply of crude oil, natural gas, petroleum products and chemicals. Each of these factors could have a negative impact on costs and prices and, therefore, the company’s financial results. 17 Table of Contents Environmental risks All phases of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of Canadian federal, provincial and municipal laws and regulations, as well as international conventions (collectively, “environmental legislation”). Environmental legislation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances to the environment. As well, environmental regulations are imposed on the qualities and compositions of the products sold and imported. Environmental legislation also requires that wells, facility sites and other properties associated with the company’s operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. In addition, certain types of operations, including exploration and development projects and significant changes to certain existing projects, may require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Compliance with environmental legislation can require significant expenditures and failure to comply with environmental legislation may result in the imposition of fines and penalties and liability for clean up costs and damages. The company cannot assure that the costs of complying with environmental legislation in the future will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. The company anticipates that changes in environmental legislation may require, among other things, reductions in emissions to the air from its operations and result in increased capital expenditures. Future changes in environmental legislation could occur and result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, and increased capital expenditures and operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations. The company’s activities in deep water oil and gas exploration are limited. However, there are operational risks inherent in oil and gas exploration and production activities, as well as the potential to incur substantial financial liabilities if those risks are not effectively managed. The ability to insure such risks is limited by the capacity of the applicable insurance markets, which may not be sufficient to cover the likely cost of a major adverse operating event such as a deepwater well blowout. Accordingly, the company’s primary focus is on prevention, including through its rigorous operations integrity management system. The company’s future results will depend on the continued effectiveness of these efforts. Climate change In April 2007, the Government of Canada announced its intent to introduce a set of regulations to limit emissions of greenhouse gas and air pollutants from major industrial facilities in Canada, although the details of the regulations have not been finalized. In the fall of 2009, the Government further expressed its intent that Canadian policy in this area be aligned with that of the U.S., which also remains under development. Consequently, attempts to assess the impact on the company are premature. The company will continue to monitor the development of legal requirements in this area. In the Province of Alberta, regulations governing greenhouse gas emissions from large industrial facilities came into effect July 1, 2007. These regulations cover industrial facilities emitting more than 100,000 tonnes (carbon dioxide equivalent) of greenhouse gas emissions annually and require a reduction by 12 percent in the greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production from each facility’s average annual intensity compared with the period 2003 through 2005. Allowed compliance measures include participation in an Alberta emission-trading system or payment (at a rate of $15 per excess tonne of emissions) to Alberta’s Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund. Impact on the overall operations of the company has not been material. The Province of British Columbia introduced a carbon tax in 2008 at an initial rate of $10 per tonne of carbon dioxide and applicable to purchases of hydrocarbon fuels and emissions of greenhouse gases. The applicable tax rate was increased to $25 in 2011, and a further increase of $5 per tonne to a level of $30 per tonne is planned in 2012. It is the current policy of the Government of British Columbia to offset revenues from this tax by reductions in corporate and personal income taxes. Impacts on the company and its operations have not been and are not expected to be material. The Province of Quebec announced in 2011 that it would regulate greenhouse gas emissions from industrial facilities starting in 2012 and from transportation sources in 2015, with a cap-and-trade system. There are no company operations affected by the regulations for industrial facilities. As there are currently limited details on the planned inclusion of the transportation sources in the cap-and-trade system, attempts to assess the impact of these plans on the company are premature. 18 Table of Contents The Province of Ontario has passed legislation authorizing the issuing of regulations for the creation of a provincial cap-and-trade system controlling greenhouse gas emissions. However, details on such possible regulations have not been provided and consequently attempts to assess any impacts on the company are premature. The Province of British Columbia has introduced Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) regulations requiring suppliers of transportation fuels to report the carbon intensity of fuels sold in British Columbia, and beginning in 2013 to reduce the carbon intensity by an increasing amount over a 10-year period. California has introduced similar requirements and some other U.S. states are considering comparable measures. Such measures in California and other U.S. states may have implications for the company’s marketing of oil sands production, but the impact cannot be determined at this time. The company’s marketing in British Columbia will not be significantly impacted in the early years of the LCFS regulations. The U.S. Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 precludes agencies of the U.S. Federal Government from procuring motive fuels from non-conventional petroleum sources that have lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions greater than equivalent conventional fuel. To date, sales of the company’s oil sands production have not been affected by this Act. Further federal or provincial legislation or regulation controlling greenhouse gas emissions could occur and result in increased capital expenditures and operating costs, affect demand and have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations, but any potential impact cannot be estimated at this time. Other regulatory risk The company is subject to a wide range of legislation and regulation governing its operations and industry transportation infrastructure, over which it has no control. Changes may affect every aspect of the company’s operations and financial performance. In addition, the company’s longer-term development plans may be adversely affected if, for regulatory or other reasons, necessary additional transportation infrastructure is not added in a timely fashion. Need to replace reserves The company’s future liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore cash flows, are highly dependent upon the company’s success in exploiting its current reserve base and acquiring or discovering additional reserves. Without additions to the company’s reserves through exploration, acquisition or development activities, reserves and production will decline over time as reserves are depleted. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. To the extent cash flows from operations are insufficient to fund capital expenditures and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, the company’s ability to make the necessary capital investments to maintain and expand oil and natural gas reserves will be impaired. In addition, the company may be unable to find and develop or acquire additional reserves to replace oil and natural gas production at acceptable costs. Other business risks Exploring for, producing and transporting petroleum substances involve many risks, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to mitigate. These activities are subject to a number of hazards, which may result in fires, explosions, spills, blow-outs or other unexpected or dangerous conditions causing personal injury, property damage, environmental damage and interruption of operations. The company’s insurance may not provide adequate coverage in certain unforeseen circumstances. Business risks also include the risk of cyber security breaches. If management’s systems for protecting against cyber security risk prove not to be sufficient, the company could be adversely affected such as by having its business systems compromised, its proprietary information altered, lost or stolen, or its business operations disrupted. 19 Table of Contents Uncertainty of reserve estimates There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond the company’s control. In general, estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flow are based upon a number of factors and assumptions made as of the date on which the reserve estimates were determined, such as geological and engineering estimates which have inherent uncertainties, the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and future commodity prices and operating costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are, to some degree, uncertain and classifications of reserves are only attempts to define the degree of uncertainty involved. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves, the classification of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net revenues expected therefrom, prepared by different reserves evaluators or by the same evaluators at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues, taxes, and development, abandonment and operating expenditures with respect to reserves will likely vary from such estimates, and such variances could be material. Estimates with respect to reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves, rather than upon actual production history. Estimates based on these methods generally are less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations, which may be material, in the estimated reserves. Project factors The company’s results depend on its ability to develop and operate major projects and facilities as planned. The company’s results will, therefore, be affected by events or conditions that affect the advancement, operation, cost or results of such projects or facilities. These risks include the company’s ability to obtain the necessary environmental and other regulatory approvals; changes in resources and operating costs including the availability and cost of materials, equipment and qualified personnel; the impact of general economic, business and market conditions; and the occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties. Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments Not applicable. 