Item 1A. Risk factors Volatility of oil and natural gas prices The company’s results of operations and financial condition are dependent on the prices it receives for its oil and natural gas production. Crude oil and natural gas prices are determined by global and North American markets and are subject to changing supply and demand conditions. These can be influenced by a wide range of factors including economic conditions, international political developments and weather. Disruptions to pipelines linking production to markets may reduce the price for that production or lead to curtailment of production. In the past, crude oil and natural gas prices have been volatile, and the company expects that volatility to continue. Any material decline in oil or natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on the company’s operations, financial condition, proved reserves and the amount spent to develop oil and natural gas reserves. A significant portion of the company’s production is bitumen. The market prices for bitumen differ from the established market indices for light and medium grades of oil principally due to the higher transportation and refining costs associated with bitumen and limited refining capacity capable of processing bitumen. Bitumen may also be subject to limits on transportation capacity to markets to a larger extent than light crude oil. As a result, the price received for bitumen is generally lower than the price for medium and light oil. Future differentials are uncertain and increases in the bitumen differentials could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business. Industry crude oil and natural gas commodity prices and petroleum and chemical product prices are commonly benchmarked in U.S. dollars. The majority of Imperial’s sales and purchases are related to these industry U.S. dollar benchmarks. As the company records and reports its financial results in Canadian dollars, to the extent that the Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuates, the company’s earnings will be affected. The company does not use derivative instruments to offset exposures associated with hydrocarbon prices, currency exchange rates and interest rates that arise from existing assets, liabilities and transactions. The company does not engage in speculative derivative activities nor does it use derivatives with leveraged features. Competitive factors The oil and gas industry is highly competitive, particularly in the following areas: searching for and developing new sources of supply; constructing and operating crude oil, natural gas and refined products pipelines and facilities; and the refining, distribution and marketing of petroleum products and chemicals. The company’s competitors include major integrated oil and gas companies and numerous other independent oil and gas companies. The petroleum industry also competes with other industries in supplying energy, fuel and related products to customers. Competitive forces may result in shortages of prospects to drill, services to carry out exploration, development or operating activities and infrastructure to produce and transport production. It may also result in an oversupply of crude oil, natural gas, petroleum products and chemicals. Each of these factors could have a negative impact on costs and prices and, therefore, the company’s financial results. Environmental risks All phases of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of Canadian federal, provincial and municipal laws and regulations, as well as international conventions (collectively, “environmental legislation”). Environmental legislation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances to the environment. As well, environmental regulations are imposed on the qualities and compositions of the products sold and imported. Environmental legislation also requires that wells, facility sites and other properties associated with the company’s operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. In addition, certain types of operations, including exploration and development projects and significant changes to certain existing projects, may require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Compliance with environmental legislation can require significant expenditures and failure to comply with environmental legislation may result in the imposition of fines and penalties and liability for clean-up costs and damages. The costs of complying with environmental legislation 17 Table of Contents in the future could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations. The company anticipates that changes in environmental legislation may require, among other things, reductions in emissions to the air from its operations and result in increased capital expenditures. Changes in environmental regulations or other laws (including changes in laws related to hydraulic fracturing) may increase our cost of compliance or reduce or delay available business opportunities. Future changes in environmental legislation could occur and result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, and increased capital expenditures and operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations. There are operational risks inherent in oil and gas exploration and production activities, as well as the potential to incur substantial financial liabilities if those risks are not effectively managed. The ability to insure such risks is limited by the capacity of the applicable insurance markets, which may not be sufficient to cover the likely cost of a major adverse operating event. Accordingly, the company’s primary focus is on prevention, including through its rigorous operations integrity management system. The company’s future results will depend on the continued effectiveness of these efforts. Climate change The Government of Canada has confirmed its intent to introduce a set of regulations to limit emissions of greenhouse gas and air pollutants from major industrial facilities in Canada and to align Canadian policy in this area with that of the U.S. As these policies and potential regulations remain under development, attempts to assess the impact on the company are premature. In the Province of Alberta, regulations governing greenhouse gas emissions from large industrial facilities came into effect in 2007. The regulation requires a reduction by 12 percent in the greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production from each facility’s average annual intensity. Allowed compliance measures include participation in an Alberta emission-trading system or payment to Alberta’s Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund. The impact on the company has not been material. The Province of British Columbia has established a carbon tax, applicable to purchases of hydrocarbon fuels and emissions of greenhouse gases. The impact on the company has not been material. The Province of Quebec has implemented a cap-and-trade system which will regulate greenhouse gas emissions from transportation and heating sources in 2015. The impact on the company is not anticipated to be material. The Province of Ontario has passed legislation authorizing the issuing of regulations for the creation of a provincial cap-and-trade system controlling greenhouse gas emissions. Details on such possible regulations have not been issued so an assessment of impacts is premature. The Province of British Columbia’s Renewable and Low Carbon Fuel Requirement Regulation requires suppliers of transportation fuels to reduce the carbon intensity of fuels sold in the province by an increasing amount over time. To date, there has not been a significant impact to the company’s operations. Further federal, provincial or international legislation or regulation controlling greenhouse gas emissions could occur. Such requirements could make our products more expensive; lengthen project implementation times; reduce demand for hydrocarbons and shift hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower-carbon sources, such as natural gas; and may result in increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Such requirements may have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations, but this cannot be estimated at this time. Other regulatory risk The company is subject to a wide range of legislation and regulation governing its operations and industry transportation infrastructure, over which it has no control. Changes may affect every aspect of the company’s operations and financial performance. In addition, the company’s longer-term development plans may be adversely affected if, for regulatory or other reasons, necessary additional transportation infrastructure is not added in a timely fashion. Need to replace reserves The company’s future liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore cash flows, are highly dependent upon the company’s success in exploiting its current reserve base and acquiring or discovering additional reserves. Without additions to the company’s reserves through exploration, 18 Table of Contents acquisition or development activities, reserves and production will decline over time as reserves are depleted. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. To the extent cash flows from operations are insufficient to fund capital expenditures and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, the company’s ability to make the necessary capital investments to maintain and expand oil and natural gas reserves will be impaired. In addition, the company may be unable to find and develop or acquire additional reserves to replace oil and natural gas production at acceptable costs. Research and development To maintain our competitive position, especially in light of the technological nature of our business and the need for continuous efficiency improvement, the research and development organizations of the company and ExxonMobil, with whom the company conducts shared research, must be successful and able to adapt to a changing market and policy environment. Safety, business controls and environmental risk management The scope and nature of the company’s operations present a variety of significant hazards and risks, including operational hazards and risks such as explosions, fires, pipeline ruptures, crude oil spills, severe weather, and geological events. Our operations are also subject to the additional hazards of pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. Our results depend on management’s ability to minimize these inherent risks, to control effectively our business activities and to minimize the potential for human error. We apply rigorous management systems and continuous focus to workplace safety and to avoiding spills or other adverse environmental events. For example, we work to minimize spills through a combined program of effective operations integrity management, ongoing upgrades, key equipment replacements, and comprehensive inspection and surveillance. We also maintain a disciplined framework of internal controls and apply a controls management system for monitoring compliance with this framework. Substantial liabilities and other adverse impacts could result if our management systems and controls do not function as intended. The company’s insurance may not provide adequate coverage in certain unforeseen circumstances. Operational efficiency An important component of the company’s competitive performance, especially given the commodity-based nature of many of our business segments, is our ability to operate efficiently, including our ability to manage expenses and improve production yields on an ongoing basis. This requires continuous management focus, including technology improvements, cost control, productivity enhancements, regular reappraisal of our asset portfolio, and the recruitment, development and retention of high caliber employees. Preparedness The company’s operations may be disrupted by severe weather events, natural disasters, human error, and similar events. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impacts of these events depends in part upon the effectiveness of our rigorous disaster preparedness and response planning, as well as business continuity planning. Other business risks The marketability of the company’s production is subject in part to the risks associated with transporting, processing and storing crude oil, natural gas and other related products. The availability, proximity, and capacity of pipeline facilities and railcars could negatively impact our ability to produce at capacity levels. Transportation disruptions could adversely affect commodity prices, the company’s price realizations, refining operations and sales volumes, or limit our ability to deliver production to market. Other factors that may affect the demand for oil, gas and petrochemicals, and therefore impact the company’s results, include technological improvements in energy efficiency; seasonal weather patterns, which affect the demand for energy associated with heating and cooling; increased competitiveness of alternative energy sources; and changes in technology or consumer preferences that alter fuels choices, such as toward alternative fueled vehicles. Business risks also include the risk of cyber security breaches. If management’s systems for protecting against cyber security risk prove not to be sufficient, the company could be adversely affected such as by having its business systems compromised, its proprietary information altered, lost or stolen, or its business operations disrupted. 19 Table of Contents Uncertainty of reserve estimates There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond the company’s control. In general, estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flow are based upon a number of factors and assumptions made as of the date on which the reserve estimates were determined, such as geological and engineering estimates which have inherent uncertainties, the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and future commodity prices and operating costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are, to some degree, uncertain and classifications of reserves are only attempts to define the degree of uncertainty involved. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves, the classification of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net revenues expected therefrom, prepared by different reserves evaluators or by the same evaluators at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues, taxes, and development, abandonment and operating expenditures with respect to reserves will likely vary from such estimates, and such variances could be material. Estimates with respect to reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves, rather than upon actual production history. Estimates based on these methods generally are less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations, which may be material, in the estimated reserves. Project factors The company’s results depend on its ability to develop and operate major projects and facilities as planned. The company’s results will, therefore, be affected by events or conditions that affect the advancement, operation, cost or results of such projects or facilities. These risks include the company’s ability to obtain the necessary environmental and other regulatory approvals; changes in resources and operating costs including the availability and cost of materials, equipment and qualified personnel; the impact of general economic, business and market conditions; and the occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties. Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments None. 