Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the SEC, before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. Under these circumstances, the trading prices of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Our business is dependent on demand for construction, renovation and repair of residential and commercial buildings. Such demand is influenced by changes in the overall condition of the U. S. economy including interest rates, job formation, consumer confidence and other important factors. The building products industry is cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, including, in particular, conditions in the residential and commercial construction markets. Prices for our products and services are affected by overall supply and demand in the market for our products and for our competitors’ products. In particular, market prices of building products historically have been volatile and cyclical, and we, like other companies, may have limited ability to control the timing and amount of pricing changes for our products. Future economic downturns could result in prolonged periods of weak demand or excess supply which could negatively affect our revenues and margins and adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and operating results. The markets we serve, principally the residential housing and commercial construction markets, are significantly affected by the movement of interest rates. Significantly higher interest rates or lack of available credit could weaken demand for construction activities, which could lower demand for the Company’s products. Other factors beyond our control may also impact demand for the Company’s products, including, but not limited to new housing starts, which are influenced by availability of financing, housing affordability, demographic trends, employment levels, unforeseen inflationary pressures and consumer confidence. Since our operations occur in a variety of geographic markets in the Southeast United States, our businesses are subject to the economic conditions in each such geographic market. General economic downturns or localized downturns in the regions where we have operations could have a material adverse effect on our bus iness, financial condition and operating results. During the second quarter of 2006, residential construction demand began to be impacted by a number of factors, including higher interest rates, an increase in available inventory of unsold new and existing homes, and homebuilders reporting lower order rates for new homes. As a consequence, residential construction activity, and applications for building permits for new residential units, considered a strong sign for future construction activity, began to decline sharply in Florida in the last six months of 2006. The significant decline in building permits continued in the Florida market through 2008 which indicates that future residential construction activity and demand for our products will remain weak during 2009 in such market. The depth and duration of the decline in construction activity cannot be predicted. Construction activity in the Company’s markets located in the Gulf Coast Trade area continued to benefit from rebuilding act ivities in areas impacted by Hurricane Katrina in 2007 and are expected to remain stronger than the Florida markets in 2009. In addition, the current economic climate in the United States including the credit crisis within and outside the financial services industry has and is expected to continue to reduce credit available to contractors and construction development companies for an extended period of time. The inability of our customers to obtain credit for construction projects would negatively impact our sales and results of operations. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued its report dated March 27, 2009 in connection with the audit of our financial statements as of December 31, 2008 that included an explanatory paragraph describing the existence of conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2008 have been prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern. We have and are taking several responsive steps, as set forth in note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in the Form 10-K, that management hopes will be sufficient to allow the Company to continue as a going concern and to improve our operating results and financial 9 condition. There can be no assurance that such actions will be effective. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Additional adverse changes in economic conditions where we conduct our operations and where prospective customers live could further reduce the demand for our products and, as a result, could further reduce our results of operations and continue to adversely affect our financial condition. Adverse changes in national, regional and local economic conditions where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our products live, have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence, interest rates and population growth, or an oversupply of already constructed homes for sale may further reduce demand and depress prices for our products. These adverse economic conditions could further reduce our results of operations and continue to adversely affect our financial condition. If we lost our existing financing arrangements and are otherwise not able to obtain suitable replacement financing, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business and results of operations depend substantially on our ability to obtain financing for our operations. We are dependent on our existing revolving line of credit which currently matures in June 2009. The availability of financing from banks and the public debt markets has declined significantly. Due to the deterioration of the credit markets and the uncertainties that exist in the economy and for building supply companies in general, we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain or replace our existing financing or find additional sources of financing. If we are not able to retain or replace our existing credit facility when it becomes due, our costs for borrowings will likely increase and our revenues may decrease, or we could be precluded from continuing our operations at current levels. Increases in interest rates can make it more difficult and/or expensive for us to obtain the funds we need to operate our business. The amount of interest we incur on our revolving line of credit facility fluctuates based on changes in short-term interest rates and the amount of borrowings we incur. Increases in interest rates generally could increase the interest rates we must pay on our outstanding debt obligations. We have substantial fixed costs, and as a result, our operating income is sensitive to changes in our net sales. Declines in net sales would adversely affect operating results. A significant portion of our expenses are fixed and do not fluctuate with variations in net sales. A decline in net sales is expected to cause a greater proportional decline in operating income. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2008, sales and operating income decreased significantly compared to 2007. The reduction in operating income is attributable to primarily the decrease in sales and gross margin. A continuing reduction in net sales would have an unfavorable effect on future operating income due to the negative operating leverage. Our business is subject to intense competition. We experience competition for our products and services from many distributors and manufacturers, including manufacturers that distribute a significant portion of their products through their own distribution organizations. Competition within any given geographic market is based on many factors, including, but not limited to customer classification, product line, product availability, customer service, technical product knowledge and expertise as to application and usage, price, quality and availability of credit. In addition, the barriers to entry for local competitors are relatively low. We may not be able to maintain our costs at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. We may not be successful in responding effectively to competitive pressures, particularly from competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. Our operating results are affected by fluctuations in our costs and the availability of raw materials and building material products from our vendors. Prices of raw materials and building material products are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in product prices may affect sales as well as margins due to a limited ability to pass on short-term price changes. We do not use derivative financial instruments to hedge commodity price changes. 10 Generally, our products are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. However, from time to time we may experience shortages of building products as a result of unexpected demand or production difficulties as well as transportation limitations. Also, we purchase products from many vendors under relationships that are terminable without cause or written notice which is customary in our industry. Any disruption in our sources of supply for raw materials or building materials could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. If shortages or disruptions in our supply of products from our vendors were to become severe and occur on a more frequent basis in the future, there could be a short-term adverse effect on our operations and a long-term adverse effect on our customer relationships and reputation if we were unable to obtain a sufficient allocation of products from other ve ndors. In addition, we have strategic relationships with several key vendors. In the event we are unable to maintain these relationships, we could lose some of the competitive advantages that those relationships offer us, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in the first six months of 2006, we experienced industry shortages of gypsum wallboard which is purchased for resale at certain of its distribution facilities. Due to a lack of supply of gypsum wallboard to fully meet customer demand, we believe sales were lost or delayed at several of our distribution facilities during that six-month period. However, subsequent to the second quarter of 2006, the significant decline in residential construction activity suffered throughout the United States reduced industry shortages of gypsum wallboard and allowed for product availability. We are subject to continuing business risk related to insurance coverage. We have been unable to obtain product liability coverage for certain types of product applications since March 15, 2004. Losses from claims in excess of insurance coverage, or for matters not insured, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We carry general liability, comprehensive property damage, workers’ compensation and other insurance coverages for the protection of our assets and operations. There can be no assurance, however, that the coverage limits of such policies will be adequate to cover losses and expenses for lawsuits brought or which may be brought against us. Effective March 15, 2004, we were unable to renew our product liability coverage with coverage for alleged damages caused to building structures because of moisture intrusion due to the use of products formerly manufactured by our subsidiary, DFH, for exterior insulation finish wall systems (“EIFS”), on single and multi-family residences, as well as commercial buildings. While no uninsured lawsuits have been filed against DFH to date, there can be no assurance that this fact will continue in the future. Losses and expenses in excess of insurance coverage, as well as for any uninsured laws uits for EIFS product liability claims in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Future litigation could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The nature of our business exposes us to various litigation matters including product liability claims, employment matters, environmental matters, tort claims and contract disputes. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of existing or future litigation. Although we accrue liabilities as we believe warranted, the amounts we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we actually pay due to the inherent uncertainties and shortcomings in the estimation process. Future litigation costs, settlements or judgments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our senior management team and key personnel for their expertise and leadership. The loss of any member of our senior management could adversely affect our operations. We believe that our ability to implement our business strategy and our continued success will largely depend upon the efforts, skills, abilities and judgment of our executive management team. Our success also depends upon our ability to recruit and retain highly knowledgeable and skilled sales, marketing, operations and other senior managers. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining these employees or in managing our growth successfully, which may in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Because our business is working capital intensive, we rely on our ability to manage our product purchasing and customer credit policies. If we are not successful in managing our working capital, our financial condition would be adversely affected. Our operations are working capital intensive, and our levels of inventories, accounts receivable and accounts payable are significant components of our net asset base. We manage our inventories and accounts payable through our purchasing policies and our accounts receivable through our customer credit and collection policies. The large majority of our net sales are credit sales through open unsecured accounts with our customers. Our customers’ 11 ability to pay may depend on the economic strength of the construction industry and regional economies. If we fail to adequately manage our product purchasing or customer credit policies, our working capital and financial condition may be adversely affected. We require a significant amount of liquidity to service our debt, fund operations and meet cash requirements of capital expenditures. We require a significant amount of liquidity to service our indebtedness and fund operations and capital expenditures. Our ability to fund our operations, capital expenditures and other corporate expenses, including repayment of our indebtedness, depends on our ability to generate cash through future operating performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to fund our needs. Any curtailment of operations, reduction or delay in planned capital expenditures may materially and adversely affect our future revenue prospects. In addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to raise additional equity capital, restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to meet the financial covenants under our line of credit, the lender could elect to accelerate the repayment of the outstanding balance and, in that event, we would be forced to seek alternate sources of financing. We are party to a $9,000,000 asset-based borrowing agreement which contains a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio that is required if our excess borrowing availability, as defined in the agreement, is less than $900,000. The Company would violate this loan covenant if it was applicable. At December 31, 2008, our excess borrowing availability was approximately $1,928,000 and at March 24, 2009 it was approximately $1,781,000. If the Company’s operations do not improve, without raising additional financing, the Company’s borrowing availability under the line of credit will continue to decrease. This agreement matures June 1, 2009. The Company has requested a one year extension of maturity. As a result of the risks we face in our business and current economic conditions, we can give no assurance that we will be able to achieve sufficient financial results necessary to satisfy this covenant if it were required to be tested. If we were unable to maintain excess borrowing availability of more than $900,000 and we were unable to comply with the financial covenant, we would be in default and our lender would have the right, but not the obligation, to terminate the loan commitment and accelerate the entire amount outstanding under the line of credit. The lender could also foreclose on our assets that secure our line of credit, In that event, we would be forced to seek alternative sources of financing which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our Common Stock may not meet minimum listing requirements to remain on the NASDAQ Capital Market in the future. Our Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “IPII.” Rule 4130 of the NASDAQ Stock Market sets forth certain criteria in order for securities, including our common stock, to continue to qualify for listing in the NASDAQ Capital Markets. These criteria include among other things, (a) the requirement to maintain a minimum bid price per share of $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days; and (b) either (i) stockholder’s equity of $2.5 million; (ii) market value of listed securities of $35 million; or (iii) net income from continued operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years. The bid price of our common stock has recently been under $1.00 per share and the aggregate market value of our common stock is less than $35 million. The price for our common stock has been adversely affected by a number of factors, including operating results, conditions in the construction industry and financial markets, among many other items, some of which may be unrelated to our performance, or outside our control. Due to the recent turmoil in the global stock markets, on October 16, 2008, NASDAQ suspended the enforcement of the minimum per share bid price requirement as well as the requirement to maintain the minimum market value of publically held shares until July 20, 2009 as to all NASDAQ listed securities. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to meet the minimum per share bid price requirement following reinstatement on July 20, 2009 of such criteria by NASDAQ, or the other continued listing requir ements, in order for our common stock to remain listed on NASDAQ. We would have a period of time following any determination that the common stock does not satisfy such requirements (180 days following notification of such failure if it is for the failure to maintain the minimum bid 12 price). If our common stock cannot thereafter satisfy the minimum listing requirements with NASDAQ, our common stock could be delisted. Such delisting may cause the price of our common stock to decline further and make it more difficult for investors to trade our common stock. We are dependent on our information systems. Delays in the implementation of our new computer system, or interruptions in the proper functioning of our information system, could disrupt our operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We previously expected the implementation of our new computer system to be completed by December 31, 2008. Due to a shift in priorities, closure of facilities and reduced scope of operations, in combination with the lack of resources during 2008, we postponed the remainder of the implementation. Delays in the successful implementation of the new systems or their failure to meet our expectations could result in adverse consequences, including disruption of operations or unanticipated increases in costs. In addition, the proper functioning of our information systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Although we protect our information systems through physical and logistical safeguards, these information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, telecommunications failures, physical or internet access intrusions and similar events. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavai lable, we would have to accomplish certain functions manually, which could temporarily affect our ability to process orders, identify business opportunities, maintain proper levels of inventories, bill customers or pay vendors. The seasonal nature of our operations may adversely affect our quarterly financial results. Fluctuations in our quarterly results may also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our operating results are somewhat seasonal. Historically, we have experienced lower operating results in the first and fourth quarters than in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year. Seasonal weather conditions, such as cold or wet weather, can also delay construction projects, further contributing to quarterly fluctuation in our operating results. If our financial results for a quarter fall below investors’ expectations, the market price of our common stock may decline, perhaps significantly. Implementation of our growth strategy has certain risks. If we are unable to effectively implement or manage our growth strategy, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely effected. As part of our growth strategy, we may open new facilities, expand existing facilities, add additional product lines, build additional plants, or acquire businesses that complement our existing business. There are certain risks inherent in such growth strategy that could adversely affect our ability to achieve these objectives including, but not limited to the following: · The potential disruption of our business; · The uncertainty that new product lines will generate anticipated sales; · The uncertainty that a new or acquired business will achieve anticipated operating results; · The diversion of resources and management’s time; · The difficulty of managing the operations of a larger company; · The risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprise; · The difficulty of competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having greater financial resources than we have; · The difficulty of, and costs associated with, integration of acquired operations and personnel into our existing business; and · Possible departures of key personnel from any acquired business. Pursuing our growth strategy may be required for us to remain competitive, but we may not be able to complete any such transactions or obtain financing, if necessary, for such transactions on favorable terms or at all. Future transactions may not improve the competitive position and business prospects as anticipated, and could reduce sales or profit margins, and, therefore, adversely affect our operating results and financial condition if they are not successful. 13 We are subject to environmental and safety regulations that are subject to change. Such regulations could cause us to make modifications to how we manufacture and distribute our products. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, including laws regulating air emissions, wastewater discharges, the management and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. If we were to violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could incur fines, penalties or other sanctions. In addition, we could be held responsible for costs and damages arising from any contamination at our past or present facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials. Environmental laws tend to become more stringent over time, and we could incur significant expenses in the future relating to compliance with future environmental laws. In addition, the price and availability of certain of the raw materials that we use may vary in the future as a result of environmental laws and regulation affecting certain of our suppliers. An increase in the price of our raw materials, a decline in their availability or future costs relating to our compliance with environmental laws could negatively affect our operating margins or result in reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our financial condition. Natural disasters could negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. Future disasters caused by earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or other similar events could have a significant adverse effect on the general economic and market conditions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, natural catastrophes may cause our operating results to fluctuate from time to time due to increased demand or interruption of operations. Actual and perceived vulnerabilities as a result of terrorist activities and armed conflict may adversely impact consumer confidence and our business. Instability in the economy and financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may impact consumer confidence and result in a decrease in residential and commercial construction in our markets. Terrorist attacks may also directly impact our ability to maintain operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Dividends are payable at the discretion of our Board of Directors. The failure to declare and pay dividends may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors, after taking into account various factors, including earnings, capital requirements and surplus, financial position, contractual restrictions and other relevant business considerations. In the future, we may become a party to debt instruments or agreements that further restrict our ability to pay dividends. Certain anti-takeover provisions may make our stock less attractive to investors. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, as well as Delaware law applicable to our company contain provisions which may delay or prevent other companies from completing transactions in which shareholders may receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-prevailing market prices. These provisions may also limit shareholders’ ability to approve transactions they may otherwise believe are in their best interests. For example, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes of directors and as such is elected for staggered three-year terms, making it difficult for another company to succeed in proxy contests to obtain control of the Board. The certificate of incorporation also permits the Board of Directors to issue, at any time without shareholder approval, shares of preferred stock, with such terms it may determine in the Board’s discretion. These provisions and others could delay, prevent or allow the Board of Di rectors to resist an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of the shareholders favor such a transaction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 