ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to many risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and the related notes, before you decide whether to invest in our common stock. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed by any of the following risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Prescient Merger The Company may not be able to fully realize the benefits of the Prescient Merger. The Company may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of the Prescient Merger. The Prescient Merger combined two companies that historically operated as independent companies. The combined company is devoting significant management attention and resources to integrating its business practices and operations, and realizing the benefits of the Prescient Merger. Potential difficulties the combined company may encounter include: ● The inability of the combined company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated with the Prescient Merger; ● Lost sales and clients as a result of certain clients of either of the two companies who decide not to do business with the combined company; ● Complexities associated with managing the combined businesses; ● Integrating personnel from different corporate cultures while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and services; ● Potential unknown liabilities and increased costs associated with the Prescient Merger; and ● Loss of key personnel, many of whom have proprietary information. The Company has incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the Prescient Merger, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to pay such indebtedness when it comes due. As a result of consummation of the Prescient Merger, the Company’s total liabilities have increased to approximately $12.5 million at June 30, 2009, from approximately $3.6 million at June 30, 2008. Approximately $2.9 million of such indebtedness is due and payable on or before June 30, 2010 plus applicable interest. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to satisfy such additional liabilities when the same become due and payable. -9- Table of Contents Risks Related to the Company The Company has incurred losses in the past and there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve profitability in the future. The Company’s marketing strategy emphasizes sales to clients acquired as a result of the Prescient Merger, as well as sales of subscription based services instead of annual licenses. If this marketing strategy fails, revenues and operations will be negatively affected. A reduction in revenues will result in increases in operational losses. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, the Company had a net loss of $4,041,377 and $2,868,179 respectively. There can be no assurance that the Company will reliably or consistently operate profitably during future fiscal years. If the Company does not operate profitably in the future the Company’s current cash resources will be used to fund the Company’s operating losses. If this were to continue, in order to continue with the Company’s operations, the Company would need to raise additional capital. Continued losses would have an adverse effect on the long term value of the Company’s common stock and an investment in the Company. The Company cannot give any assurance that the Company will ever generate significant revenue or have sustainable profits. The Company liquidity and capital requirements will be difficult to predict, which may adversely affect the Company’s cash position in the future. Historically, the Company has been successful in raising capital when necessary which includes stock issuances, securing loans from its officers, directors, including the CEO and majority stockholder in order to fund its operations in addition to proceeds collected from sales; however, there can be no assurances that it will be able to do so in the future. The Company anticipates that it will have adequate cash resources to fund its operations for at least the next 12 months. Thereafter, its liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous other factors, including the following: · The Company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the Prescient Merger; · The extent to which the Company’s products and services gain market acceptance; · The progress and scope of product evaluations; · The timing and costs of acquisitions and product and services introductions; · The extent of the Company’s ongoing research and development programs; and · The costs of developing marketing and distribution capabilities. If in the future, the Company is required to seek additional financing in order to fund its operations and carry out its business plan, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and there can be no assurance that any such arrangement, if required or otherwise sought, would be available on terms deemed to be commercially acceptable and in the Company’s best interests. -10- Table of Contents Operating results may fluctuate, which makes it difficult to predict future performance. Management expects a portion of the Company’s revenue stream to come from the sale of subscriptions, license sales, maintenance and services charged to new customers, which will fluctuate in amounts because predicting future sales is difficult and involves speculation. In addition, the Company may potentially experience significant fluctuations in future operating results caused by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of its control, including: · Demand for and market acceptance of new products; · Introduction or enhancement of products and services by the Company or its competitors; · Capacity utilization; · Technical difficulties, system downtime; · Fluctuations in data communications and telecommunications costs; · Maintenance subscriber retention; · The timing and magnitude of capital expenditures and requirements; · Costs relating to the expansion or upgrading of operations, facilities, and infrastructure; · Changes in pricing policies and those of competitors; · Composition and duration of product mix including license sales, consulting fees, and the timing of software rollouts; · Changes in regulatory laws and policies, and; · General economic conditions, particularly those related to the information technology industry. Because of the foregoing factors, future operating results may fluctuate. As a result of such fluctuations, it is difficult to predict operating results. Period-to-period comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. In addition, a relatively large portion of the Company’s expenses will be fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to facilities and personnel. Therefore, future operating results will be particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenues because of these and other short-term fixed costs. -11- Table of Contents The Company will need to effectively manage its growth in order to achieve and sustain profitability. The Company’s failure to manage growth effectively could reduce its sales growth and result in continued net losses. To achieve continual and consistent profitable operations on a fiscal year on-going basis, the Company must have significant growth in its revenues from the sale of its products and services. If the Company is able to achieve significant growth in future sales and to expand the scope of the Company’s operations, and its management, financial, and other capabilities and existing procedures and controls could be strained. The Company cannot be certain that it’s existing or any additional capabilities, procedures, systems, or controls will be adequate to support the Company’s operations. The Company may not be able to design, implement, or improve its capabilities, procedures, systems, or controls in a timely and cost-effective manner. Failure to implement, improve and expand the Company’s capabilities, procedures, systems, or controls in an efficient and timely manner could reduce the Company’s sales growth and result in a reduction of profitability or increase of net losses. The Company’s officers and directors have significant control over it, which may lead to conflicts with other stockholders over corporate governance. The Company’s officers and directors, other than the Chief Executive Officer, control approximately 4.8% of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Randall K. Fields, individually, controls 43.64% of the Company’s common stock. Consequently, Mr. Fields, individually, and the Company’s officers and directors, as stockholders acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by the Company’s stockholders, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as mergers or other business combination transactions. The Company’s corporate charter contains authorized, unissued “blank check” preferred stock that can be issued without stockholder approval with the effect of diluting then current stockholder interests. The Company’s certificate of incorporation currently authorizes the issuance of up to 30,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with designations, rights, and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Company’s board of directors. In June 2007, the Company completed the sale of 584,000 shares of its Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. The Company’s board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more additional series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights that could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, the Company’s common stockholders. The issuance of an additional series of preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in control. Because the Company has never paid dividends on its Common Stock, you should exercise caution before making an investment in the Company. The Company has never paid dividends on its common stock and does not anticipate the declaration of any dividends pertaining to its common stock in the foreseeable future. The Company intends to retain earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of the Company’s business. The Company’s board of directors will determine future dividend policy at their sole discretion and future dividends will be contingent upon future earnings, if any, obligations of the stock issued, The Company’s financial condition, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors. Future dividends may also be affected by covenants contained in loan or other financing documents, which may be executed by the Company in the future. Therefore, there can be no assurance that dividends will ever be paid on its common stock. -12- Table of Contents The Company’s business is dependent upon the continued services of the Company’s founder and Chief Executive Officer, Randall K. Fields; should the Company lose the services of Mr. Fields, the Company’s operations will be negatively impacted. The Company’s business is dependent upon the expertise of its founder and Chief Executive Officer, Randall K. Fields. Mr. Fields is essential to the Company’s operations. Accordingly, an investor must rely on Mr. Fields’ management decisions that will continue to control the Company’s business affairs after the offering. The Company currently maintains key man insurance on Mr. Fields’ life in the amount of $10,000,000; however, that coverage would be inadequate to compensate for the loss of his services. The loss of the services of Mr. Fields would have a materially adverse effect upon the Company’s business. If the Company is unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, the Company may be unable to develop, retain or expand the staff necessary to support its operational business needs. The Company’s current and future success depends on its ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate various employees, including skilled software development, technical, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for such employees is intense and the Company may be unable to attract or retain such professionals. If the Company fails to attract and retain these professionals, the Company’s revenues and expansion plans may be negatively impacted. The Company’s officers and directors have limited liability and indemnification rights under the Company’s organizational documents, which may impact its results. The Company’s officers and directors are required to exercise good faith and high integrity in the management of the Company’s affairs. The Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, however, provide, that the officers and directors shall have no liability to the stockholders for losses sustained or liabilities incurred which arise from any transaction in their respective managerial capacities unless they violated their duty of loyalty, did not act in good faith, engaged in intentional misconduct or knowingly violated the law, approved an improper dividend or stock repurchase, or derived an improper benefit from the transaction. As a result, an investor may have a more limited right to action than he would have had if such a provision were not present. The Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws also require it to indemnify the Company’s officers and directors against any losses or liabilities they may incur as a result of the manner in which they operate the Company’s business or conduct the Company’s internal affairs, provided that the officers and directors reasonably believe such actions to be in, or not opposed to, the Company’s best interests, and their conduct does not constitute gross negligence, misconduct or breach of fiduciary obligations. Business Operations Risks If the Company’s marketing strategy fails, its revenues and operations will be negatively affected. The Company plans to concentrate its future sales efforts towards marketing the Company’s applications and services. These applications and services are designed to be highly flexible so that they can work in multiple retail and supplier environments such as grocery stores, convenience stores, quick service restaurants, and route-based delivery environments. There is no assurance that the public will accept the Company’s applications and services in proportion to the Company’s increased marketing of this product line. The Company may face significant competition that may negatively affect demand for its applications and services, including the public’s preference for the Company’s competitors’ new product releases or updates over the Company’s releases or updates. If the Company’s applications and services marketing strategy fails, the Company will need to refocus its marketing strategy to the Company’s other product offerings, which could lead to increased marketing costs, delayed revenue streams, and otherwise negatively affect the Company’s operations. -13- Table of Contents Because the Company’s emphasis is on the sale of subscription based services rather than annual license fees, the Company’s revenues may be negatively affected. Historically, the Company offered applications and related maintenance contracts to new customers for a one-time, non-recurring up front license fee and provided an option for annually renewing their maintenance agreements. As a result of the Prescient Merger, and Prescient’s reliance on subscription based revenue, and the Company’s shift away from offering its solutions for a one-time licensing fee, the Company is now principally offering prospective customers monthly subscription based licensing of its products. As a result, the Company’s customers may now choose to acquire a license to use the software on an Application Solution Provider basis (also referred to as ASP) resulting in monthly charges for use of the Company’s software products and maintenance fees. The Company’s conversion from a strategy of one-time, non-recurring licensing based model to a monthly-based recurring fees based approach is subject to the following risks: · The Company’s customers may prefer one-time fees rather than monthly fees; · Because public awareness pertaining to the Company’s Application Solution Provider services will be delayed until the Company begins its marketing campaign to promote those services, the Company’s revenues may decrease over the short term; and · There may be a threshold level (number of locations) at which the monthly based fee structure may not be economical to the customer, and a request to convert from monthly fees to an annual fee could occur. The Company faces competition from competing and emerging technologies that may affect its profitability. The markets for the Company’s type of software products and that of its competitors are characterized by: · Development of new software, software solutions, or enhancements that are subject to constant change; · Rapidly evolving technological change; and · Unanticipated changes in customer needs. Because these markets are subject to such rapid change, the life cycle of the Company’s products is difficult to predict; accordingly, the Company is subject to the following risks: · Whether or how the Company will respond to technological changes in a timely or cost-effective manner; · Whether the products or technologies developed by the Company’s competitors will render the Company’s products and services obsolete or shorten the life cycle of the Company’s products and services; and · Whether the Company’s products and services will achieve market acceptance. If the Company is unable to adapt to constantly changing markets and to continue to develop new products and technologies to meet the Company’s customers’ needs, the Company’s revenues and profitability will be negatively affected. The Company’s future revenues are dependent upon the successful and timely development and licensing of new and enhanced versions of its products and potential product offerings suitable to the Company’s customer’s needs. If the Company fails to successfully upgrade existing products and develop new products, and those new products do not achieve market acceptance, the Company’s revenues will be negatively impacted. -14- Table of Contents The Company faces risks associated with the loss of maintenance and other revenue. The Company has historically experienced the loss of long term maintenance customers as a result of the reliability of some of its products. Some customers may not see the value in continuing to pay for maintenance that they do not need or use, and in some cases, customers have decided to replace the Company’s applications or maintain the system on their own. The Company continues to focus on these maintenance clients by providing new functionality and applications to meet their business needs. The Company also may lose some maintenance revenue due to consolidation of industries, macroeconomic conditions, or customer operational difficulties that lead to their reduction of size. In addition, future revenues will be negatively impacted if the Company fails to add new maintenance customers that will make additional purchases of the Company’s products and services. The Company faces risks associated with its Supply Chain Profit Link product. Because our Supply Chain Profit Link product was only recently introduced, there are risks associated with it, such as: · It may be difficult for the Company to predict the amount of service and technological resources that will be needed by new SCPL customers, and if the Company underestimates the necessary resources, the quality of its service will be negatively impacted thereby undermining the value of the product to the customer. · The Company lacks the experience with this new product and its market acceptance to accurately predict if it will be a profitable product. · Technological issues between the Company and the customer may be experienced in capturing data, and these technological issues may result in unforeseen conflicts or technological setbacks when implementing the software. This may result in material delays and even result in a termination of the engagement with the customer. · The customer’s experience with SCPL, if negative, may prevent the Company from having an opportunity to sell additional products and services to that customer. · If the customer does not use the product as the Company recommends and fails to implement any needed corrective action(s), it is unlikely that the customer will experience the business benefits from the software and may therefore be hesitant to continue the engagement as well as acquire any additional software products from the Company. · Delays in proceeding with the implementation of the SCPL product by a new customer will negatively affect the Company’s cash flow and its ability to predict cash flow. The Company faces risks associated with proprietary protection of the Company’s software. The Company’s success depends on the Company’s ability to develop and protect existing and new proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. The Company seeks to protect the Company’s software, documentation and other written materials primarily through a combination of patents, trademarks, and copyright laws, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. While the Company has attempted to safeguard and maintain the Company’s proprietary rights, there are no assurances that the Company will be successful in doing so. The Company’s competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Company’s. -15- Table of Contents Despite the Company’s efforts to protect its proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of the Company’s products or obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary. In some types of situations, the Company may rely in part on “shrink wrap” or “point and click” licenses that are not signed by the end user and, therefore, may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products is difficult. While the Company is unable to determine the extent to which piracy of the Company’s software exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as the United States. The Company can offer no assurance that the Company’s means of protecting its proprietary rights will be adequate or that the Company’s competitors will not reverse engineer or independently develop similar technology. The Company incorporates a number of third party software providers’ licensed technologies into its products, the loss of which could prevent sales of the Company’s products or increase the Company’s costs due to more costly substitute products. The Company licenses technologies from third party software providers, and such technologies are incorporated into the Company’s products. The Company anticipates that it will continue to license technologies from third parties in the future. The loss of these technologies or other third-party technologies could prevent sales of the Company’s products and increase the Company’s costs until substitute technologies, if available, are developed or identified, licensed and successfully integrated into the Company’s products. Even if substitute technologies are available, there can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to license these technologies on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The Company may discover software errors in its products that may result in a loss of revenues or injury to the Company’s reputation in the software industry. Non-conformities or bugs (“errors”) may be found from time to time in the Company’s existing, new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of revenues or injury to the Company’s reputation. In the past, the Company has discovered errors in its products and as a result, has experienced delays in the shipment of products. Errors in the Company’s products may be caused by defects in third-party software incorporated into the Company’s products. If so, the Company may not be able to fix these defects without the cooperation of these software providers. Since these defects may not be as significant to the software provider as they are to us, the Company may not receive the rapid cooperation that may be required. The Company may not have the contractual right to access the source code of third-party software, and even if the Company does have access to the code, the Company may not be able to fix the defect. Since the Company’s customers use the Company’s products for critical business applications, any errors, defects or other performance problems could result in damage to the Company’s customers’ business. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, a product liability claim brought against us would likely be time consuming and costly. -16- Table of Contents Some competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources that may give them an advantage in the market. Many of the Company’s competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources. This may allow them to offer better pricing terms to customers in the industry, which could result in a loss of potential or current customers or could force us to lower prices. Any of these actions could have a significant effect on revenues. In addition, the competitors may have the ability to devote more financial and operational resources to the development of new technologies that provide improved operating functionality and features to their product and service offerings. If successful, their development efforts could render the Company’s product and service offerings less desirable to customers, again resulting in the loss of customers or a reduction in the price the Company can demand for the Company’s offerings. Risks Relating To The Company’s Common Stock If the Company fails to remain current on its reporting requirements, the Company could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board, which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company’s securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Companies trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, like us, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and must be current in reports required under Section 13 to maintain price quotation privileges on the OTC Bulletin Board. If the Company fails to remain current on its reporting requirements, the Company could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the market liquidity for the Company’s securities could be severely and adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company’s securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. The Company’s common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC and the trading market in the Company’s securities is limited, which makes transactions in the Company’s stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in the Company. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to the Company, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: · that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of valuating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. -17- Table of Contents The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of the Company’s common stock and cause a decline in the market value of the Company’s stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities, and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The limited public market for the Company’s securities may adversely affect an investor’s ability to liquidate an investment in the Company. Although the Company’s common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB), there is limited trading activity. The Company can give no assurance that an active market will develop, or if developed, that it will be sustained. If you acquire shares of the Company’s common stock, you may not be able to liquidate the Company’s shares should you need or desire to do so. Future issuances of the Company’s shares may lead to future dilution in the value of the Company’s common stock, will lead to a reduction in shareholder voting power, and may prevent a change in Company control. The shares may be substantially diluted due to the following: · Issuance of common stock in connection with funding agreements with third parties and future issuances of common and preferred stock by the Board of Directors; and · The Board of Directors has the power to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock and the right to determine the voting, dividend, conversion, liquidation, preferences and other conditions of the shares without shareholder approval. Stock issuances may result in reduction of the book value or market price of outstanding shares of common stock. If the Company issues any additional shares of common or preferred stock, proportionate ownership of common stock and voting power will be reduced. Further, any new issuance of common or preferred shares may prevent a change in control or management. -18- Table of Contents Compliance with the rules established by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will be complex. Failure to comply in a timely manner could adversely affect investor confidence and the Company’s stock price. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require the Company to perform an annual assessment of its internal controls over financial reporting, certify the effectiveness of those controls and secure an attestation of the Company’s assessment by its independent registered public accountants. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal controls and secure an attestation from its independent registered public accountant over financial reporting as now in effect are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. The Company may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting and secure an attestation from its independent registered public accountant. Due to the Company’s limited personnel resources and lack of experience, it may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of the assessment by its independent registered public accountants. If the Company cannot perform the assessment or certify that its internal controls over financial reporting are effective, and if the Company’s independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. 