ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to many risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and the related notes, before you decide whether to invest in our common stock. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed by any of the following risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Company The Company has incurred substantial indebtedness and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to pay such indebtedness when it comes due. The Company’s total assets were approximately $11,936,230 at June 30, 2012 and total liabilities were approximately $6,626,109 at June 30, 2012, of which $1,510,275 represented notes payable. In addition, in July 2010, approximately $4.1 million of indebtedness was converted into Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series B Preferred”). The Series B Preferred are entitled to receive cash dividends out of funds legally available at a rate of 12%, which rate increases to 15% beginning three years after the date of issuance, and 18% beginning five years after the date of issuance. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to satisfy its obligations when the same become due and payable, or that the Company will be able to pay the cash dividends on the Series B Preferred. The Company has incurred losses in the past and there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve profitability in the future. The Company’s marketing strategy emphasizes sales to clients acquired as a result of the Prescient Merger, sales of subscription based services instead of annual licenses, and contracting with suppliers (“spokes”) to connect to existing retail clients recently acquired by the Company (“hubs”) in connection with management’s recent emphasis on building the base of hubs for which to “connect” suppliers, thereby accelerating future growth. If this marketing strategy fails, revenue and operations will be negatively affected. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, the Company had a net loss of $858,667 compared to a net loss of $205,463, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011. There can be no assurance that the Company will return to profitability, or reliably or consistently operate profitably during future fiscal years. If the Company does not operate profitably in the future the Company’s current cash resources will be used to fund the Company’s operating losses. If this were to continue, in order to continue the Company’s operations, the Company would need to raise additional capital. Continued losses would have an adverse effect on the long-term value of the Company’s common stock and any investment in the Company. The Company cannot give any assurance that the Company will ever generate significant revenue or have sustainable profits. The Company’s liquidity and capital requirements will be difficult to predict, which may adversely affect the Company’s cash position in the future. Historically, the Company has been successful in raising capital when necessary, including stock issuances, securing loans from its officers and directors– including its Chief Executive Officer and majority stockholder– in order to pay its indebtedness and fund its operations in addition to proceeds collected from sales; however, there can be no assurances that it will be able to do so in the future. The Company anticipates that it will have adequate cash resources to fund its operations and satisfy its debt obligations for at least the next 12 months. Thereafter, its liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous other factors, including the following: ● the extent to which management can successfully execute its strategy of contracting with suppliers (spokes) to connect to existing retail clients recently acquired by the Company (hubs); ● the progress and scope of product evaluations; ● the ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy its debt obligations, or otherwise refinance or restructure such indebtedness; ● the extent of the Company’s ongoing research and development programs; and ● the costs of developing marketing and distribution capabilities. If in the future, the Company is required to seek additional financing in order to fund its operations, retire its indebtedness, and otherwise carry out its business plan, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and there can be no assurance that any such arrangement, if required or otherwise sought, would be available on terms deemed to be commercially acceptable and in the Company’s best interests. -7- Table of Contents Quarterly and Annual operating results may fluctuate, which makes it difficult to predict future performance. Management expects a significant portion of the Company’s revenue stream to come from the sale of subscriptions, and to a lesser extent, license sales, maintenance and services charged to new customers. These amounts will fluctuate because predicting future sales is difficult and involves speculation. In addition, the Company may potentially experience significant fluctuations in future operating results caused by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of its control, including: ● our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers' requirements; ● the renewal rates for our service; ● the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operations and expansion of our business; ● changes in our pricing policies whether initiated by us or as a result of competition; ● the cost, timing and management effort for the introduction of new features to our service; ● the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force; ● new product and service introductions by our competitors; ● variations in the revenue mix of editions or versions of our service; ● technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; ● general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers' ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions or upgrade their service, or delay a prospective customers' purchasing decision, or reduce the value of new subscription contracts or affect renewal rates; ● timing of additional investments in our enterprise cloud computing application and platform services and in our consulting service; ● regulatory compliance costs; ● the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; ● extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments; ● the impact of new accounting pronouncements; and ● the timing of stock awards to employees and the related financial statement impact. Because of the foregoing factors, future operating results may fluctuate. As a result of such fluctuations, it is difficult to predict operating results. Period-to-period comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. In addition, a relatively large portion of the Company’s expenses will be fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to facilities and personnel. Therefore, future operating results will be particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenue because of these and other short-term fixed costs. The Company will need to effectively manage its growth in order to achieve and sustain profitability. The Company’s failure to manage growth effectively could reduce its sales growth and result in continued net losses. To achieve continual and consistent profitable operations on a fiscal year on-going basis, the Company must have significant growth in its revenue from its products and services, specifically subscription-based services. If the Company is able to achieve significant growth in future subscription sales and expands the scope of its operations, the Company’s management, financial condition, operational capabilities, and procedures and controls could be strained. The Company cannot be certain that its existing or any additional capabilities, procedures, systems, or controls will be adequate to support the Company’s operations. The Company may not be able to design, implement or improve its capabilities, procedures, systems or controls in a timely and cost-effective manner. Failure to implement, improve and expand the Company’s capabilities, procedures, systems or controls in an efficient and timely manner could reduce the Company’s sales growth and result in a reduction of profitability or increase of net losses. -8- Table of Contents The Company’s officers and directors have significant control over it, which may lead to conflicts with other stockholders over corporate governance. The Company’s officers and directors, including the Chief Executive Officer, control approximately 48.3% of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Randall K. Fields, individually, controls 43.4% of the Company’s common stock. Consequently, Mr. Fields individually, and the Company’s officers and directors, as stockholders acting together, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by the Company’s stockholders, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as mergers or other business combination transactions. The Company’s corporate charter contains authorized, unissued “blank check” preferred stock issuable without stockholder approval with the effect of diluting then current stockholder interests. The Company’s certificate of incorporation currently authorizes the issuance of up to 30,000,000 shares of ‘blank check’ preferred stock with designations, rights, and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Company’s Board of Directors. In June 2007, the Company completed the sale of 584,000 shares of its Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred”). This, together with subsequent issuance of paid in kind dividends total 685,671 shares issued and outstanding as of June 30, 2012. In July 2010, the Company issued 411,927 shares of its Series B Preferred in consideration for the conversion of certain promissory notes totaling approximately $4.1 million. The Company’s board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more additional series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights that could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, the Company’s common stockholders. The issuance of an additional series of preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Because the Company has never paid dividends on its common stock, investors should exercise caution before making an investment in the Company. The Company has never paid dividends on its common stock and does not anticipate the declaration of any dividends pertaining to its common stock in the foreseeable future. The Company intends to retain earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of the Company’s business. The Company’s board of directors will determine future dividend policy at their sole discretion and future dividends will be contingent upon future earnings, if any, obligations of the stock issued, the Company’s financial condition, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors. Future dividends may also be affected by covenants contained in loan or other financing documents, which may be executed by the Company in the future. Therefore, there can be no assurance that dividends will ever be paid on its common stock. The Company’s business is dependent upon the continued services of the Company’s founder and Chief Executive Officer, Randall K. Fields; should the Company lose the services of Mr. Fields, the Company’s operations will be negatively impacted. The Company’s business is dependent upon the expertise of its founder and Chief Executive Officer, Randall K. Fields. Mr. Fields is essential to the Company’s operations. Accordingly, an investor must rely on Mr. Fields’ management decisions that will continue to control the Company’s business affairs. The Company currently maintains key man insurance on Mr. Fields’ life in the amount of $5,000,000; however, that coverage would be inadequate to compensate for the loss of his services. The loss of the services of Mr. Fields would have a materially adverse effect upon the Company’s business. If the Company is unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, the Company may be unable to develop, retain or expand the staff necessary to support its operational business needs. The Company’s current and future success depends on its ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate various employees, including skilled software development, technical, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for such employees is intense and the Company may be unable to attract or retain such professionals. If the Company fails to attract and retain these professionals, the Company’s revenue and expansion plans may be negatively impacted. The Company’s officers and directors have limited liability and indemnification rights under the Company’s organizational documents, which may impact its results. The Company’s officers and directors are required to exercise good faith and high integrity in the management of the Company’s affairs. The Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, however, provide, that the officers and directors shall have no liability to the stockholders for losses sustained or liabilities incurred which arise from any transaction in their respective managerial capacities unless they violated their duty of loyalty, did not act in good faith, engaged in intentional misconduct or knowingly violated the law, approved an improper dividend or stock repurchase or derived an improper benefit from the transaction. As a result, an investor may have a more limited right to action than he would have had if such a provision were not present. The Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws also require it to indemnify the Company’s officers and directors against any losses or liabilities they may incur as a result of the manner in which they operate the Company’s business or conduct the Company’s internal affairs, provided that the officers and directors reasonably believe such actions to be in, or not opposed to, the Company’s best interests, and their conduct does not constitute gross negligence, misconduct or breach of fiduciary obligations. -9- Table of Contents Business Operations Risks If the Company’s marketing strategy fails, its revenue and operations will be negatively affected. The Company plans to concentrate its future sales efforts towards marketing the Company’s applications and services, and specifically to contract with suppliers (“spokes”) to connect to our existing retail customers (“hubs”) previously signed up by the Company. These applications and services are designed to be highly flexible so that they can work in multiple retail and supplier environments such as grocery stores, convenience stores, specialty retail and route-based delivery environments. There is no assurance that the public will accept the Company’s applications and services in proportion to the Company’s increased marketing of this product line, or that the Company will be able to successfully leverage its hubs to increase revenue by connecting suppliers. The Company may face significant competition that may negatively affect demand for its applications and services, including the public’s preference for the Company’s competitors’ new product releases or updates over the Company’s releases or updates. If the Company’s applications and services marketing strategies fail, the Company will need to refocus its marketing strategy toward other product offerings, which could lead to increased development and marketing costs, delayed revenue streams, and otherwise negatively affect the Company’s operations. Because the Company’s emphasis is on the sale of subscription based services rather than annual license fees, the Company’s revenue may be negatively affected. Historically, the Company offered applications and related maintenance contracts to new customers for a one-time, non-recurring up front license fee and provided an option for annually renewing their maintenance agreements. The Company is now principally offering prospective customers monthly subscription based licensing of its products. The Company’s customers may now choose to acquire a license to use the software on an Application Solution Provider basis (also referred to as ASP) resulting in monthly charges for use of the Company’s software products and maintenance fees. The Company’s conversion from a strategy of one-time, non-recurring licensing based model to a monthly recurring fees based approach is subject to the following risks: ● the Company’s customers may prefer one-time fees rather than monthly fees; and ● there may be a threshold level (number of locations) at which the monthly based fee structure may not be economical to the customer, and a request to convert from monthly fees to an annual fee could occur. The Company faces threats from competing and emerging technologies that may affect its profitability. Markets for the Company’s type of software products and that of its competitors are characterized by: ● development of new software, software solutions or enhancements that are subject to constant change; ● rapidly evolving technological change; and ● unanticipated changes in customer needs. Because these markets are subject to such rapid change, the life cycle of the Company’s products is difficult to predict. As a result, the Company is subject to the following risks: ● whether or how the Company will respond to technological changes in a timely or cost-effective manner; ● whether the products or technologies developed by the Company’s competitors will render the Company’s products and services obsolete or shorten the life cycle of the Company’s products and services; and ● whether the Company’s products and services will achieve market acceptance. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center hosting facility could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We currently serve our customers from a third-party data center hosting facility located in the United States. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. As we continue to add capacity, we may move or transfer our data and our customers' data. Despite precautions taken during this process, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our service. Further, any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. As part of our current disaster recovery arrangements, our production environment and all of our customers' data is currently replicated in near real-time in a separate facility physically located in a different geographic region of the United States. Companies and products added through acquisition may be temporarily served through an alternate facility. We do not control the operation of these facilities, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Even with the disaster recovery arrangements, our service could be interrupted. -10- Table of Contents If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer's data, our data or our information technology systems, our service may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our service and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. Our service involves the storage and transmission of customers' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. These security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise during transfer of data to additional data centers or at any time, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our service, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. We cannot accurately predict subscription renewal or upgrade rates and the impact these rates may have on our future revenue and operating results. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our service after the expiration of their initial subscription period. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customer dissatisfaction with our service, customers' ability to continue their operations and spending levels, and deteriorating general economic conditions. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our service or reduce the level of service at the time of renewal, our revenue will decline and our business will suffer. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell additional features and services, more subscriptions or enhanced editions of our service to our current customers. This may also require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts that are targeted at senior management. Similarly, the rate at which our customers purchase new or enhanced services depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions. If our efforts to upsell to our customers are not successful, our business may suffer. Weakened global economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions. The United States and other key international economies have experienced in the past a downturn in which economic activity was impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy. These conditions affect the rate of information technology spending and could adversely affect our customers' ability or willingness to purchase our enterprise cloud computing services, delay prospective customers' purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscription contracts or affect renewal rates, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. If the Company is unable to adapt to constantly changing markets and to continue to develop new products and technologies to meet the customers’ needs, the Company’s revenue and profitability will be negatively affected. The Company’s future revenue is dependent upon the successful and timely development and licensing of new and enhanced versions of its products and potential product offerings suitable to the customer’s needs. If the Company fails to successfully upgrade existing products and develop new products, and those new products do not achieve market acceptance, the Company’s revenue will be negatively impacted. The Company faces risks associated with the loss of maintenance and other revenue. The Company has historically experienced the loss of long-term maintenance customers as a result of the reliability of some of its products. Some customers may not see the value in continuing to pay for maintenance that they do not need or use, and in some cases, customers have decided to replace the Company’s applications or maintain the system on their own. The Company continues to focus on these maintenance clients by providing new functionality and enhancements to meet their business needs. The Company also may lose some maintenance revenue due to consolidation of industries, macroeconomic conditions or customer operational difficulties that lead to their reduction of size. In addition, future revenue will be negatively impacted if the Company fails to add new maintenance customers that will make additional purchases of the Company’s products and services. -11- Table of Contents The Company faces risks associated with new product introductions. The Company receives and analyzes market and product data. Based on this data, the Company may endeavor to develop and commercialize new product offerings. The following risks apply to potential new product offerings: ● it may be difficult for the Company to predict the amount of service and technological resources that will be needed by customers of the new offerings, and if the Company underestimates the necessary resources, the quality of its service will be negatively impacted thereby undermining the value of the product to the customer. ● the Company lacks the experience with these new products and the market acceptance to accurately predict if it will be a profitable product. ● technological issues between the Company and the customer may be experienced in capturing data, and these technological issues may result in unforeseen conflicts or technological setbacks when implementing the software. This may result in material delays and even result in a termination of the engagement with the customer. ● the customer’s experience with the new offerings, if negative, may prevent the Company from having an opportunity to sell additional products and services to that customer. ● if the customer does not use the product as the Company recommends and fails to implement any needed corrective action(s), it is unlikely that the customer will experience the business benefits from the software and may therefore be hesitant to continue the engagement as well as acquire any additional software products from the Company. ● delays in proceeding with the implementation of the new products by a new customer will negatively affect the Company’s cash flow and its ability to predict cash flow. The Company faces risks associated with proprietary protection of the Company’s software. The Company’s success depends on the Company’s ability to develop and protect existing and new proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. The Company seeks to protect its software, documentation and other written materials primarily through a combination of patents, trademarks, and copyright laws, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. While the Company has attempted to safeguard and maintain the Company’s proprietary rights, there are no assurances that the Company will be successful in doing so. The Company’s competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Company’s. Despite the Company’s efforts to protect its proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of the Company’s products or obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary. In some types of situations, the Company may rely in part on ‘shrink wrap’ or ‘point and click’ licenses that are not signed by the end user and, therefore, may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products is difficult. While the Company is unable to determine the extent to which piracy of the Company’s software exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as the United States. The Company can offer no assurance that the Company’s means of protecting its proprietary rights will be adequate or that the Company’s competitors will not reverse engineer or independently develop similar technology. The Company may discover software errors in its products that may result in a loss of revenue, injury to the Company’s reputation or subject us to substantial liability. Non-conformities or bugs (“errors”) may be found from time to time in the Company’s existing, new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of revenue or injury to the Company’s reputation. In the past, the Company has discovered errors in its products and as a result, has experienced delays in the shipment of products. Errors in the Company’s products may be caused by defects in third-party software incorporated into the Company’s products. If so, the Company may not be able to fix these defects without the cooperation of these software providers. Since these defects may not be as significant to the software provider as they are to us, the Company may not receive the rapid cooperation that may be required. The Company may not have the contractual right to access the source code of third-party software, and even if the Company does have access to the code, the Company may not be able to fix the defect. In addition, our customers may use our service in unanticipated ways that may cause a disruption in service for other customers attempting to access their data. Since the Company’s customers use the Company’s products for critical business applications, any errors, defects or other performance problems could hurt the Company’s reputation and may result in damage to the Company’s customers’ business. If that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. These potential scenarios, successful or otherwise, would likely be time consuming and costly. -12- Table of Contents Some competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources that may give them an advantage in the market. Many of the Company’s competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources. This may allow them to offer better pricing terms to customers in the industry, which could result in a loss of potential or current customers or could force us to lower prices. Any of these actions could have a significant effect on revenue. In addition, the competitors may have the ability to devote more financial and operational resources to the development of new technologies that provide improved operating functionality and features to their product and service offerings. If successful, their development efforts could render the Company’s product and service offerings less desirable to customers, again resulting in the loss of customers or a reduction in the price the Company can demand for the Company’s offerings. Risks Relating to the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC and the trading market in the Company’s securities is limited, which makes transactions in the Company’s stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in the Company. The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) has adopted Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to the Company, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: ● that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and ● the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: ● obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and ● make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of valuating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: ● Sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and ● That the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of the Company’s common stock and cause a decline in the market value of the Company’s stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities, and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The limited public market for the Company’s securities may adversely affect an investor’s ability to liquidate an investment in the Company. Although the Company’s common stock is currently quoted on the NYSE American Stock Exchange, there is limited trading activity. The Company can give no assurance that an active market will develop, or if developed, that it will be sustained. If an investor acquires shares of the Company’s common stock, the investor may not be able to liquidate the Company’s shares should there be a need or desire to do so. -13- Table of Contents Future issuances of the Company’s shares may lead to future dilution in the value of the Company’s common stock, will lead to a reduction in shareholder voting power and may prevent a change in Company control. The shares may be substantially diluted due to the following: ● issuance of common stock in connection with funding agreements with third parties and future issuances of common and preferred stock by the Board of Directors; and ● the Board of Directors has the power to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock and the right to determine the voting, dividend, conversion, liquidation, preferences and other conditions of the shares without shareholder approval. Stock issuances may result in reduction of the book value or market price of outstanding shares of common stock. If the Company issues any additional shares of common or preferred stock, proportionate ownership of common stock and voting power will be reduced. Further, any new issuance of common or preferred stock may prevent a change in control or management. 