Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Below is a series of risk factors that may affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Other risk factors are contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These and such other risk factors may not be exhaustive. The Company operates in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such new risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of these risk factors on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may impact of any of these areas. The Company’s expansion and renovation plans may not be successful which may adversely affect the Company’s business and financial condition due to the capital expenditures and management resources required to carry out the Company’s plans. The Company has spent, and intends to continue to spend, significant capital and management resources on the development and implementation of the Company’s expansion and renovation plans. These plans, if 11 Table of Contents implemented, may not be successful, may not improve operating results and may have an adverse effect on cash flow and management resources due to the significant amount of capital invested and management time expended. The level of sales and profit margins in the Company’s existing stores may not be duplicated in the Company’s new stores, depending on factors such as prevailing competition, development cost, and the Company’s market position in the surrounding community. These factors could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company’s warehouse and distribution center and milk processing and packaging plant, as well as all of the Company’s stores, are concentrated in the Southeastern United States, which makes it vulnerable to economic downturns, natural disasters and other adverse conditions or other catastrophic events in this region. The Company operates in the Southeastern United States, and its performance is therefore heavily influenced by economic developments in the Southeast region. The Company’s headquarters, warehouse and distribution center and milk processing and packaging plant are located in North Carolina and all of the Company’s stores are located in the Southeast region. As a result, the Company’s business may be more susceptible to regional factors than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors. These factors include, among others, changes in the economy, weather conditions, demographics and population. The Company has, and expects to continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. At September 26, 2009, the Company had total consolidated indebtedness for borrowed money of $849.3 million and we had $190.0 million of availability under its lines of credit. A portion of the Company’s cash flow is used to service such indebtedness. The Company owns a significant amount of real estate, which has been and will continue to be a factor in the Company’s overall level of indebtedness. Real estate can be used as collateral for indebtedness and can be sold to reduce indebtedness. The Company’s significant indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • It may be difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations under its existing credit facilities and its other indebtedness and commitments; • The Company is required to use a portion of its cash flow from operations to pay interest on its current and future indebtedness, which may require the Company to reduce funds available for other purposes; • The Company may have a limited ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, to fund additional projects, working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service, general corporate or other obligations; and • The Company may be placed at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors that are not as highly leveraged. Disruptions in the capital markets, as have been experienced during 2009, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to fund its short-term liquidity needs and its expansion and renovation plans. Disruptions in the capital markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect the Company’s access to liquidity needed for its business. Any disruption could limit the Company’s access to capital and raise its cost of capital to the extent available and require the Company to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for its business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. The Company’s principal stockholder, Robert P. Ingle, has the ability to elect a majority of the Company’s directors, appoint new members of management and approve many actions requiring stockholder approval. Mr. Ingle’s share ownership represents approximately 86% of the combined voting power of all classes of the Company’s capital stock as of September 26, 2009. As a result, Mr. Ingle has the power to elect a majority of 12 Table of Contents the Company’s directors and approve any action requiring the approval of the holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, including adopting certain amendments to the Company’s charter and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of the Company’s assets. Currently, three of the Company’s nine directors are members of the Ingle family. If the Company loses the services of its key personnel, the Company’s business could suffer. The Company’s continued success depends upon the availability and performance of the Company’s executive officers, including Robert P. Ingle and Robert P. Ingle, II, who possess unique and extensive industry knowledge and experience. The loss of the services of any of the Company’s executive officers or other key employees could adversely affect the Company’s business. Various aspects of the Company’s business are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations. The Company’s compliance with these regulations may require additional capital expenditures and could adversely affect the Company’s ability to conduct the Company’s business as planned. The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, work place safety, public health, community right-to-know, beer and wine sales, country of origin labeling of food products, pharmaceutical sales and gasoline station operations. Furthermore, the Company’s business is regulated by a variety of governmental agencies, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the Occupational Health and Safety Administration. A number of states and local jurisdictions regulate the licensing of supermarkets, including beer and wine license grants. In addition, under certain local regulations, the Company is prohibited from selling beer and wine in certain of the Company’s stores. Employers are also subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, disabled access and work permit requirements. Compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of the Company’s supermarkets and could otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. A number of federal, state and local laws exist which impose burdens or restrictions on owners with respect to access by disabled persons. The Company’s compliance with these laws may result in modifications to the Company’s properties, or prevent the Company from performing certain further renovations, with respect to access by disabled persons. The Company is also subject to various state and federal environmental laws relating to the Company’s stores, gas stations, distribution facilities and use of hazardous or toxic substances. As a result of these laws, the Company could be responsible for remediation of environmental conditions and may be subject to associated liabilities. The Company is affected by certain operating costs which could increase or fluctuate considerably. The Company depends on qualified employees to operate the Company’s stores and may be affected by future tight labor markets. A shortage of qualified employees could require the Company to enhance the Company’s wage and benefit package in order to better compete for and retain qualified employees, and the Company may not be able to recover these increased labor costs through price increases charged to customers, which could significantly increase the Company’s operating costs. Finally, interchange fees charged to us for accepting debit and credit cards have increased substantially and may continue to increase as more customer transactions are settled with debit and credit cards. The Company is affected by the availability and wholesale price of gasoline and retail gasoline prices, all of which can fluctuate quickly and considerably. The Company operates fuel stations at 66 of its store locations. While the Company obtains gasoline and diesel fuel from a number of different suppliers, long-term disruption in the availability and wholesale price of gasoline for resale could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuating fuel costs adversely affect the Company’s operating costs which depend on fuel for the Company’s fleet of tractors and trailers which distribute goods from the Company’s distribution facility and for the Company’s fluid dairy operations. In addition, operations at the Company’s stores are sensitive to rising utility fuel costs due to the amount of electricity and gas required to operate the stores and the influence of petroleum costs on plastic bags and wraps. Furthermore, fluctuating fuel costs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s total gasoline sales (both in terms of dollars and gallons sold), the profitability of gasoline sales, or the Company’s plans to develop additional fuel centers. Also, retail gas price volatility could diminish customer usage of fueling centers and, thus, adversely affect customer traffic at the Company’s stores. The Company’s industry is highly competitive. If the Company is unable to compete effectively, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. The supermarket industry is highly competitive and continues to be characterized by intense price competition, aggressive supercenter expansion, increasing fragmentation of retail formats, entry of non-traditional competitors and market consolidation. Furthermore, some of the Company’s competitors have greater financial resources and could use these financial resources to take measures, such as altering product mix or reducing prices, which could adversely affect the Company’s competitive position. The Company also faces competition from restaurants and fast food chains due to the increasing proportion of household food expenditures for food prepared outside the home. In addition, certain of the Company’s stores also compete with local video stores, florists, book stores, pharmacies and gas stations. Disruptions in the efficient distribution of food products to the Company’s warehouse and stores may adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s business could be adversely affected by disruptions in the efficient distribution of food products to the Company’s warehouse and to the Company’s stores. Such disruptions could be caused by, among other things, adverse weather conditions, fuel availability, food contamination recalls and civil unrest in foreign countries in which the Company’s suppliers do business. The Company’s operations are subject to economic conditions that impact consumer spending. The Company’s results of operations are sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, energy and fuel costs and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. A general reduction in the level of consumer spending or the Company’s inability to respond to shifting consumer attitudes regarding products, store location and other factors could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 