Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s expansion and renovation plans may not be successful which may adversely affect its business and financial condition due to the capital expenditures and management resources required to carry out its plans. The Company has spent, and intends to continue to spend, significant capital and management resources on the development and implementation of its expansion and renovation plans. These plans, if implemented, may not be successful and may not improve operating results and may have an adverse effect on cash flow due to the significant amount of capital invested. The Company’s new, relocated and remodeled stores may initially operate at a loss, depending on factors such as prevailing competition, development cost, and its market position in the surrounding community. The level of sales and profit margins in the Company’s existing stores may not be duplicated in its new stores which could have an adverse affect on the Company’s business and financial condition. The Company’s warehouse and distribution center, as well as all of its stores, are concentrated in the Southeastern United States, which makes the Company vulnerable to economic downturns, natural disasters and other adverse conditions or other catastrophic events in this region. The Company operates in the Southeastern United States, with a strong concentration in Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee. The Company’s headquarters, warehouse and distribution center are located in North Carolina and all of its stores are located in the Southeast region. As a result, the Company’s business is more susceptible to regional factors than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors. These factors include, among others, changes in the economy, weather conditions, demographics and population. The Company’s principal stockholder, Robert P. Ingle, has the ability to elect a majority of the Company’s directors, appoint new members of management and approve many actions requiring shareholder approval. Mr. Ingle’s share ownership represents approximately 87% of the combined voting power of all classes of the Company’s capital stock. As a result, Mr. Ingle has the power to elect a majority of the Company’s directors and approve any action requiring the approval of the holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, including adopting certain amendments to the Company’s charter and approving 10 mergers or sales of substantially all of the Company’s assets. Currently, three of the Company’s nine directors are members of the Ingle family. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of Mr. Ingle could be in conflict with the interests of other holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Various aspects of the Company’s business are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations. The Company’s compliance with these regulations may require additional capital expenditures and could adversely affect the Company’s ability to conduct its business as planned. The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, work place safety, public health, community right-to-know, beer and wine sales, pharmaceutical sales and gasoline station operations. A number of states and local jurisdictions regulate the licensing of supermarkets, including beer and wine license grants. In addition, under certain local regulations, the Company is prohibited from selling beer and wine in certain stores. The Company’s ownership and development of real estate and operation of gas stations may subject it to liability under state and federal environmental laws. Employers are also subject to law governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, disabled access and work permit requirements. Compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of the Company’s supermarkets and could otherwise adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. A number of federal, state and local laws exist which impose burdens or restrictions on owners with respect to access by disabled persons. Compliance with these laws may result in modifications to Company properties, or prevent certain further renovations, with respect to access by disabled persons. The Company is affected by certain operating costs which could increase or fluctuate considerably. The Company depends on qualified employees to operate its stores and may be affected by future tight labor markets. Moreover, all of the Company’s stores are located in the Southeastern United States which has recently experienced lower average unemployment rates than other parts of the country making it more difficult for the Company to attract and retain qualified employees. A shortage of qualified employees could require the Company to enhance its wage and benefit package in order to better compete for and retain qualified employees, and the Company may not be able to recover these increased labor costs through price increases charged to customers, which could significantly increase its operating costs. Fluctuating fuel costs adversely affect the Company’s operating costs in that the Company requires fuel for its fleet of tractors and trailers which distribute goods from the Company’s distribution facility and for its fluid dairy operations. In addition, operations at the Company’s stores are sensitive to rising utility fuel costs due to the amount of electricity and gas required to operate the stores and the influence of petroleum costs on plastic bags and wraps. Finally, interchange fees charged to the Company for accepting debit and credit cards have increased substantially and may continue to increase as more customer transactions are settled with debit and credit cards. The Company’s industry is highly competitive. If the Company is unable to compete effectively, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. The supermarket industry is and will remain highly competitive and is expected to be characterized by industry consolidation, continued competition from supercenters, and the development of smaller, more specialized stores. Furthermore, some of the Company’s competitors have greater financial resources and could use these financial resources to take measures, such as altering product mix or reducing prices, which could adversely affect the Company’s competitive position. The Company also faces increasing competition from restaurants and fast food chains due to the increasing proportion of household food expenditures for food prepared outside the home. In addition, certain of the Company’s stores also compete with local video stores, florists, book stores, pharmacies and gas stations. 11 The Company has, and expects to continue to have, a significant amount of debt. At September 29, 2007 the Company had total debt of $543.3 million. A significant potion of the Company’s cash flow is used to service indebtedness. At September 29, 2007 debt totaling $173.3 million was secured by real estate and equipment owned by the Company. This could limit the Company’s ability to dispose of mortgaged property without payment of the associated debt. The Company expects to incur additional debt to support its growth and expansion plans. There can be no assurances that sources of financing will be available to the Company on acceptable terms or that new and expanded stores will generate sufficient cash flow to service any additional debt. Disruptions in the efficient distribution of food products to the Company’s warehouse and stores may adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s business could be adversely affected by disruptions in the efficient distribution of food products to the Company’s warehouse and to our stores. Such disruptions could be caused by, among other things, adverse weather conditions, food contamination recalls and civil unrest in foreign countries in which our suppliers do business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 