Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we may currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. As a result of our history of operating losses, inadequate operating cash flow and net capital deficiency, our auditors have substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern depends upon our ability to obtain additional financing, secure new customers and increase sales to existing customers. We have experienced significant operating losses in each fiscal year since 2000, including net losses from continuing operations of $28.0 million for fiscal 2008. As of September 27, 2008, we had a working capital deficit of $31.2 million. We have minimal financial resources, and our cash flow from operating activities continues to be insufficient to meet our operating needs and debt service obligations. As a result of these factors, among others, our independent public accountants have substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may be necessary as a result of this uncertainty. As a result of receiving this opinion from our independent public accountants, we may experience possible adverse effects from our customers, on our creditworthiness, or on investor confidence, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price of our common stock. Our ability to continue as a going concern depends upon our ability to obtain additional financing, our success in securing new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, as well as our ability to improve our liquidity, whether through cash generated by operations or through incurring additional debt or the issuance of debt or equity. Our management has and will continue to implement operational measures designed to address our operation and cash flow objectives. In addition, management may seek waivers of covenants under our credit facilities or forbearances on interest or principal payments. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in improving our business, obtaining waivers or other accommodations from our lenders or obtaining additional debt or equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have experienced ongoing losses from operations and we rely on our existing credit facilities to finance cash required for our operations. We had net losses from continuing operations of $28.0 million for fiscal 2008 and have experienced losses from operations in each fiscal year since 2000. Operating activities used $8.9 million and $17.6 million during the years ended September 27, 2008 and September 29, 2007, respectively. As of September 27, 2008, we had a working capital deficit of $31.2 million. Whether we achieve a sufficient level of net income to fund our operations will depend on a number of factors, including: • the level of revenue in any given period; • our expense levels, particularly for manufacturing costs; • our manufacturing efficiency, particularly with respect to new product introductions and high volume products; • increasing revenue from existing AFC and FPD customers; • cultivating new AFC and FPD customers; and • the qualification of new products, including new semiconductor packaging, smart cards, phone camera modules and printer flex products. 9 We have historically financed our operations primarily through bank credit facilities, and, to a lesser extent, cash from operating activities. From time to time, we have also received cash from sales of equity securities and employee stock option exercises. Cash and equivalents were $6.5 million at September 27, 2008 and $10.5 million at September 29, 2007. As of September 27, 2008, our indebtedness under our Thai bank credit facilities consisted of: · Long-term debt of $19.0 million, less current maturities of $3.5 million; and · Short-term debt of $32.7 million; and Total unused availability as of September 27, 2008 was approximately $2.5 million under our packing credit and short-term working capital facilities. Our ability to draw funds under the packing credit facility depends upon presenting qualifying customer purchase orders to the banks. Because of the limited availability under our short-term packing credit facility, if we are unable to provide our lenders with qualifying purchase orders, we will not be able to obtain additional funds for our operations from this credit facility. Moreover, the amount currently available under our Thai credit facilities is insufficient to fund our ongoing operations. We must increase the income generated from our operations to fund our ongoing cash needs and to service our indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our outstanding debt and fund operations. Our ability to satisfy our obligations to pay interest and to repay debt depends on the performance of our business. Our performance depends, in part, on our ability to secure new customers, generate significant revenue from existing and new customers, manage expenses (in particular manufacturing expenses) and maintain manufacturing efficiency, as well as general economic conditions and other factors over which we have little control. To the extent that we use a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal of, and interest on our indebtedness, that cash flow will not be available to fund future operations and capital expenditures. Historically, we have not generated sufficient cash flow from operations to fund both our operations and debt service. Our operating cash flow will not be sufficient to fund our future capital expenditure and debt service requirements or to fund future operations unless we increase revenues significantly. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to service or reduce our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in an amount that significantly exceeds the cash flow generated from our operations in prior fiscal years, our ability to make required payments on our debt will be impaired and may result in payment or covenant defaults, acceleration of our indebtedness, seizure by the banks of assets that secure our indebtedness, loss of control of our business or bankruptcy. This could also create additional concern with our customers that may reduce orders allocated to us and impact our ability to maintain current business levels or even reduce future business expansion. The current severe downturn and uncertainty in the global economy in general and weakness in the disk drive and telecommunications industries in particular may harm our business and operating results. The worldwide economy is currently undergoing unprecedented turmoil amid stock market volatility, tightening of credit markets, concerns of inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns and business insolvencies. This turmoil and the uncertainty about future economic conditions could negatively impact our customers and, among other things, postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and jeopardize or delay their ability or willingness to make payment obligations, any of which could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of this severe global economic downturn or subsequent recovery. We manufacture electrical components, primarily flexible circuit interconnects, for the computer, data storage, consumer, medical, telecommunications and other electronic industries. If the demand for products incorporating our flexible circuit interconnects declines significantly, or customer spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. As a result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. If the general economy and the disk drive and telecommunications industries do not improve, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. 10 We need additional capital to continue and grow our business, which may not be available. Our ability to execute our long-term strategy depends on our ability to obtain additional working capital. While we are attempting to generate capital through increasing income and cash flow from our operations, we have an immediate need for additional debt or equity capital to fund our existing operations and to grow our business. We may also need to identify and secure capital to refinance our existing indebtedness at the maturity of 2012 or earlier, if required repayment of our debt is accelerated because of a payment or covenant default. We may seek additional capital by incurring additional indebtedness or from an offering of our equity securities or both. No assurance can be given that additional working capital will be obtained in an amount that is sufficient for our needs, in a timely manner or on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Our financing needs are based upon management estimates as to future revenue and expense. Our business plan and financing needs are also subject to change based upon, among other factors, market and industry conditions, our ability to increase cash flow from operations and our ability to control costs and expenses. Our efforts to raise additional funds from the sale of equity may be hampered by depressed trading price of our common stock and the fact that our common stock is listed on the Pink Sheets. Our efforts to raise funds by incurring additional indebtedness may be hampered by the fact that we have significant outstanding indebtedness and the challenges we face in servicing our current indebtedness with cash flow from operations, as well as the fact that our assets are pledged to our lenders to secure existing debt. In addition, the covenants of our credit agreement restrict our ability to make distributions, create liens, incur indebtedness, and sell our assets and properties. The following factors may also affect our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all: • our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects; • conditions in the disk drive industry as well as the telecommunications market; • general economic conditions, including the availability of credit and lending standards of banks and other financial institutions; and • the perception in the capital markets of our business. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we may further curtail our capital expenditures, further reduce research and development expenditures, or suspend or discontinue our operations. Our ability to make required payments on our debt may also be impaired, which may result in payment or covenant defaults, acceleration of our indebtedness, seizure by the banks of assets that secure our indebtedness, loss of control of our business or bankruptcy. Our sales are concentrated in a small customer base and in the HDD industry. Sales to our largest customer from fiscal 2008 constituted 43% of net sales for fiscal 2008, 11% for fiscal 2007 and 14% for fiscal 2006. Sales in fiscal 2008 to our second largest customer, which historically was our largest customer, constituted 23% of net sales for fiscal 2008, 66% for fiscal 2007 and 73% for fiscal 2006, respectively. Sales to our five largest customers constituted 97%, 99% and 94% of net sales for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our largest customer historically, discontinued use of our FSA product during our fiscal 2008 second quarter. As a result, sales to this customer decreased substantially during fiscal 2008. The loss of FSA sales to this customer had a material adverse effect on our business and the loss of one or more of our major customers or a substantial reduction in orders by any other significant customer, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various factors, many of which are outside our control, could cause a loss of customers or reduction in orders including market, economic or competitive conditions in the computer, computer peripheral, mobile communication device and high-end consumer markets, the development by a customer of the capability to produce flexible circuits in high volume for its own products, a transfer of manufacturing operations by a customer to a lower-cost country, a change in the type of interconnect or suspension assembly used by our largest customers or the failure of a customer to pay its account balance with us. Sales of our FSA and AFC products to the hard disk drive industry accounted for 51%, 84% and 80% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The disk drive industry is intensely competitive and technology changes rapidly. The industry's demand for disk drive components also fluctuates. The disk drive industry experiences periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect suppliers to this industry because disk drive manufacturers tend to order more disk drive components than they may need during growth periods, and reduce orders for these components during periods of contraction. Fluctuations in the hard disk drive industry may result in fluctuations in our operating results, but these fluctuations are difficult to predict and are likely to vary in the future. 11 Our second largest customer in fiscal 2008 and largest customer historically, discontinued use of our FSA products during the fiscal 2008 second quarter. Because our largest customer has increased utilization of alternative interconnect technology that competes with our FSA product, our FSA product reached the end of its life during our fiscal 2008 second quarter and revenue generated from FSA product decreased substantially. Sales of our FSA product accounted for 12%, 49% and 58% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Revenue generated from the sale of our FSA product was $8.7 million, $43.3 million and $100.4 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 respectively. The value added or revenue excluding pass-through components portion of the FSA product relates to the flexible circuit of the FSA which we manufacture. FSA revenue excluding pass-through components has ranged from 34% to 37% of the FSA selling price in the past three fiscal years. The remaining non-value added portion of the FSA product selling price is related to the cost of the suspension attached to the flexible circuit. To date, increases in revenue excluding pass-through components from other products have not been sufficient to replace the decreases in FSA revenue excluding pass-through. As a result, we have taken a number of steps to reduce our cost structure including the closure of our U.S. manufacturing facilities. Our business has been adversely impacted by the reduction of FSA revenue and if we cannot increase our revenue excluding pass-through to replace the reductions in FSA revenue excluding pass-through or reduce our cost structure to correspond to decreases in revenue excluding pass-through, our business, financial condition and results of operations will continue to be materially adversely affected. Our financing agreements contain restrictive covenants with which we may not be able to comply. We have entered into financing agreements that contain restrictive financial covenants. These covenants require us, among other things, to maintain specified levels of net income, tangible net worth and interest and leverage ratios, and also impose certain limitations on additional indebtedness, leases, guarantees and the payment of dividends. Our ability to comply with restrictive financial covenants depends upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance depends, in part, on general industry conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot be sure that we will be able to comply with these covenants in the future, and we may not be successful in renegotiating our financing agreements or otherwise obtaining relief from the covenants. If we default under some or all of our financing agreements, our lenders may require that we immediately repay the full outstanding amount we owe to them. In such event, we may have to pursue alternative financing arrangements, which may not be timely available to us, if at all. Our common stock is currently listed on the Pink Sheets, which may result in negative impacts on our stock price and make our stock illiquid. Until August 4, 2008, our common stock was listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market system. The Nasdaq Capital Market suspended trading in our common stock effective August 4, 2008. Beginning on August 4, 2008, our common stock was quoted on the Pink Sheets under the symbol of “INVX.PK”. Because our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets, it is subjected to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to “penny stocks.” These rules require brokers who sell securities that are subject to the rules, and who sell to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors, to complete required documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with information concerning the risks of trading in the security. Consequently, since our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets, we believe an investor may find it more difficult to buy or sell our common stock in the open market and investors may have a difficult time making transactions in our common stock because of the lack of market to do so. There can be no assurance that our common stock may be sold without a significant negative impact on the price per share or that any market will exist for our common stock. Our selling prices are subject to pricing pressure from our customers and market pressure from our competitors. We deal with a limited number of large customers who are able to exert significant pricing pressure on our products. Our selling prices are affected by changes in overall demand for our products, changes in the specific products our customers buy and our products' life cycles. A typical life cycle for our products begins with higher pricing when a product is introduced and decreasing prices as it matures. To offset price decreases during a product's life, we rely primarily on higher sales volume and improving our manufacturing yield and productivity to reduce a product's cost. We must reduce our manufacturing costs as prices decline during our products' life cycles in order to generate income from operations. 12 The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price/performance characteristics. Competitive pressures often necessitate price reductions that adversely affect operating results. We will be required to make a continued high level of investment in product development and research, sales and marketing and ongoing customer service and support to remain competitive. In addition, our ability to effect price reductions or otherwise respond to competitive pressures is limited because of our need to generate cash flow from operations to service our debt obligations. The competitive pressures we face have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations. Our past operating results, and our gross margins, have fluctuated from fiscal period to fiscal period. Our future operating results and gross margins may continue to fluctuate from fiscal period to fiscal period due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control and any of which could cause our stock price to fluctuate. The primary factors that affect us include the following: • changes in overall demand for our products; • technological changes that change disk drive demand; • changes in expected customer timing of new product introductions; • changes in OEM customer manufacturing yields throughout their products' life cycles; • changes in the specific products our customers buy; • changes in our selling prices; • changes in utilization of our production capacity; • changes in our infrastructure costs; • changes in our manufacturing process, or problems related to our manufacturing process; • changes in our manufacturing yields; • changes in our production efficiency; • long disruptions in operations at any of our plants for any reason; and • changes in the cost of, or limits on, available materials and labor. Difficulties in forecasting demand for our products make it challenging to utilize our capacity efficiently. If customer demand for our actuator flex, display flex, stacked memory flex or tape storage flex products weakens, or if one or more customers reduce, delay or cancel orders, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The end of life of our FSA product and corresponding decreases in our FSA revenue have resulted in us taking a number of steps to reduce our cost structure related to underutilized capacity. These steps have included the closure of our U.S. based manufacturing facilities. To regain lost FSA revenue, we must increase our revenue from other products. We must also reduce our cost structure to correspond to decreases in revenue. We typically allow customers to change or cancel orders on short notice. We plan our production and inventory based primarily on forecasts of customer demand, including forecasts of customer pulls of product out of our just-in-time inventory hubs. Our customers typically prefer a dual source supply, and therefore allocate their demand among suppliers. Both customer demand and the resulting forecasts often fluctuate substantially. These factors, among others, create an environment where scheduled production and capacity utilization can vary significantly from week to week, leading to variability in gross margins. The following factors complicate accurate capacity planning for market demand: • changes in the specific products our customers buy; • the pace of technological change; • variability in our manufacturing yields and productivity; and • long lead times for most of our plant and equipment expenditures, requiring major financial commitments well in advance of actual production requirements. We have at times increased our production capacity and the overhead that supports production based on anticipated market demand which has not always developed as expected. Our inability to plan our capacity requirements accurately, or our failure to put in place the technologies and capacity necessary to meet market demand, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Competing technologies have resulted in the end of our FSA product and may reduce demand for our other products. Flexible circuit interconnects provide electrical connections between components in electrical systems and are used as a platform to support the attachment of electronic devices. While flexible circuits offer several advantages over competing printed circuit board and ceramic hybrid circuit technologies, our customers may consider changing their designs to use these alternative technologies for future applications. In particular, our largest customer in fiscal 2007 increased utilization of an alternative interconnect technology that competes with our FSA products and our FSA product reached its end of life in our fiscal 2008 second quarter. If our customers switch significant portions of their business to alternative technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Future technological innovations may reduce demand for disk drives. Data storage alternatives that compete with disk drive-based data storage currently exist. These storage alternatives include semiconductor (flash) memory, tape memory and optical (DVD and CD) drives. The current core technology for disk drive data storage has been the dominant technology in the industry for many years. This technology could be replaced by an alternate technology in the future. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the computer industry adopts technology that replaces disk drives as a computer data storage medium. To meet industry requirements and remain competitive, we must continue to improve our process capabilities and develop and qualify new products. Our continued success depends on our ability to continue to develop manufacturing processes that are capable of tighter tolerances and to develop and rapidly bring to volume production new products that meet increasingly higher performance specifications. A number of risks are inherent in this process. Increasingly higher performance specifications, as well as transitions to new product platforms and materials, initially can lower our overall manufacturing yields and efficiencies. This in turn can cause us to delay or miss product shipments. We also may incur higher manufacturing costs and sales returns or we may need to change or develop new manufacturing processes. If processes change, we may need to replace, modify or design, build and install equipment. These changes may require additional capital. We may need to increase our research and development and engineering expenses to support technological advances and to develop and manufacture new products and product features. We expect future flexible circuits to require higher performance specifications and thinner or tighter lines and spaces and to incorporate new material sets. If we fail to successfully introduce new products or product features on a regular and timely basis, demand for our existing products could decline, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If higher performance specifications and tighter lines and spaces are required and we are not able to meet those requirements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We must qualify our products with our customers. The qualification process for these products can be time-consuming, complex and difficult. We cannot be sure that our products will continue to be selected for design into our customers' products. If we are unable to obtain additional customer qualifications, or if we cannot qualify our products for high volume production quantities, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to manufacture our products efficiently due to changes in demand or technology, or other unforeseen events. We manufacture a wide variety of products with different selling prices and manufacturing costs. Our product mix varies weekly as market demand changes. Any substantial variation in product mix can lead to changes in utilization of our equipment and tooling, inventory obsolescence and overstaffing in certain areas, all of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Rapid technological change in the various electronics industries we serve has led to numerous design changes and tighter performance specifications. The resulting new product designs with tighter performance specifications initially are more difficult to manufacture, could require additional capital expenditures and may require increased development and support expenses. Manufacturing yields and efficiencies also vary from product to product. Newer products typically have lower initial manufacturing yields and efficiencies as we commence volume manufacturing and thereafter ramp to full production. We have experienced sales returns in the past and as we commence volume manufacturing, as new features for our products are introduced or as new manufacturing processes are implemented, we may experience increased sales returns in the future. We cannot be sure that we will attain our output goals and be profitable with regard to any of our new products. 14 Our manufacturing plant is located in Lamphun, Thailand, which can experience severe weather. Severe weather has, at times, resulted in lower production and decreased our shipments. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures. We may not, however, be able to protect our technology adequately. In addition, competitors may be able to develop similar technology independently. Our success depends in large part on trade secrets relating to our proprietary manufacturing processes. We seek to protect these trade secrets and our other proprietary technology in part by requiring each of our employees to enter into non-disclosure and non-competition agreements. In these agreements, the employee agrees to maintain the confidentiality of all of our proprietary information and, subject to certain exceptions, to assign to us all rights in any proprietary information or technology made or contributed by the employee during his or her employment. In addition, we regularly enter into non-disclosure agreements with third parties, such as consultants, suppliers and customers. These agreements may, however, be breached, and we may not have an adequate remedy for any such breach. In addition, our competitors may otherwise learn or independently develop our trade secrets. We believe that the patents we hold, control and may obtain are valuable, but that they will not independently determine our success. Moreover, we may not receive patents for our pending patent applications, and our issued patents may not be broad enough to protect our technology adequately. We compete in industries with rapid development and technological innovation. We cannot be sure that we will be able to protect our future technology or that any patent issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or infringed. In addition, we have only limited patent rights outside the United States, and the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Defending against intellectual property claims may have a material adverse effect on our business. We and certain users of our products, have received, and may receive, communications from third parties asserting patent claims against us or our customers that may relate to our manufacturing equipment or to our products or to products that include our products as a component. If any third party makes a valid infringement claim against us and we are unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We expect that, as the number of patents issued continues to increase, the volume of intellectual property claims made against us could increase. We may have difficulty obtaining an adequate supply of raw materials at reasonable prices. We currently can obtain certain types of photoresist, a liquid compound used in the photoetching process, certain polyimide materials and certain specialty chemicals used in our manufacturing process from only one supplier of each such material. If we could not obtain the materials referred to above in the necessary quantities, with the necessary quality and at reasonable prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon the efforts, contributions and abilities of our senior management. We cannot be sure that the services of our key personnel will continue to be available to us. The loss of services of any of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our corporate restructuring plan might have a negative effect on our efforts to maintain our customers and product quality. On October 1, 2007, we announced that we are implementing a corporate restructuring plan intended to reduce costs and improve the efficiency of our operations. As part of that plan, we relocated some of our corporate business functions, including administrative, sales and engineering, to Lamphun, Thailand. We retained key Executives, sales, engineering and finance resources in the U.S. and other countries to support our customers as well as the business requirements of being a U.S. publicly listed company. There are several risks inherent in our efforts, including the risk that cost-cutting plans will impair our ability to effectively develop new products, to remain competitive, and to operate effectively, which could have a negative effect on our efforts to maintain our customers or on product quality. We may not be able to retain key employees and if we are not able to retain key employees, we may not have sufficient resources to successfully manage our business in the U.S. or in other parts of the world. 15 Our corporate restructuring could have long-term effects on our business, decreasing or slowing product development, making it more difficult for us to respond to customers and maintain product quality, and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. If any of the risks associated with our corporate restructuring plan materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We face risks from doing business internationally. We have manufacturing facilities in Thailand and design, sales and customer support operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Taiwan, Singapore, China and South Korea. Our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: • changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on product content; • changes in the laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes (including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and to withholding taxes); • differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; • foreign labor issues; • difficulties in coordinating and managing foreign operations; • potential cross border shipment delays; • instability of foreign economies and governments; • cultural barriers; and • wars and acts of terrorism. These risks associated with foreign operations may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture our product, may increase costs associated with manufacturing or other aspects of our business, and may disrupt our business or the business of our suppliers, vendors or lenders. We also cannot predict the future impact or the consequences to our business as a result from the unstable political situation in Thailand. We face risks from fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar and the cost of currency exchange. While we transact business predominantly in U.S. dollars, a large portion of our debt, sales and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in the relation of foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. To reduce the impact of certain foreign currency fluctuations, we enter into short-term forward foreign currency exchange contracts in the regular course of business. The forward exchange contracts generally require us to exchange Thailand baht for U.S. dollars or U.S. dollars for Thailand baht at maturity, at rates agreed to at inception of the contracts. These contracts are not designed as hedges, therefore, the gains and losses on foreign currency transactions are included in income as incurred. Our Thailand debt is denominated in Thai baht, and as a result, we have a significant short position in Thai baht. We made the decision in fiscal 2007 to reduce the level of forward contracts we place to purchase Thai baht to offset this short position because of the short term cash risks associated with placing these contracts. As a result, large changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the Thai baht will drive significant foreign currency valuation gains or losses as the value of our baht denominated debt increases or decreases. No assurance can be given that our strategies will prevent future currency fluctuations from having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain good relations with our employees. Our ability to conduct business would be impaired if our workforce were to be unionized or if a significant number of our specialized employees were to leave and we could not replace them with comparable personnel. Our business may be adversely affected if we need to adjust the size of our workforce due to fluctuating demand. The locations of our plants and the broad span and technological complexity of our products and processes limit the number of satisfactory engineering and other candidates for key positions. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with environmental permits. 16 Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 