Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we may currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our sales are concentrated in a small customer base and in the HDD industry. Sales to our largest customer constituted 66% of net sales for fiscal 2007, 73% for fiscal 2006 and 73% for fiscal 2005, respectively. Sales to our five largest customers constituted 99%, 94% and 93% of net sales for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Because our largest customer has increased utilization of an alternative interconnect technology that competes with our FSA product, our FSA product will reach the end of its life by the end of our fiscal 2008 second quarter and we expect sales to our largest customer to continue to decrease. The loss of FSA sales to our largest customer or the loss of one or more of our major customers or a substantial reduction in orders by any other significant customer, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various factors, many of which are outside our control, could cause a loss of customers or reduction in orders include market, economic or competitive conditions in the computer, computer peripheral, mobile communication device and high-end consumer markets, the development by a customer of the capability to produce flexible circuits in high volume for its own products, a transfer of manufacturing operations by a customer to a lower-cost country, a change in the type of interconnect or suspension assembly used by our largest customers or the failure of a customer to pay its account balance with us. Sales of our FSA and AFC products to the hard disk drive industry accounted for 84%, 80% and 76% of our net sales in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The disk drive industry is intensely competitive and technology changes rapidly. The industry's demand for disk drive components also fluctuates. The disk drive industry experiences periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect suppliers to this industry because disk drive manufacturers tend to order more disk drive components than they may need during growth periods, and reduce orders for these components during periods of contraction. Fluctuations in the hard disk drive industry may result in fluctuations in our operating results, but these fluctuations are difficult to predict and are likely to vary in the future. If our operating results are below financial analysts’ or investors’ expectations, the market price of our common stock may fall abruptly and significantly. Our largest customer has increased utilization of an alternative interconnect technology that competes with our FSA products and we expect our FSA product will reach the end of its life by the end of the fiscal 2008 second quarter. Because our largest customer has increased utilization of alternative interconnect technology that competes with our FSA product, our FSA product will reach the end of its life by the end of the fiscal 2008 second quarter and we expect revenue generated from FSA product to continue to decrease. Sales of our FSA product accounted for 49%, 58% and 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Revenue generated from the sale of our FSA product was $43.3 million, $100.4 million and $129.7 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. The value added or revenue excluding pass-through components portion of the FSA product relates to the flexible circuit of the FSA which we manufacture. FSA revenue excluding pass- through components has ranged from 34% to 37% of the FSA selling price in the past three fiscal years. The remaining non-value added portion of the FSA product selling price is related to the cost of the suspension attached to the flexible circuit. To date, increases in revenue excluding pass-through components from other products have not been sufficient to replace the decreases in FSA revenue excluding pass-through. As a result, we have taken a number of steps to reduce our cost structure including the closure of our U.S. manufacturing facilities. If we cannot increase our revenue excluding pass-through to replace the reductions in FSA revenue excluding pass-through or reduce our cost structure to correspond to decreases in revenue excluding pass-through, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. 9 Our selling prices are subject to pricing pressure from our customers and market pressure from our competitors. We deal with a limited number of large customers who are able to exert significant pricing pressure on our products. Our selling prices are affected by changes in overall demand for our products, changes in the specific products our customers buy and our products' life cycles. A typical life cycle for our products begins with higher pricing when a product is introduced and decreasing prices as it matures. To offset price decreases during a product's life, we rely primarily on higher sales volume and improving our manufacturing yield and productivity to reduce a product's cost. If we cannot reduce our manufacturing costs as prices decline during our products' life cycles, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price/performance characteristics. Competitive pressures often necessitate price reductions that adversely affect operating results. We will be required to make a continued high level of investment in product development and research, sales and marketing and ongoing customer service and support to remain competitive. There can be no assurance that existing or future competitors will not be able to duplicate our strategies or that competitive pressures faced by us will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations. Our past operating results, and our gross margins, have fluctuated from fiscal period to fiscal period. Our future operating results and gross margins may continue to fluctuate from fiscal period to fiscal period due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control and any of which could cause our stock price to fluctuate. The primary factors that affect us include the following: changes in overall demand for our products; technological changes (such as data density improvements) that reduce the number of suspension assemblies per disk drive required by disk drive makers; changes in expected customer timing of new product introductions; changes in OEM customer manufacturing yields throughout their products' life cycles; changes in the specific products our customers buy; changes in our selling prices; changes in utilization of our production capacity; changes in our infrastructure costs; changes in our manufacturing process, or problems related to our manufacturing process; changes in our manufacturing yields; changes in our production efficiency; long disruptions in operations at any of our plants for any reason; and changes in the cost of, or limits on, available materials and labor. Difficulties in forecasting demand for our products make it challenging to utilize our capacity efficiently. If customer demand for our FSAs or actuator flex, display flex, stacked memory flex or tape storage flex products weakens, or if one or more customers reduce, delay or cancel orders, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Decreases in our FSA revenue excluding pass-through have resulted in us taking a number of steps to reduce our cost structure related to underutilized capacity. These steps have included the closure of our U.S. based manufacturing facilities. If we cannot increase our revenue excluding pass-through to replace the reductions in FSA revenue excluding pass-through or reduce our cost structure to correspond to decreases in revenue excluding pass-through, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 10 We typically allow customers to change or cancel orders on short notice. We plan our production and inventory based primarily on forecasts of customer demand, including forecasts of customer pulls of product out of our just-intime inventory hubs. Our customers typically prefer a dual source supply, and therefore allocate their demand among suppliers. Both customer demand and the resulting forecasts often fluctuate substantially. These factors, among others, create an environment where scheduled production and capacity utilization can vary significantly from week to week, leading to variability in gross margins. The following factors complicate accurate capacity planning for market demand: changes in the specific products our customers buy; the pace of technological change; variability in our manufacturing yields and productivity; and long lead times for most of our plant and equipment expenditures, requiring major financial commitments well in advance of actual production requirements. We have at times increased our production capacity and the overhead that supports production based on anticipated market demand which has not always developed as expected. Our inability to plan our capacity requirements accurately, or our failure to put in place the technologies and capacity necessary to meet market demand, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competing technologies have resulted in the end of our FSA product and may reduce demand for our other products. Flexible circuit interconnects provide electrical connections between components in electrical systems and are used as a platform to support the attachment of electronic devices. While flexible circuits offer several advantages over competing printed circuit board and ceramic hybrid circuit technologies, our customers may consider changing their designs to use these alternative technologies for future applications. In particular, our largest customer has increased utilization of an alternative interconnect technology that competes with our FSA products and our FSA product is expected to reach its end of life by the end of our fiscal 2008 second quarter. If our customers switch significant portions of their business to alternative technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Future technological innovations may reduce demand for disk drives. Data storage alternatives that compete with disk drive-based data storage currently exist. These storage alternatives include semiconductor (flash) memory, tape memory and optical (DVD and CD) drives. The current core technology for disk drive data storage has been the dominant technology in the industry for many years. This technology could be replaced by an alternate technology in the future. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the computer industry adopts technology that replaces disk drives as a computer data storage medium. We have experienced annual losses from operations in the fiscal year ended September 29, 2007 and in prior years, and we may not achieve net income on a consistent basis. We had net losses of $29.1 million for fiscal 2007, $17.0 million for fiscal 2006 and $25.0 million for fiscal 2005. Whether we achieve net income on a consistent basis will depend on a number of factors, including: the level of revenue in any given period; our expense levels, particularly for manufacturing costs; our manufacturing efficiency, particularly with respect to new product introductions and high volume products; increasing revenue from existing AFC and FPD customers; cultivating new AFC and FPD customers; and the qualification of new products, including new semiconductor packaging, phone camera modules and printer flex products. To meet industry requirements and remain competitive, we must continue to improve our process capabilities and develop and qualify new products. Our continued success depends on our ability to continue to develop manufacturing processes that are capable of tighter tolerances and to develop and rapidly bring to volume production new products that meet increasingly higher performance specifications. A number of risks are inherent in this process. Increasingly higher performance specifications, as well as transitions to new product platforms and materials, initially can lower our overall manufacturing yields and efficiencies. This in turn can cause us to delay or miss product shipments. We also may incur higher manufacturing costs and sales returns or we may need to change or develop new manufacturing processes. If processes change, we may need to replace, modify or design, build and install equipment. These changes may require additional capital. 11 We may need to increase our research and development and engineering expenses to support technological advances and to develop and manufacture new products and product features. We expect future flexible circuits to require higher performance specifications and thinner or tighter lines and spaces and to incorporate new material sets. If we fail to successfully introduce new products or product features on a regular and timely basis, demand for our existing products could decline, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If higher performance specifications and tighter lines and spaces are required and we are not able to meet those requirements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We must qualify our products with our customers. The qualification process for these products can be time-consuming, complex and difficult. We cannot be sure that our products will continue to be selected for design into our customers' products. If we are unable to obtain additional customer qualifications, or if we cannot qualify our products for high volume production quantities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to manufacture our products efficiently due to changes in demand or technology, or other unforeseen events. We manufacture a wide variety of products with different selling prices and manufacturing costs. Our product mix varies weekly as market demand changes. Any substantial variation in product mix can lead to changes in utilization of our equipment and tooling, inventory obsolescence and overstaffing in certain areas, all of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Rapid technological change in the various electronics industries we serve has led to numerous design changes and tighter performance specifications. The resulting new product designs with tighter performance specifications initially are more difficult to manufacture, could require additional capital expenditures and may require increased development and support expenses. Manufacturing yields and efficiencies also vary from product to product. Newer products typically have lower initial manufacturing yields and efficiencies as we commence volume manufacturing and thereafter ramp to full production. We have experienced sales returns in the past and as we commence volume manufacturing, as new features for our products are introduced or as new manufacturing processes are implemented, we may experience increased sales returns in the future. We cannot be sure that we will attain our output goals and be profitable with regard to any of our new products. Our manufacturing plants are located in Korat and Lamphun, Thailand, which can experience severe weather. Severe weather has, at times, resulted in lower production and decreased our shipments. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures. We may not, however, be able to protect our technology adequately. In addition, competitors may be able to develop similar technology independently. Our success depends in large part on trade secrets relating to our proprietary manufacturing processes. We seek to protect these trade secrets and our other proprietary technology in part by requiring each of our employees to enter into non-disclosure and non-competition agreements. In these agreements, the employee agrees to maintain the confidentiality of all of our proprietary information and, subject to certain exceptions, to assign to us all rights in any proprietary information or technology made or contributed by the employee during his or her employment. In addition, we regularly enter into non-disclosure agreements with third parties, such as consultants, suppliers and customers. These agreements may, however, be breached, and we may not have an adequate remedy for any such breach. In addition, our competitors may otherwise learn or independently develop our trade secrets. We believe that the patents we hold, control and may obtain are valuable, but that they will not independently determine our success. Moreover, we may not receive patents for our pending patent applications, and our issued patents may not be broad enough to protect our technology adequately. We compete in industries with rapid development and technological innovation. We cannot be sure that we will be able to protect our future technology or that any patent issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or infringed. In addition, we have only limited patent rights outside the United States, and the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Defending against intellectual property claims may have a material adverse effect on our business. We and certain users of our products, have received, and may receive, communications from third parties asserting patent claims against us or our customers that may relate to our manufacturing equipment or to our products or to products that include our products as a component. If any third party makes a valid infringement claim against us and we are unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We expect that, as the number of patents issued continues to increase, the volume of intellectual property claims made against us could increase. 12 We may have difficulty obtaining an adequate supply of raw materials at reasonable prices. We currently can obtain certain types of photoresist, a liquid compound used in the photoetching process, certain polyimide materials, certain specialty chemicals used in our manufacturing process and high end suspensions from only one supplier of each such material. If we could not obtain the materials referred to above in the necessary quantities, with the necessary quality and at reasonable prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon the efforts, contributions and abilities of our senior management. We cannot be sure that the services of our key personnel will continue to be available to us. The loss of services of any of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We might not realize the benefits we are seeking from the corporate restructuring plan announced on October 1, 2007 and our corporate restructuring plan might have a negative effect on our efforts to maintain our customers and product quality. On October 1, 2007, we announced that we are implementing a corporate restructuring plan intended to reduce costs and improve the efficiency of our operations. As part of that plan, we will be relocating many of our corporate business functions, including most administrative, sales and engineering, to Lamphun, Thailand by January 2008. We expect to retain key sales and engineering resources in the U.S. to support our U.S. based customers. In addition, we plan to achieve additional cost savings by discontinuing manufacturing activity at our Korat, Thailand facility as the FSA product reaches its end of life by the end of the fiscal 2008 second quarter. There are several risks inherent in our efforts, including the risk that cost-cutting plans will impair our ability to effectively develop new products, to remain competitive, and to operate effectively, which could have a negative effect on our efforts to maintain our customers or on product quality. Further, we may not be able to complete our corporate restructuring by January 2008. We may not be able to retain key employees and if we are not able to retain key employees, we may not have sufficient resources to successfully manage our business in the U.S. or in Thailand. Our corporate restructuring could have long-term effects on our business, decreasing or slowing product development, making it more difficult for us to respond to customers and maintain product quality, and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. If any of the risks associated with our corporate restructuring plan materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We rely on our existing credit facilities to finance cash required for our operations. We have historically financed our operations primarily through cash from operating activities, sales of equity securities, bank credit facilities and employee stock option exercises. Cash and equivalents were $10.5 million at September 29, 2007 and $9.8 million at September 30, 2006. Long-term debt was $15.5 million at September 29, 2007 and $19.8 million at September 30, 2006 less current maturities of $11.0 and $9.0, respectively. During the years ended September 29, 2007 and September 30, 2006, the Company incurred losses from continuing operations of $29.1 million and $17.0 million, respectively. Operating activities used $17.6 million and provided $18.1 million during the years ended September 29, 2007 and September 30, 2006, respectively. As of September 29, 2007, the Company had a working capital deficit of $12.2 million. Total unused debt availability as of September 29, 2007 was approximately $8.0 million under the Company’s long-term Thailand credit facilities and approximately $14.6 million under its short-term packing credit and working capital facilities. We believe that with the existing Thailand credit facilities and cash generated from operations, we will have adequate funds to support projected working capital and capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Any change to our existing credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 We may not be able to obtain the capital we need to maintain or grow our business. Our ability to execute our long-term strategy may depend on our ability to obtain additional long-term debt and equity capital. We have no commitments for additional borrowings, other than our existing credit facilities, or for sales of equity, other than under our existing employee benefit plans. We cannot determine the precise amount and timing of our funding needs at this time. We may be unable to obtain future additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we fail to comply with certain covenants relating to our indebtedness, we may need to refinance our indebtedness to repay it. We also may need to refinance our indebtedness at maturity. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on favorable terms to refinance our indebtedness. The following factors could affect our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all: our results of operations; general economic conditions and conditions in the disk drive industry; the perception in the capital markets of our business; our ratio of debt to equity; our financial condition; our business prospects; and changes in interest rates. In addition, certain covenants relating to our existing indebtedness impose certain limitations on additional indebtedness. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may have to curtail our capital expenditures and reduce research and development expenditures. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Servicing our existing debt may constrain our future operations. Our ability to satisfy our obligations to pay interest and to repay debt is dependent on our future performance. Our performance depends, in part, on prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, including factors beyond our control. To the extent that we use a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal of, and interest on our indebtedness, that cash flow will not be available to fund future operations and capital expenditures. We cannot be sure that our operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund our future capital expenditure and debt service requirements or to fund future operations. Our financing agreements contain restrictive covenants with which we may not be able to comply. We have entered into financing agreements that contain restrictive financial covenants. These covenants require us, among other things, to maintain specified levels of net income, tangible net worth and interest and leverage ratios, and also impose certain limitations on additional indebtedness, leases, guarantees and the payment of dividends. Our ability to comply with restrictive financial covenants depends upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance depends, in part, on general industry conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot be sure that we will be able to comply with these covenants in the future, and we may not be successful in renegotiating our financing agreements or otherwise obtaining relief from the covenants. If we default under some or all of our financing agreements, our lenders may require that we immediately repay the full outstanding amount we owe to them. In such event, we may have to pursue alternative financing arrangements. If we are not in compliance with financial covenants in our financing agreements at the end of any fiscal year, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully address problems encountered in connection with any future acquisitions. We expect to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our technical capabilities, complement our current products and services, or expand the breadth of our markets. Acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition, including accounting charges and transaction expenses; problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations; diversion of management's attention from our core business; adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities our existing shareholders would be diluted. 14 We face risks from doing business internationally. We have manufacturing facilities in Thailand and design, sales and customer support operations in the United Kingdom, Taiwan, Singapore, China and South Korea. Our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on product content; changes in the laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes (including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and to withholding taxes); differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; foreign labor issues; difficulties in coordinating and managing foreign operations; potential cross border shipment delays; instability of foreign economies and governments; cultural barriers; and wars and acts of terrorism. On September 19, 2006, the Royal Thai military overthrew Thailand’s prime minister and elected government. Although the coup has not impacted our Thailand operations, we cannot predict the future impact of the coup or the consequences to our business of instability in Thailand. Any of the risks associated with international operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks from fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar and the cost of currency exchange. While we transact business predominantly in U.S. dollars, a large portion of our debt, sales and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in the relation of foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. To reduce the impact of certain foreign currency fluctuations, we enter into short-term forward foreign currency exchange contracts in the regular course of business. The forward exchange contracts generally require us to exchange Thailand baht for U.S. dollars or U.S. dollars for Thailand baht at maturity, at rates agreed to at inception of the contracts. These contracts are not designed as hedges, therefore, the gains and losses on foreign currency transactions are included in income as incurred. No assurance can be given that our strategies will prevent future currency fluctuations from having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A prolonged economic downturn could materially harm our business. Negative trends in the general economy, including trends resulting from actual or threatened military action by the United States and threats of terrorist attacks on the United States and abroad, could cause a decrease in consumer and business spending in general. We may not be able to maintain good relations with our employees. Our ability to conduct business would be impaired if our workforce were to be unionized or if a significant number of our specialized employees were to leave and we could not replace them with comparable personnel. Our business may be adversely affected if we need to adjust the size of our workforce due to fluctuating demand. The locations of our plants and the broad span and technological complexity of our products and processes limit the number of satisfactory engineering and other candidates for key positions. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with environmental permits. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our Independent Registered Public Accountants addressing these assessments. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. 15 We currently fail to meet one of Nasdaq’s listing requirements and if our common stock is delisted it may then become illiquid. Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Market. On November 21, 2007, we received a Staff Deficiency Letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market which stated that for the last 30 consecutive business days the bid price of our common stock has closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued inclusion on the Nasdaq Global Market. Therefore, we are not in compliance with the requirements for continued listing of the Nasdaq Global Market. If, at anytime before May 19, 2008, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, the staff of The Nasdaq Stock Market will provide us written notification that we have achieved compliance with this requirement for continued listing. If we fail to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement or if at any time we fail to satisfy each of the other requirements for continued listing, our common stock will be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. If delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market, our common stock will likely be quoted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called “pink sheets” or quoted in the OTC Bulletin Board. In addition, our common stock would be subject to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to “penny stocks.” These rules require brokers who sell securities that are subject to the rules, and who sell to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors, to complete required documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with information concerning the risks of trading in the security. Consequently, we believe an investor would find it more difficult to buy or sell our common stock in the open market if it were quoted on the over-the-counter market or the OTC Bulletin Board. There can be no assurance that our common stock may be sold without a significant negative impact on the price per share that may make it more difficult for us to meet the minimum bid price requirement or that any market will continue to exist for our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 