ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Following are some specific factors that should be considered for a better understanding of our operations and financial condition. These factors and the other matters discussed herein are important factors that could cause actual results or outcomes for us to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements included elsewhere in this document. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all of the factors, nor can it assess the effect of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Risks Related to Our Business We currently have no product revenues and cannot estimate when product revenues may commence. To date, we have devoted significant financial resources to research and development of our products. Until, and if, we receive approval from the FDA and from regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions for our product candidates, we cannot sell our products and we will not have product revenues. As a result, we have generated significant operating losses. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $61.6 million, excluding approximately $3.6 million deemed dividend; although, $18.6 million of this amount was related to a non-cash charge we incurred in connection with a research and development write-off related to our formation. We used substantial amounts of cash to date and expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we expand our infrastructure and research and development activities. We will fund our operations and capital expenditures from cash on hand, government grants and contracts and additional financing. We expect to need additional financing to operate our business, which financings may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all, thereby causing dilution to existing holders or reduction of research activities. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to support the current operating plan for at least through March 31, 2007. However, funding requirements may change as a result of many factors, including delays in development activities, underestimates of budget items, unanticipated cash requirements, increased regulatory requirements with attendant time delays, limitation of development of new potential products, future product opportunities with collaborators, future licensing opportunities and future business combinations. Consequently, we may need to seek additional sources of financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. 23 Index If needed, we would seek to raise additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing debt securities, we would incur substantial costs relating to interest payments, may be required to pledge assets as security for the debt and may be constrained by restrictive financial and/or operational covenants. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds on acceptable terms, we may be unable to complete planned pre-clinical and clinical trials or obtain approval of our product candidates from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development, curtail operations, reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts and lose attractive business opportunities. We are not currently profitable and may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flows for the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, we had operating losses of $3.2 million, $7.0 million and $10.6 million, respectively. Our current “burn rate” (amount of cash we spend to fund operations) is approximately $900,000 per month. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of the product candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures for the next several years and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we: · continue to undertake pre-clinical development and clinical trials for the product candidates; · seek regulatory approvals for the product candidates; · implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; · lease additional office facilities; · hire additional personnel; and · expand research and development activities. We also expect to experience negative cash flows for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We may not be able to generate these revenues or achieve profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our common stock. We have a limited operating history upon which to base an investment decision. We are a development-stage company and have not yet demonstrated our ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any of the product candidates. The successful commercialization of our product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: · continuing to undertake preclinical development and clinical trials; · participating in regulatory approval processes; · formulating and manufacturing products; and · conducting sales and marketing activities. 24 Index Our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing, acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology and undertaking pre-clinical trials and clinical trials of our principal product candidates. These operations provide a limited basis to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates and the advisability of investing in our common stock. If we fail to obtain or maintain the necessary U.S. or worldwide regulatory approvals for the product candidates, we will be unable to commercialize them. Government regulations in the U.S. and other countries have a significant impact on our business and affect the research and development, manufacture and marketing of our products. We will require FDA approval to commercialize our product candidates in the U.S. and approvals from similar regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our product candidates in those jurisdictions. In order to obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates, we must submit to the FDA a New Drug Application (“NDA”), demonstrating that the product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal testing, which are referred to as pre-clinical studies, as well as human studies, which are referred to as clinical trials. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may either refuse to accept our application, or may decide after review of our application that the data is insufficient to allow approval of the relevant product. If the FDA does not accept or approve our application, it may require us to conduct additional pre-clinical testing, manufacturing studies or clinical studies and submit that data before it will reconsider our application. The FDA may also require us to perform post-approval studies. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: · delay commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenues from, the product candidates; · impose costly procedures; and · diminish competitive advantages that we may otherwise enjoy. Even if we comply with all FDA requests, the FDA may ultimately reject one or more of our NDAs. We cannot be certain that we will ever obtain regulatory clearance for any of our product candidates. Failure to obtain FDA approval of any of our principal product candidates will severely undermine our business by reducing the number of potential salable products and, therefore, corresponding product revenues. Also, the FDA might approve one or more of the product candidates but may also approve competitors’ products possessing characteristics that offer their own treatment advantages. Before we submit our NDAs, we plan to request waivers or deferrals from the requirement under the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003 to include an assessment, generally based on clinical study data, of the safety and efficacy of our drugs for all relevant pediatric populations. We can make no assurances that the FDA will grant our waiver or deferral requests. If we are required to conduct clinical research studies in pediatric patients, this could delay the development and possible approval of our products and increase the overall costs of product approvals. In addition, even after these product candidates are marketed, the products and the manufacturers are subject to continual vigilance and review by applicable regulatory authorities, including FDA adverse event reporting requirements and FDA requirements governing product distribution, advertising and promotion. At any stage of development or commercialization, the discovery of previously unknown problems with the product candidates, our own manufacturing or the manufacture by third-party manufacturers may result in restrictions on the products or the manufacture, including withdrawal of the product from the market. In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory, pricing and reimbursement authorities before we can commercialize and market our drugs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above. Pursuing 25 Index foreign regulatory approvals will be time-consuming and expensive. The regulations vary among countries, and foreign regulatory authorities may require different or additional clinical trials than we conducted to obtain FDA approval for our product candidates. We cannot give any assurance that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize the product candidates for sale outside the United States. Because we have limited foreign regulatory, clinical and commercial resources, we may plan to commercialize some products internationally through collaborative relationships with foreign partners. Future partners are critical to our international success. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements with appropriate partners for important foreign markets on acceptable terms, or at all. Future collaborations with foreign partners may not be effective or profitable for us. The product candidates contain controlled substances, the supply of which may be limited by U.S. government policy and the availability of which may generate public controversy, thereby reducing or restricting any future marketing arrangements or sales. The active ingredients in some of the current product candidates, including morphine and ketamine, are regulated by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), as Schedule II or III substances under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. Most states place similar controls over these products under the Board of Pharmacy or similar agency. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment (including import and export), storage, sale and use are subject to the highest degree of regulation and accountability. For example, all regular Schedule II drugs must be prescribed by a physician, or under a physician’s direction, and may not be refilled within 30 days. Furthermore, the amount of Schedule II substances we can obtain for clinical trials, manufacturing and commercial distribution is limited by the DEA under a quota system, and our allotment may not be sufficient to complete clinical trials or meet commercial demand, if any. Products containing controlled substances may generate public controversy. The World Health Organization advocates balance in national analgesic policies, so as to meet medical needs for opioids and other controlled substances while reducing opportunities for drug abuse, misuse and diversion. Opponents of these products, however, may seek restrictions on marketing and withdrawal of any regulatory approvals. In addition, these opponents may seek to generate negative publicity in an effort to persuade the medical community to reject these products. Political pressures and adverse publicity could lead to delays in the introduction and marketing of the product candidates, increased expenses for marketing, and/or restricted availability of its product candidates. Our contract manufacturers that make and handle controlled substances also are subject to inspections by DEA and state authorities to evaluate ongoing compliance with security and other requirements under relevant federal and state controlled substance law and regulations. We do not have control over the contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure to comply with applicable law and regulatory requirements may result in action such as civil penalties, refusal to renew necessary registrations, or initiating proceedings to revoke those registrations and, in certain circumstances, criminal proceedings. If one of these manufacturers has its registration revoked, denied or suspended, it can no longer lawfully possess or distribute controlled substances, thereby possibly resulting in a negative impact on our business. The product candidates are in the middle-to-late stages of clinical trials and there is no assurance that final approval will be obtained. The product candidates may never be successfully marketed or manufactured. The three principal product candidates, Dyloject™, Rylomine™ and PMI-100/150, are in the middle-to-late stages of clinical testing on a limited number of patients. For some medical uses for which we hope to market the product, to date there have been few or no studies to determine the efficacies of the specific product candidates. It also is possible that the FDA will disagree with our current clinical and pre-clinical research plans and require us to conduct more extensive studies than we currently anticipate before that agency will consider our products for marketing approval. Some of our future studies involve drug exposures for durations that are significantly longer than we have tested thus far. The longer-term studies could reveal safety or other issues that could have an adverse impact on the ability to gain marketing approval. The FDA has raised certain issues with respect to some of the products, such as irritation seen in animals treated with the diclofenac product candidate and known toxicities of cyclodextrins other than the hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin that is employed to solubilize diclofenac in our product candidate. We need to commit substantial time and additional resources in order to conduct further clinical trials before we can submit an 26 Index NDA with respect to any of these product candidates. We cannot predict with any certainty if or when we might submit an NDA for regulatory approval of any of our product candidates. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement which could affect allocations of funds and time from other programs. Clinical trials are expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. Further, the medical, regulatory and commercial environment for pharmaceutical products changes quickly and often in ways that we may not be able to accurately predict. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of the product candidates will take several more years to complete. Furthermore, as failure can occur at any stage of the trials, we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including: · changes to applicable regulatory requirements; · unforeseen safety issues; · determination of dosing issues; · lack of effectiveness in the clinical trials; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; · inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; · inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; · inability to maintain a supply of the investigational drug in sufficient quantities to support the trials; and · suspension or termination of clinical trials for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or changes in the clinical care protocols and standards of care within the institutions in which our trials take place. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend the clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our Investigational New Drug Application (“IND”) submissions or the conduct of these trials. A number of companies in the biotechnology and drug development industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials despite promising results in earlier trials. In the end, we may be unable to develop marketable products. The results of the clinical trials may not support the product candidate claims. Even if the clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that the results will support the product candidate claims or that the FDA or government authorities will agree with our conclusions regarding such results. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that the product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, the clinical trials will delay the filing of NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize the product candidates and generate product revenues. In addition, the clinical trials involve a small patient population. Because of the small sample size, the results of these clinical trials may not be indicative of future results. 27 Index Delays in patient enrollment for clinical trials could increase costs and delay regulatory approvals. The rate of completion of clinical trials will depend on the rate of patient enrollment. There may be substantial competition to enroll patients in clinical trials for other products in development. This competition has delayed the clinical trials of other biotechnology and drug development companies in the past. In addition, ongoing improvements in drug therapy, particularly for pain management drugs, may make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in our clinical trials as the eligible patient population may choose to enroll in clinical trials sponsored by other companies or choose other recently-approved therapies. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and delays in regulatory approvals. Physicians and patients may not accept and use our drugs which would cause a change in the business strategy with attendant delays and needs for capital for any new business, and possibly the cessation of business. Even if the FDA approves our drugs, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of these drugs will depend upon a number of factors including: · perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of these drugs and the use of controlled substances; · cost-effectiveness of these drugs relative to competing products; · availability of reimbursement for the products from government or other healthcare payers; and · effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. Because we expect sales of the current product candidates, if approved, to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. Our ability to generate product revenues will be diminished if the drugs sell for inadequate prices or patients are unable to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement thereby reducing future levels of revenues and the ability to achieve profitability. Our ability to commercialize the drugs, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from: · government and health administration authorities; · private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and · other healthcare payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Healthcare payors, including Medicare, routinely challenge the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other healthcare payers increasingly attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. Even if the product candidates are approved by the FDA, insurance coverage may not be available, and reimbursement levels may be inadequate to cover such drugs. If government and other healthcare payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for any of the products, the post-approval market acceptance of our products could be diminished. 28 Index The drug-development programs depend in large part upon third-party researchers who are outside our control. We depend upon independent investigators and collaborators, such as universities, medical institutions and clinical research organizations, to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. These collaborators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. These investigators may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to these drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. These collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If these collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. We will rely exclusively on third parties to manufacture our product candidates, without any direct control over timing for production and delivery, thereby possibly affecting any future revenues. We have relied exclusively on a limited number of vendors to supply raw materials and finished goods for our product candidates, and the loss of one of these parties could harm our business. The FDA and regulatory agencies in other countries also periodically inspect manufacturing facilities, including third parties who manufacture products or active ingredients for us. The FDA may not believe that the chosen manufacturers have sufficient experience making the dosage forms that we have contracted with them to produce, and may subject those manufacturers to increased scrutiny. Pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities must comply with applicable good manufacturing practice standards, and manufacturers usually must invest substantial funds, time and effort to ensure full compliance with these standards. We will not have control over our contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in sanctions, fines, delays or suspensions of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, manufacturing interruptions, costly corrective actions, injunctions, adverse publicity against us and our products and possible criminal prosecutions. If we are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials or if there is a significant increase in the price of raw materials, our business would be seriously harmed. If any of the product candidates receives FDA approval, we expect to rely on one or more third-party contractors to supply our drugs. If the current or future third-party suppliers cease to supply the drugs in the quantity and quality we need to manufacture the drug candidates or if the current or future third-party suppliers are unable to comply with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations, the qualification of additional or replacement suppliers could be a lengthy process, and there may not be adequate alternatives to meet our needs, which would negatively affect our business. We may not be able to obtain the necessary drugs used in our products in the future on a timely basis, if at all. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow the business may be harmed. We must hire and retain skilled employees in a tight labor market and will be subject to high labor costs and related increased employment expenses. We will also need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in preclinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing, finance and accounting and sales and marketing. We will compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals, particularly in the New York City and the Boston areas, is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. Skilled employees in the industry are in great demand. We are competing for employees against companies located in the New York and Boston metropolitan areas that are more established than we are and have the ability to pay more cash compensation than we do. We will require scientific personnel in many fields, some of which are addressed by relatively few companies. As a result, depending upon the success and the timing of clinical tests, we may experience difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees, particularly scientists. If we are unable to hire and retain skilled scientists, our business, financial condition, operating results and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. 29 Index We currently have no designated sales and marketing staff, nor any internal sales or distribution capabilities. In order to commercialize the products, if any are approved, we intend to develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to target particular markets for our products, as well as make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us with respect to other markets for our products. We may not be able to establish these capabilities internally or hire sales personnel with appropriate expertise to market and sell the products, if approved. In addition, even if we are able to identify one or more acceptable collaborators to perform these services for us, we may not be able to enter into any collaborative arrangements on favorable terms, or at all. If we enter into any collaborative arrangements for the marketing or sale of our products, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we marketed and sold our products ourself. In addition, any revenues we receive would depend upon the efforts of our collaborators, which may not be adequate due to lack of attention or resource commitments, management turnover, change of strategic focus, business combinations or other factors outside of our control. Depending upon the terms of the collaboration, the remedies we may have against an underperforming collaborator may be limited. If we were to terminate the relationship, it may be difficult or impossible to find a replacement collaborator on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues, and our business will suffer. The market for our product candidates is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. If the product candidates receive FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than the products, or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If the products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues, and our business will suffer. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have prescription analgesics already approved or in development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together, with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs and have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: · developing drugs; · undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; · formulating and manufacturing drugs; and · launching, marketing and selling drugs. The United States Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to challenge patent validity or create modified, noninfringed versions of a drug in order to facilitate the approval of abbreviated new drug application for generic substitutes. These same incentives also encourage manufacturers to submit new drug applications, known as 505(b)(2) applications, that rely on literature and clinical data not generated by or for the drug sponsor. In light of these incentives and especially if our products are commercially successful, other manufacturers may submit and gain approval for either an abbreviated new drug application or a 505(b)(2) application that will compete directly with our products. Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Companies that currently sell both generic and proprietary opioid formulations include among others Abbott Laboratories, Alza Pharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca, Cephalon, Endo Pharmaceuticals, Elkins-Sinn, Janssen 30 Index Pharmaceutica, McNeil Consumer Healthcare, Purdue Pharma, Roxane Laboratories and Watson Laboratories. Alternative technologies are being developed to improve or replace the use of opioids for pain management, several of which are in clinical trials or have recently been approved by the FDA. These alternatives include Elan’s Prialt, Pfizer’s Lyrica, and combination products from Endo Pharmaceuticals. In addition, companies pursuing distinct but related fields such as neuromodulation devices represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than us. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel, parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We are aware of a third party which could allege that certain uses of our product candidates infringe upon certain of such third party’s proprietary rights. Although we do not intend to market our product candidates for such uses and we are not aware of any such uses currently in practice, we may not be able to avoid claims made by such third party as a result of our product candidates being used by consumers for purposes other than as marketed by us. We hold certain exclusive patent rights, including rights under U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications as well as rights under foreign patents and patent applications. We anticipate filing additional patent applications both in the U.S. and in other countries, as appropriate. However, we cannot predict: · the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors including whether third parties will find ways to challenge, invalidate or otherwise circumvent our patents; · if and when patents will issue; · whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications; or · whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose. Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors to enter into agreements which prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of these trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired, and our business and competitive position would suffer. If we infringe the rights of third parties, we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages, and incur substantial costs in defending litigations. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs, and we may have to: 31 Index · obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; · stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; · pay damages; or · defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our management resources. We may be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, storing, handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products may require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. Although side effects from clinical trials thus far have been generally limited to symptoms known to be associated with these well-established medications, such as dysphoria (a feeling of malaise), and nausea, we may be held liable if any more serious adverse reactions from the use of our product candidates occurs. The product candidates involve new methods of delivery for potent drugs that require greater precautions to prevent unintended use, especially since they are designed for patients’ easy self-use rather than for administration by medical professionals. For example, the FDA may require us to develop a comprehensive risk management program for our product candidates to reduce the risk of improper patient selection, diversion and abuse. The failure of these measures could result in harmful side effects or death. As a result, consumers, regulatory agencies, pharmaceutical companies or others might make claims against us. If we cannot successfully defend ourself against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of the product candidates. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with corporate collaborators. We currently carry clinical trial insurance but do not carry product liability insurance. We, or any corporate collaborators, may not be able to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future corporate collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate if any claim arises. Risk Related to Management We may not successfully manage our growth, thereby preventing achievement of our business plan. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational, and financial resources. To manage this growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems, and hire and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business would be harmed. 32 Index We rely on key executive officers and scientific and medical advisors whose knowledge of our business and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. We are highly dependent on Daniel B. Carr, MD, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Medical Officer, as well as other executive officers, including Fred Mermelstein, PhD, President, and Douglas A. Hamilton, Chief Operating and Chief Financial Officer. (In February 2006, the Company announced that Douglas A. Hamilton would be stepping down as Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer but would remain in his positions until a successor is named.) We do not have “key person” life insurance policies for any of our officers. We do not have employment agreements with any person other than with Dr. Carr. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise of any of our key personnel could result in delays in product development, loss of customers and sales, if any, and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect operating results. In addition, we rely on members of our scientific advisory board and consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of the members of our scientific advisory board and our clinical advisors have other jobs and commitments and may be subject to non-disclosure obligations that may limit their availability to work with us. Market Risks The market price of our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board may fluctuate significantly which may cause certain investors to avoid purchasing our shares. The market price of our common stock traded on the OTC Bulletin Board may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: · announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; · results of the testing and regulatory approval of our products; · developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals and concerns; · quarterly variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations; · changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · developments in our industry; and · general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our own operating performance. Further, the OTC Bulletin Board market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of such shares, which price volatility might be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low. There is only a volatile limited market for our common stock that may accelerate price swings. Recent history relating to the market prices of public companies indicates that, from time to time, there may be periods of extreme volatility in the market price of our securities because of factors unrelated to the operating performance of, or announcements concerning, the issuers of the affected stock, and especially for stock traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Our common stock is not actively traded and the bid and asked prices for our common stock have fluctuated significantly. For the past two fiscal years, the common stock traded on the OTC Bulletin Board from a high of $4.20 to a low of $0.15 per share, and since the December 2004 acquisition of IDDS the market prices of the common stock have ranged from $1.90 to $4.20 per share. See Item 5, “Market For 33 Index Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” General market price declines, market volatility, especially for low priced securities, or factors related to the general economy or to us in the future could adversely affect the price of the common stock. We may be subject to “Penny Stock” regulations that would restrict brokerage firms in recommending our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define Penny Stocks to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. As of March 15, 2006, the closing price for our common stock was $3.75 per share and therefore it may be designated a “Penny Stock.” Although since December 6, 2004, we have met the net worth exemption from the “Penny Stock’ definition, no assurance can be given that such exemption will be maintained. As a Penny Stock, our common stock may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act of 1934, or the Penny Stock Rule. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the penny stock restrictions. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock restrictions, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. We plan to list our common stock on the American Stock Exchange. Assuming such listing, we will no longer be subject to the penny stock rules. No assurance can be given that our listing application will be approved or that even if so listed we can maintain the listing standards. We have never paid dividends and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the future. We do not believe that we will pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the future. We have never declared any cash dividends on our common stock, and if we were to become profitable, it would be expected that all of such earnings would be retained to support our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Currently, we do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff with respect to our prior filings. ITEM 