ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business We currently have no significant product revenues and cannot be certain when significant product revenues will commence, if ever. To date, we have devoted significant financial resources to research and development of our products. We have only received marketing authorization approval with respect to Dyloject in the United Kingdom. Until, and unless, we receive approval from the FDA and from regulatory authorities in other foreign jurisdictions for our product candidates, we cannot sell our products in such countries and we will not have significant product revenues. As a result, we have generated significant operating losses. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $110.5 million, excluding an approximately $3.6 million deemed dividend; although $18.6 million of this amount was related to a non-cash charge for the issuance of common stock in connection with the acquisition of a license. We have used substantial amounts of cash to date and expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we expand our infrastructure and research and development activities. We expect to fund our operations and capital expenditures primarily from cash on hand and additional financing sources. If we cannot obtain additional financing, our product development and commercialization efforts may be reduced or discontinued. Although we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to support the current operating plan through at least September 30, 2008, we will need additional financing to support our operating plan 23 Table of Contents thereafter. Our funding requirements may change as a result of many factors, including delays in development activities, underestimates of budget items, unanticipated cash requirements, increased regulatory requirements with attendant time delays, limitation of development of new potential products, future product opportunities with collaborators, future licensing opportunities and future business combinations. Consequently, we will need to seek additional sources of financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We plan to raise additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings and/or additional corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. The issuance of additional equity securities in connection with any financing will cause dilution to our shareholders and such an issuance or the perception that we will make such an issuance could have a material negative effect on the price of our common stock. If we raise additional capital by issuing debt securities, we would incur substantial costs relating to interest payments, may be required to pledge assets as security for the debt and may be constrained by restrictive financial and/or operational covenants. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds on acceptable terms, we may be unable to complete planned pre-clinical and clinical trials or obtain approval of our product candidates from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development, curtail operations, reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts and lose attractive business opportunities. These actions would likely reduce the price of our common stock. We have incurred significant losses and may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flows for the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, we had net losses of $10.6 million, $17.8 million and $31.0 million, respectively. Our net loss for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007 was materially increased as compared to prior fiscal years in part due to our adoption of the amendment issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting For Stock-Based Compensation (“SFAS No. 123R”). As discussed in Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we adopted SFAS No. 123R effective January 1, 2006. SFAS No. 123R eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, and instead requires us to recognize compensation expense using a fair-value based method for costs related to share-based payments including stock options. Our adoption of SFAS No. 123R is expected to materially impact our financial position and results of operations for future periods. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures for the next several years and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we: • continue to undertake pre-clinical development and clinical trials for our product candidates; • seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; • lease additional office facilities; • hire additional personnel to advance commercialization; and • expand research and development activities. We also expect to experience negative cash flows for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We may not be able to generate these revenues or achieve profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history upon which to base an investment decision. We are a development-stage company and have not yet demonstrated our ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any of our product candidates. The successful commercialization of our product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: • continuing to undertake preclinical development and clinical trials; • participating in regulatory approval processes; • formulating and manufacturing products; • entering into arrangements with manufacturers; and • conducting sales and marketing activities either directly or through distributors. Our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing, acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology and undertaking pre-clinical trials and clinical trials of our principal product candidates. Although we have begun to establish a sales force in the U.K., these operations provide a limited basis to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates and the advisability of investing in our common stock. We cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations and compliance with newly-enacted regulations will result in increased costs and management time. As a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, some of which have only recently been adopted, and all of which are subject to change. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. We also cannot assure you that our ongoing assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting will not uncover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we could correct any material weakness or significant deficiencies to allow our management to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to attest that such assessment will have been fairly stated in any report to be filed with the SEC or attest that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. Since late 2004, our SEC reporting status has evolved from “small business” issuer to “non-accelerated” full reporting issuer to “accelerated” filer becoming subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. By reason of this reporting status, as well as new disclosure rules of the SEC and the American Stock Exchange, our legal and financial compliance costs have substantially increased and a significant portion of management’s time has been allocated in order to comply with these rules, especially with respect to compiling the initial comprehensive documentation of our internal controls, and then evaluating and testing the operating effectiveness of our internal controls systems in seeking compliance with Section 404. If we fail to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or any other regulations, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and might become subject to investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such investigations could be costly, and would likely divert management’s attention and resources. Any inability to meet such compliance could be detrimental to investors’ confidence in us, and thereby adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, any failure to comply with applicable regulations could also result in a range of consequences, including restrictions on our ability to sell equity or otherwise raise capital funds, suspension or termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. If we fail to obtain or maintain the necessary U.S. or foreign regulatory approvals for our product candidates, we will be unable to commercialize them. Government regulations in the U.S. and other countries have a significant impact on our business and affect the research and development, manufacture and marketing of our products. We will require FDA approval to commercialize our product candidates in the U.S. and approvals from similar regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our product candidates in those jurisdictions. 25 Table of Contents In order to obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates, we must submit to the FDA an NDA, demonstrating that our product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal testing, which are referred to as pre-clinical studies, as well as human studies, which are referred to as clinical trials. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may either refuse to accept our application, or may decide after review of our application that the data is insufficient to allow approval of the relevant product. If the FDA does not accept or approve our application, it may require us to conduct additional pre-clinical testing, manufacturing studies or clinical studies and submit that data before it will reconsider our application. The FDA may also require us to perform post-approval studies. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • delay commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenues from, our product candidates; • impose costly procedures; and • diminish competitive advantages that we may otherwise enjoy. Even if we comply with all FDA requests, the FDA may ultimately reject one or more of our NDAs. We cannot be certain that we will ever obtain regulatory clearance for any of our product candidates. Failure to obtain FDA approval of any of our principal product candidates will severely undermine our business by reducing the number of potential salable products and, therefore, corresponding product revenues. Also, the FDA might approve one or more of our product candidates but may also approve competitors’ products possessing characteristics that offer their own treatment advantages. Before we submit our NDAs, we plan to request waivers or deferrals from the requirement under the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003 to include an assessment, generally based on clinical study data, of the safety and efficacy of our drugs for all relevant pediatric populations. We can make no assurances that the FDA will grant our waiver or deferral requests. If we are required to conduct clinical research studies in pediatric patients, this could delay the development and possible approval of our products and increase the overall costs of product approvals. In addition, even after these product candidates are marketed, our products and the manufacturers are subject to continual vigilance and review by applicable regulatory authorities, including FDA adverse event reporting requirements and FDA requirements governing product distribution, advertising and promotion. At any stage of development or commercialization, the discovery of previously unknown problems with our product candidates, our own manufacturing or the manufacture by third-party manufacturers may result in restrictions on our products or their manufacture, including withdrawal of our product from the market. In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory, pricing and reimbursement authorities before we can commercialize and market our drugs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above and additional risks associated with pricing and reimbursements. Pursuing foreign regulatory approvals will be time-consuming and expensive. The regulations vary among countries, and foreign regulatory authorities may require different or additional clinical trials than we conducted to obtain FDA approval for our product candidates. Other than the marketing authorization approved for Dyloject in the U.K., we cannot give any assurance that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates for sale outside the United States. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions on a timely basis, or at all. Because we have limited foreign regulatory, clinical and commercial resources, we may plan to commercialize some products internationally through collaborative relationships with foreign partners. Future partners are critical to our international success. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements with appropriate partners for important foreign markets on acceptable terms, or at all. Future collaborations with foreign partners may not be effective or profitable for us. 26 Table of Contents Our product candidates contain controlled substances, the supply of which may be limited by U.S. government policy and the availability of which may generate public controversy, thereby reducing or restricting any future marketing arrangements or sales. The active ingredients in some of our current product candidates, including morphine and ketamine, are regulated by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), as Schedule II or III substances under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. Most states place similar controls over these products under a state Board of Pharmacy or similar agency. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment (including import and export), storage, sale and use are subject to the highest degree of regulation and accountability. For example, all regular Schedule II drugs must be prescribed by a physician, or under a physician’s direction, and may not be refilled within 30 days. Furthermore, the amount of Schedule II substances we can obtain for clinical trials, manufacturing and commercial distribution is limited by the DEA under a quota system, and our allotment may not be sufficient to complete clinical trials or meet commercial demand, if any. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing our procurement quota of such substances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Products containing controlled substances have been known to and may continue to generate public controversy. The World Health Organization advocates balance in national analgesic policies, so as to meet medical needs for opioids (such as morphine) and other controlled substances (such as ketamine) while reducing opportunities for drug abuse, misuse and diversion. Opponents of these products, however, may seek restrictions on marketing and withdrawal of any regulatory approvals, based upon concerns about the actual or potential misuse of such products. In addition, these opponents may seek to generate negative publicity in an effort to persuade the medical community to reject these products. Political pressures and adverse publicity could lead to delays in the introduction and marketing of our product candidates, increased expenses for marketing, and/or restricted availability of our product candidates. Our contract manufacturers that make and handle controlled substances also are subject to inspections by DEA and state authorities to evaluate ongoing compliance with security and other requirements under relevant federal and state controlled substance laws and regulations. We do not have control over the contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements may result in action such as civil penalties, refusal to renew necessary registrations, or initiating proceedings to revoke those registrations and, in certain circumstances, criminal proceedings. If one of these manufacturers has its registration revoked, denied or suspended, it can no longer lawfully possess or distribute controlled substances, thereby possibly resulting in a negative impact on our business. Health care reform measures and other statutory or regulatory changes could adversely affect our business. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive regulation, and from time to time legislative bodies and governmental agencies consider changes to such regulations that could have significant impact on industry participants. For example, in light of recent highly-publicized safety issues regarding certain drugs that had received marketing approval, the U.S. Congress is considering various proposals regarding drug safety, including some which would require additional safety studies and monitoring and could make drug development more costly. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to safety or other aspects of drug development may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical companies are also affected by the efforts of governments, third-party payors and others to contain or reduce the costs of health care to consumers. In the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system, such as proposals relating to the reimportation of drugs into the U.S. from other countries (where they are then sold at a lower price) and government control of prescription drug pricing. The pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our share price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic collaborations or licenses. Our product candidates are in the late stages of clinical trials in the United States, and there is no assurance that final approval will be obtained. Our product candidates may never be successfully marketed or manufactured. Our three principal product 27 Table of Contents candidates, Dyloject, PMI-150 (ketamine) and Rylomine, are in the late stages of clinical testing in the U.S. on a limited number of patients. For some medical uses for which we hope to market our products, to date there have been few or no studies to determine the efficacies of the specific product candidates. It is possible that the FDA will disagree with our current clinical and pre-clinical research plans and require us to conduct more extensive studies than we currently anticipate before that agency will consider our products for marketing approval. Some of our future studies involve drug exposures for durations that are significantly longer than we have tested thus far. The longer-term studies could reveal safety or other issues that could have an adverse impact on the ability to gain marketing approval. We will need to commit substantial time and resources in order to conduct further clinical trials before we can submit an NDA with respect to any of these product candidates. We cannot predict with any certainty if or when we might submit an NDA for regulatory approval of any of our product candidates. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement, which could affect allocations of funds and time from other programs. Clinical trials are expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. Further, the medical, regulatory and commercial environment for pharmaceutical products changes quickly and often in ways that we may not be able to accurately predict. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of our product candidates will take several more years to complete. Furthermore, as failure can occur at any stage of the trials, we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including: • changes to applicable regulatory requirements; • unforeseen safety issues; • determination of dosing issues; • lack of effectiveness in the clinical trials; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; • inability to maintain a supply of the investigational drug in sufficient quantities to support the trials; and • suspension or termination of clinical trials for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or changes in the clinical care protocols and standards of care within the institutions in which our trials take place. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend the clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our investigational NDA submissions or the conduct of these trials. A number of companies in the biotechnology and drug development industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials despite promising results in earlier trials. In the end, we may be unable to develop marketable products. The results of the clinical trials are uncertain and may not support our product candidate claims. Even if the clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that the results will support our product candidate claims or that the FDA or government authorities will agree with our conclusions regarding such results. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, the clinical trials will delay the filing of NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. In addition, the clinical trials involve a small patient population. Because of the small sample size, the results of these clinical trials may not be indicative of future results. 28 Table of Contents Delays in patient enrollment for clinical trials could increase costs and delay regulatory approvals. The rate of completion of clinical trials will depend on the rate of patient enrollment. There may be substantial competition to enroll patients in clinical trials for other products in development. This competition has delayed the clinical trials of other biotechnology and drug development companies in the past. In addition, ongoing improvements in drug therapy, particularly for pain management drugs, may make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in our clinical trials as the eligible patient population may choose to enroll in clinical trials sponsored by other companies or choose other recently-approved therapies. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and delays in regulatory approvals. Physicians and patients may not accept and use our drugs, which would cause a change in the business strategy with attendant delays and needs for capital for any new business, and possibly the cessation of business. Even if the FDA and/or applicable foreign regulatory agencies approve our drugs, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of these drugs will depend upon a number of factors including: • perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of these drugs and the use of controlled substances; • potential concerns by clinicians that new formulations of well-known active pharmaceutical ingredients may have lower benefit-to-risk ratios than earlier, widely-used formulations; • cost-effectiveness of these drugs relative to competing products; • availability of reimbursement for our products from government or other healthcare payers; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. Because we expect sales of the current product candidates, if approved, to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. We expect practitioners will have to be particularly convinced as to the benefits of our products in cases where our product represents a new formulation of an existing drug. Our ability to generate product revenues will be diminished if the drugs sell for inadequate prices or patients are unable to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement, thereby reducing future levels of revenues and the ability to achieve profitability. Our ability to commercialize our products, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from: • government and health administration authorities; • private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and • other healthcare payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Healthcare payors, including Medicare, routinely challenge the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other healthcare payors increasingly attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. Even if our product candidates are approved by the FDA, insurance coverage may not be available, and reimbursement levels may be inadequate to cover such drugs. If government and other healthcare payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for any of our products, the post-approval market acceptance of our products could be diminished. The drug-development programs depend in large part upon third-party researchers who are outside our control. We depend upon independent investigators and collaborators, such as universities, medical institutions and clinical research organizations, to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. These collaborators are not our employees and, despite certain contractual obligations, we cannot control the amount or 29 Table of Contents timing of resources that they devote to our programs. These investigators may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to these drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, and our introduction of new drugs, will be delayed. Many of the agreements that we have entered into with these collaborators are terminable at the option of either party upon providing 30 days prior written notice to the other party. If any of these agreements are terminated for any reason, it could delay regulatory approval and commercialization of our products. In addition, these collaborators may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If these collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. We will rely exclusively on third parties to supply and manufacture our product candidates, without any direct control over the quality of our product candidates, or timing for the supply, production and delivery of our product candidates, thereby possibly adversely affecting any future revenues. We have relied exclusively and are dependent on certain third party single source suppliers, including DPT Lakewood, Inc., Precision Pharma Services, Inc. and Baxter Healthcare Corporation, to supply raw materials and finished goods for our product candidates. Many of these agreements are terminable at the option of either party upon providing certain specified periods of prior written notice to the other party. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively and efficiently replace any suppliers that may choose to terminate their relationships with us. The loss of one or more of these suppliers, if not replaced, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The FDA and regulatory agencies in other countries also periodically inspect manufacturing facilities, including third parties who manufacture products or active ingredients for us. The FDA and/or applicable foreign regulatory agencies may not believe that the chosen manufacturers have sufficient experience making the dosage forms that we have contracted with them to produce, and may subject those manufacturers to increased scrutiny. Pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities must comply with applicable good manufacturing practice standards, and manufacturers usually must invest substantial funds, time and effort to ensure full compliance with these standards. We will not have control over our contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in sanctions, fines, delays or suspensions of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, manufacturing interruptions, costly corrective actions, injunctions, adverse publicity against us and our products and possible criminal prosecutions. If we are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials or if there is a significant increase in the price of raw materials, our business would be seriously harmed. If any of our product candidates receives the approval of the FDA and/or applicable foreign regulatory agencies, we expect to rely on one or more third-party contractors to supply our drugs. If any current or future third-party suppliers cease to supply the drugs in the quantity and quality we need to manufacture the drug candidates or if the current or future third-party suppliers are unable to comply with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations, the qualification of additional or replacement suppliers could be a lengthy process, and there may not be adequate alternatives to meet our needs, which would negatively affect our business. We may not be able to obtain the necessary drugs used in our products in the future on a timely basis, if at all. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow the business may be harmed. We must hire and retain skilled employees in a tight labor market and will be subject to high labor costs and related increased employment expenses. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in preclinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing, finance and accounting and sales and marketing. We will compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals, particularly in the Boston metropolitan area, is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. Skilled employees in the industry are in great demand. We are competing for employees against companies located in the Boston metropolitan area that are more established than we are and have the ability to pay more cash compensation than we do. We will require sales and marketing personnel to effectively sell our products. We will 30 Table of Contents also require scientific personnel in many fields, some of which are addressed by relatively few companies. As a result, depending upon the success and the timing of clinical tests, we may experience difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees, particularly scientists. If we are unable to hire and retain skilled personnel, our business, financial condition, operating results and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. We have limited experience in marketing and selling our products, and we will likely need to rely on third party collaborators to do so. We currently have a small designated sales and marketing staff, with limited internal sales or distribution capabilities. In order to commercialize our products following approval, we intend to further develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to target particular markets for our products, as well as make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us with respect to other markets for our products. We may not be able to fully establish these capabilities internally or hire sales personnel with appropriate expertise to market and sell our products, if approved. In addition, even if we are able to identify one or more acceptable collaborators to perform these services for us, we may not be able to enter into any collaborative arrangements on favorable terms, or at all. If we enter into any collaborative arrangements for the marketing or sale of our products, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we marketed and sold our products ourselves. In addition, any revenues we receive would depend upon the efforts of our collaborators, which may not be adequate due to lack of attention or resource commitments, management turnover, change of strategic focus, business combinations or other factors outside of our control. Depending upon the terms of the collaboration, the remedies we may have against an underperforming collaborator may be limited. If we were to terminate the relationship, it may be difficult or impossible to find a replacement collaborator on acceptable terms, if at all. If our products are not accepted by the market, or if we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues, and our business will suffer. The market for our product candidates is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. If our product candidates receive FDA or foreign approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues, and our business will suffer. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have prescription analgesics already approved or in development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs and have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: • developing drugs; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; • formulating and manufacturing drugs; and • launching, marketing and selling drugs. The United States Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to challenge patent validity or create modified, noninfringing versions of a drug in order to facilitate the approval of abbreviated new drug applications for generic substitutes. These same incentives also encourage manufacturers to submit new drug applications, known as 505(b)(2) applications, that rely on literature and clinical data not generated by or for the drug sponsor. In light of these incentives and especially if our products are 31 Table of Contents commercially successful, other manufacturers may submit and gain approval for either an abbreviated NDA or a 505(b)(2) application that will compete directly with our products. Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Companies that currently sell both generic and proprietary opioid formulations include among others Abbott Laboratories, Alza Pharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca, Cephalon, Endo Pharmaceuticals, Elkins-Sinn, Janssen Pharmaceutical, McNeil Consumer Healthcare, Purdue Pharma, Roxane Laboratories and Watson Laboratories. Alternative technologies are being developed to improve or replace the use of opioids for pain management, several of which are in clinical trials or have recently been approved by the FDA. These alternatives include Elan’s Prialt, Pfizer’s Lyrica, and combination products from Endo Pharmaceuticals. In addition, companies pursuing distinct but related fields such as neuromodulation devices represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than us. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel, parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, we may be unable to exploit our intellectual property rights. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to obtain trademarks for our name, logo and products, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We have exclusive licenses to certain patent rights, including rights under U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications as well as rights under equivalent foreign patents and patent applications, and we also own pending U.S. patent applications and foreign equivalents. We anticipate filing additional patent applications both in the U.S. and in other countries, as appropriate. However, we cannot predict: • the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties will find ways to challenge, invalidate or otherwise circumvent our patents; • if and when patents will issue; • whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications; or • whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings which would be costly whether we win or lose. We may not be able to adequately predict the costs associated with any such litigation and, even if resolved in our favor, these costs could be substantial. Such litigation could also divert management’s attention and resources. In addition, if this litigation is resolved against us, we could be held liable for significant damages. If a product covered by our patents or patents exclusively licensed to us is approved, then when those of our patents and exclusively licensed patents covering that product expire, or if they are challenged and held to be invalid or otherwise circumvented before they expire, that product may be subject to generic competition. Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors to enter into agreements which prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of these trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of 32 Table of Contents our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired, and our business and competitive position would suffer. We will market our company and our products using trademarks. In the United States, we have filed “intent-to-use” trademark applications for the names Rylomine and Dyloject that have been allowed. If we do not market products under those trademarks within a specified period of time (initially six months, with extensions of up to three years from the date of allowance), we may not be able to register those trademarks. We have also filed “use-based” U.S. trademark applications for our name, our logo, and our name and logo together. If any of these applications do not result in registration of the applicable trademark, we may not be able to use that trademark in commerce, and we may incur additional, unanticipated costs to identify and register new trademarks in lieu of the trademarks that are included in the pending applications. If we infringe the rights of third parties, we could be prevented from selling our products, forced to pay damages, and incur substantial costs in defending litigations. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs, and we may have to: • obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; • pay damages; or • defend litigation or administrative proceedings which would be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our management resources. We are aware of a third party which could allege that certain uses of our product candidates infringe upon certain of such third party’s proprietary rights. Although we do not intend to market our product candidates for such uses and we are not aware of any such uses currently in practice, we may not be able to avoid claims made by such third party as a result of our product candidates being used by consumers for purposes other than as marketed by us. We may be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that the safety procedures of our manufacturers and distributors for using, storing, handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products may require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may become subject to substantial product liability claims for which we have limited insurance, and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. Although side effects from clinical trials thus far have been generally limited to symptoms known to be associated with these well-established medications, such as dysphoria (a feeling of malaise), and nausea, we may be held liable if any more serious adverse reactions from the use of our product candidates occurs. Our product candidates involve new methods of delivery for potent drugs that require greater precautions to prevent unintended use, especially since they are designed for patients’ easy self-use rather than for administration by medical professionals. For example, the FDA may require us to develop a comprehensive risk management program for our product candidates to reduce the risk of improper patient selection, diversion and abuse. The failure of these measures could result in harmful side effects or death. As a result, consumers, regulatory agencies, pharmaceutical companies or others might make claims against us. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial 33 Table of Contents liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with corporate collaborators. We currently carry clinical trial insurance but do not carry product liability insurance. We, or any corporate collaborators, may not be able to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future corporate collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate if any claim arises. Risks related to management We may not successfully manage our growth, thereby preventing achievement of our business plan. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational, and financial resources. To manage this growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems, and hire and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business would be harmed. We rely on key executive officers and scientific and medical advisors whose knowledge of our business and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. We are highly dependent on Martin J. Driscoll, our Chief Executive Officer, and Daniel B. Carr, M.D., our Chief Medical Officer and Vice Chairman of the Board, as well as other executive officers. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies for any of our officers. We do not have employment agreements with any person other than with Mr. Driscoll, Dr. Carr, Stephen J. Tulipano, our Chief Financial Officer, and David B. Bernstein, our Secretary, General Counsel and Chief Intellectual Property Counsel. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise of any of our key personnel could result in delays in product development and clinical testing, loss of customers and sales, if any, and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect operating results. In addition, we rely on members of our scientific advisory board and consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of the members of our scientific advisory board and our clinical advisors have other jobs and commitments and may be subject to non-disclosure obligations that may limit their availability to work with us. Risks related to our common stock The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may cause certain investors to avoid purchasing our shares. Since July 20, 2006, our common stock has been listed on The American Stock Exchange Inc. (the “ASE”) under the symbol “JAV.” The market price for our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: • announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • results of the testing and regulatory approval of our products; • developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals and concerns; • quarterly variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • developments in our industry; • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our own operating performance; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 34 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key personnel; • trading volume of our common stock; • sales of our common stock by us; and • announcements by us of non-compliance with the ASE director independence requirements. There has been a limited market for our common stock, which may accelerate price swings. Recent history relating to the market prices of public companies indicates that, from time to time, there may be periods of extreme volatility in the market price of our common stock. As our common stock only recently began trading on the ASE, there is no assurance that the trading market will become more active. Prior thereto, our common stock had been traded on the OTC Bulletin Board with an inactive market and the bid and asked prices for our common stock having fluctuated significantly on low trading volumes. Since December 2004 the market price of our common stock has ranged from $1.90 to $7.60 per share. Because of the limited trading volume in our common stock, holders may be unable to sell their shares of our common stock when or at prices they desire. Moreover, the inability to sell shares in a declining market because of such illiquidity or at a price holders desire may substantially increase their risk of loss. The American Stock Exchange imposes listing standards on our common stock that we may not be able to fulfill, thereby leading to a possible delisting of our common stock. As a listed ASE company, we are subject to ASE rules covering among other things, certain major corporate transactions, the composition of our Board of Directors and committees thereof, minimum stockholders equity, and the maintenance of the market price of our common stock. We had not previously been subject to similar regulations. The failure to meet these or other ASE requirements may result in the de-listing of our common stock from the ASE, which could adversely affect the liquidity and market price thereof. We have not previously paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We have not in the past paid any dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future decision to pay a dividend on our common stock and the amount of any dividend paid, if permitted, will be made at the discretion of our board of directors. We may issue shares of preferred stock that have greater rights than our common stock. We are permitted by our certificate of incorporation to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. We can issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series and can set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our common stockholders or other security holders. Any preferred stock that we issue may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividend priority or liquidation rights and may have greater voting rights than our common stock. A significant number of shares of our common stock are subject to options and warrants, and we may issue additional options and warrants in the future. The issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of these options and warrants, as well as issuances under our 2007 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, will dilute the interests of other security holders and may depress the price of our common stock. As of March 1, 2008, there were 49,035,967 shares of common stock outstanding. As of such date, there were vested outstanding options to purchase up to 3,707,733 shares of common stock granted under the Javelin 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”), unvested outstanding options to purchase up to 2,950,896 shares of common stock granted under the Incentive Plan, and outstanding warrants to purchase up to 2,380,649 shares of common stock. There were also outstanding as of March 1, 2008 options to purchase up to 1,106,444 shares of common stock granted outside of the Incentive Plan. In addition, we may issue additional options and warrants from time to time to provide compensation to our employees, officers, directors and 35 Table of Contents consultants under our stock option plans, and to finance our operations. We have also adopted an Employee Stock Purchase Plan pursuant to which our employees may purchase shares of common stock at a discount through payroll deductions, subject to certain eligibility requirements. The issuance, perceived issuance, or exercise of warrants, options or other equity securities will have a dilutive impact on other stockholders and could have a material negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Our principal shareholders own a substantial amount of the shares outstanding and may exert significant influence on our Company. As of March 1, 2008, our officers, directors and 5% holders collectively own, directly or indirectly, approximately 27% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. They will therefore be able to exert substantial influence on the election of directors and on other matters submitted to shareholders, including any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Through their ownership of securities, these stockholders will be able to substantially impact any vote of the stockholders and exert considerable influence over our affairs. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions under Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of our Company. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors is authorized to issue shares of our common or preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders, subject to certain ASE regulations. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for third parties to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors as more shares would have to be acquired to gain control. Additionally, under our bylaws, only our board of directors is authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders. Such provision in our bylaws could make it more difficult for third parties to acquire us or gain control without the approval of our board of directors, who may determine whether or not to call a special meeting of our stockholders. Our bylaws also provide that a vote of at least 80 percent of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company is required to amend certain provisions of our bylaws. This provision may prevent a third party from successfully acquiring control of our Company. Also, Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions may deter hostile takeover attempts that could result in an acquisition of us that could have been financially beneficial to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Currently, we do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff with respect to our prior filings. 