Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information appearing in this document. If any of the following risks actually occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Periods of adverse market volatility could adversely affect our business. During periods of economic decline in the markets in which we operate, which include the residential and commercial real estate markets, as well as the credit markets, we are exposed to basic economic risks including a decrease in the demand for the products and services that we offer and a higher risk of default on our receivables, which may, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Adverse trends in the housing sector and in general economic conditions will directly impact our business. The garage door business is influenced by market conditions for new home construction and renovation of existing homes. For the year ended September 30, 2008, approximately 34% of our total net sales from continuing operations were related to new home construction and renovation of existing homes in our Garage Doors segment. Trends in the housing sector directly affect financial performance. Accordingly, the strength of the U.S. economy, the age of existing home stock, job growth, interest 10 rates, consumer confidence and the availability of consumer credit, as well as demographic factors such as the migration into the United States and migration of the population within the United States have an effect on our business. In that respect, the significant downturn in the housing market has had an adverse effect on the operating results of our Garage Doors segment. We continue to be concerned about trends in market conditions and the outlook for 2009. We operate in highly competitive industries and may be unable to compete effectively. We face intensive competition in each of our markets. We have a number of competitors, some of which are larger and have greater resources. We compete primarily on the basis of competitive prices, technical expertise, product differentiation, and quality of products and services. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we were to lose any of our largest customers, our results of operations could be significantly harmed. A small number of customers has accounted for a substantial portion of historical net sales, and we expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of sales for the foreseeable future. Approximately 21% of our total net sales from continuing operations and 56% of our Specialty Plastic Films sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 were made to Procter & Gamble, which is the largest customer in the Specialty Plastic Films segment. The Home Depot, Inc. and Menards, Inc. are significant customers of the Garage Doors segment and Lockheed Martin Corporation and the Boeing Company are significant customers of the Electronic Information and Communication Systems segment. Future operating results will continue to substantially depend on the success of the largest customers and our relationships with them. Orders from these customers are subject to fluctuation and may be reduced materially. Any reduction or delay in sales of products to one or more of these customers could significantly harm our business. Our operating results will also depend onour ability to successfully develop relationships with additional key customers. We cannot assure you that we will retain our largest customers or that we will be able to recruit additional key customers. Increases in raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We purchase raw materials from various suppliers. While all raw materials are available from numerous sources, commodity raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price. Because raw materials in the aggregate constitute significant components of the cost of goods sold, such fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In recent years, there have been price increases in plastic resins and steel, which are the basic raw materials used in the manufacture of specialty plastic films and garage door products, respectively. Our ability to pass on to customers increases in raw material prices is limited due to customer supply arrangements and competitive pricing pressure, and there is generally a time lag between increased costs and implementation of related price increases. We have not always been able to increase our prices to fully recoup our increased costs. In addition, sharp increases in raw material prices are more difficult to pass through to our customers in a short period of time and may negatively affect our short-term financial performance. Trends in the baby diaper market will directly impact our business. Recent trends have been for baby diaper manufacturers to specify thinner plastic films for use in their products. This trend has generally resulted in Specialty Plastic Films incurring costs to redesign and reengineer its own products to accommodate the specification change. This has had the effect of reducing our revenue due to lower plastic film content in products sold. Such decreases, or our failure to meet changing customer specifications, could result in a decline in our revenues and profits that may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. 11 The Electronic Information and Communication Systems business depends heavily upon government contracts. The Electronic Information and Communication Systems business sells products to the U.S. government primarily as a subcontractor. We are generally a first-tier supplier to prime contractors in the defense industry, such as Boeing, Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, U.S. government contracts and subcontracts accounted for approximately 20% of our total net sales from continuing operations. Contracts involving the U.S. government may include various risks, including: •termination by the government; •reduction or modification in the event of changes in the government's requirements or budgetary constraints; •increased or unexpected costs causing losses or reduced profits under contracts where our prices are fixed, or unallowable costs under contracts where the government reimburses us for costs and pays an additional premium; •the failure or inability of the prime contractor to perform its contract in circumstances where we are a subcontractor; •our failure to observe and comply with government business practice and procurement regulations such that we could be suspended or barred from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts; •the failure of the government to exercise options for additional work provided for in the contracts; and •the government's right, in certain circumstances, to freely use technology developed under these contracts. The programs in which we participate may extend for several years, but are normally funded on an annual basis. The U.S. government may not continue to fund programs to which development projects apply. Even if funding is continued, we may fail to compete successfully to obtain funding pursuant to such programs. We must continually improve existing products, design and sell new products and manage the costs of research and development in order to compete effectively. The markets for Specialty Plastic Films and Electronic Information and Communication Systems businesses are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products. Due to constant changes in these markets, future success depends on our ability to develop new technologies, products, processes and product applications. We develop technologies and products through internally-funded research and development and strategic partnerships with our customers. Because it is generally not possible to predict the amount of time required and the costs involved in achieving certain research and development objectives, actual development costs may exceed budgeted amounts and estimated product development schedules may be extended. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if: •we are unable to improve our existing products on a timely basis; •new products are not introduced on a timely basis or do not achieve sufficient market penetration; •we incur budget overruns or delays in research and development efforts; or •new products experience reliability or quality problems. 12 We may be unable to implement our acquisition growth strategy, and failure to manage our acquisition strategy properly may result in added expenses to our company without a commensurate increase in revenues and divert our management's attention. As part of our plan to grow our business, we anticipate making strategic acquisitions of other companies. Our growth may depend on our ability to identify and acquire, on acceptable terms, companies that complement or enhance our business. After our acquisition of any such companies, we will need to properly integrate them into our company. The competition for acquisition candidates is intense and we expect this competition to increase. We cannot give you any assurance that we will identify and successfully compete for appropriate acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions at reasonable purchase prices, in a timely manner or at all. Further, we may not be able to properly integrate such companies into our company. In implementing our acquisition growth strategy, we may encounter: •costs associated with incomplete or poorly implemented acquisitions; •expenses, delays and difficulties of integrating acquired companies into our existing organization; •dilution of the interest of existing stockholders; and •diversion of management's attention. If we are not successful in implementing our acquisition growth strategy, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. There may be unforeseen expenses in connection with our exit from substantially all operating activities of our Installation Services segment. As a result of the downturn in the residential housing market and the impact on the Installation Services segment, in May 2008, our Board of Directors approved a plan to exit substantially all operating activities of the Installation Services segment in 2008. We are winding down remaining disposal activities in the first half of fiscal 2009 and do not expect to incur significant expenses in the future. Future net cash outflows to satisfy restructuring liabilities that were accrued as of September 30, 2008 are estimated to range between $7 million and $8 million. Substantially all of such liabilities are expected to be paid within the next twelve months. Such estimates may be exceeded by unforeseen events. The loss of certain key officers or employees could adversely affect our business. The success of our business is materially dependent upon the continued services of certain of key officers and employees. The loss of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our businesses are subject to seasonal variations. Historically, our revenues and income are lowest in the second fiscal quarter ending on March 31 and highest in the fourth fiscal quarter ending September 30. The quarterly operating results fluctuation is mainly due to the seasonality in our Garage Doors business. The primary revenues of our Garage Doors business are driven by residential renovation and construction. Cold weather in the winter months usually reduces the level of building and remodeling activity in both the home improvement and new construction markets and, accordingly, has an adverse effect on the demand for Garage Doors products. Seasonal fluctuation in the demand for Garage Doors products could have a material adverse effect on results of our operations. Because a high percentage of manufacturing overhead and operating expenses are relatively fixed throughout the year, our operating margins have historically been lower in quarters with lower sales. As a result, our operating results and our stock price could be volatile, particularly on a quarterly basis. 13 We are exposed to a variety of risks relating to international sales and operations, including foreign economic and political conditions and fluctuations in exchange rates. We own properties and conducts operations in Europe and South America through our foreign subsidiaries. Sales of our products through foreign subsidiaries accounted for approximately 24% of total net sales from continuing operations for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. These foreign sales could be adversely affected by changes in various foreign countries' political and economic conditions, trade protection measures, differing intellectual property rights and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of our products or increase our costs. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in the foreign countries or regions in which we do business may also have an impact on our future operating results. We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Such measures provide only limited protection. We cannot assure that our means of protecting these proprietary rights will be adequate or that competitors will not independently develop similar technologies. We are exposed to product liability claims. We may be the subject of product liability claims in the future relating to the performance of our products or the performance of a product in which any of our products was a component part. There can be no assurance that product liability claims will not be brought against us in the future, either by an injured customer of an end product manufacturer who used one of the products as a component or by a direct purchaser from us. In addition, no assurance can be given that indemnification from customers or coverage under insurance policies will be adequate to cover future product liability claims against us. Moreover, liability insurance is expensive, difficult to maintain and may be unobtainable in the future on acceptable terms. The amount and scope of any insurance coverage may be inadequate if a product liability claim is successfully asserted against us. Furthermore, if any significant claims are made, our business may be adversely affected by any resulting negative publicity. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims and liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Our operations and assets are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of wastes, including solid and hazardous wastes, or otherwise relating to health, safety and protection of the environment. We do not expect to make any expenditures with respect to ongoing compliance with or remediation under these environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. However, the applicable requirements under the law may change at any time. We can also incur environmental liabilities in respect of sites that we no longer own or operate, as well as third-party sites to which we send hazardous materials. We cannot assure you that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with such claims. A site in Peekskill in the town of Cortlandt, New York was previously owned and used by two of our subsidiaries. The Peekskill site was sold in December 1982. In 1984, we were advised by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation ("DEC") that random sampling of the Peekskill site indicated concentrations of solvents and other chemicals common to the operations of our subsidiary that used the site. In May 1996, our subsidiary that formerly owned the site entered into a consent order with the DEC to investigate and remediate environmental conditions at this site, including the performance of a remedial investigation and feasibility study. After completing the initial remedial investigation, the subsidiary has now performed a supplemental remedial investigation under the consent order. Subsequently, an addendum 14 to the supplemental remediation investigation was negotiated and conducted and a further report submitted to the DEC. We believe, based on facts presently known, that the outcome of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you, however, that the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, changes in environmental laws and regulations or other unanticipated events will not give rise to claims that may involve material expenditures or liabilities. Changes in income tax laws and regulations or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could adversely affect profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in any valuation allowance for deferred tax assets or the amendment or enactment of tax laws. The amount of income taxes paid is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. Federal, state and local tax authorities and also by foreign authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from recorded income tax liabilities, our future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to income tax expense. Our compliance with restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements may limit our ability to take corporate actions and harm our business. The debt agreements entered into by certain of our subsidiaries contain a number of covenants that restrict their ability to incur additional debt and to pay dividends to us. Under the respective revolving credit agreements, these subsidiaries are also required to comply with specific financial ratios and tests. These subsidiaries may not be able to comply in the future with these covenants or restrictions as a result of events beyond their control, such as prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions or a change in control of our company. If our subsidiary defaults in maintaining compliance with the covenants and restrictions in its debt agreement, its lenders could declare all of the principal and interest amounts outstanding due and payable and terminate their commitments to extend credit to the subsidiary in the future. If the subsidiairy or we are unable to secure credit in the future, our business could be harmed. Our inability to repurchase outstanding convertible notes as required under the indenture may cause an event of default under other agreements. On July 18, 2010, 2013, 2018, as well as upon a change in control, as defined in the indenture, noteholders will have the right to require repurchase of their notes. If our common stock price is below the conversion price of the debenture on the earliest of these dates, we anticipate that noteholders will require us to repurchase their outstanding notes. If we do not have sufficient funds to pay the repurchase price for all of the notes tendered, an event of default under the indenture governing the notes would occur as a result of such failure, which could have a material adverse effect on our company. At September 30, 2008, we had $130 million outstanding of convertible notes. In October 2008, we purchased $35.5 million face value of the notes from certain note holders for $28.4 million. Our reported earnings per share may be more volatile because of the conversion contingency provision of the notes. The outstanding convertible notes are convertible when a "market price" condition is satisfied and also upon the occurrence of other circumstances as more fully described in Note 3 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Upon conversion, noteholders will receive at least $1,000 in cash for each $1,000 principal amount of notes presented for conversion. The excess of the value of our common stock that would have been issuable upon conversion over the cash delivered will be paid to noteholders in shares of our common stock. These shares are considered in the calculation of diluted 15 earnings per share and volatility in our stock price could cause these notes to be dilutive in one quarter and not in a subsequent quarter, increasing the volatility of fully diluted earnings per share. We may be unable to raise additional financing if needed. We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to implement our business plan, to refinance our debt or to acquire businesses or products. Any required additional financing may be unavailable on terms favorable to us, or at all, due to the uncertainties in the current credit market. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, holders of our common stock may experience significant dilution of their ownership interest and these securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. Our indebtedness and interest expense could limit our cash flow and adversely affect our operations and our ability to make full payment on our outstanding notes. Our indebtedness poses risks to our business, including the risks that: •we could use a substantial portion of its consolidated cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on its debt, thereby reducing the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, product development and other general corporate purposes; •insufficient cash flow from operations may force us to sell assets, or seek additional capital, which we may be unable to do at all or on terms favorable to us; and •our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns. We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution of our existing stockholders' equity interests. We are authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, which may give other stockholders dividend, conversion, voting, and liquidation rights, among other rights, which may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of issuing any such preferred stock, but reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition, we are authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 85,000,000 shares of common stock, of which approximately 58,655,000 shares were outstanding as of September 30, 2008. We are also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, securities convertible into either shares of common stock or preferred stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 