Item 1A. Risk Factors Griffon's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors which could cause the Company's actual results to vary materially from recent or anticipated future results. The risk factors discussed in this section should be carefully considered with all of the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors should not be considered the only risk factors facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also materially impact Griffon's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In general, Griffon is subject to the same general risks and uncertainties that impact other diverse manufacturing companies including, but not limited to, general economic, industry and/or market conditions and growth rates; impact of natural disasters and their effect on global markets; continued events in the Middle East and possible future terrorist threats and their effect on the worldwide economy; and changes in laws or accounting rules. The Company has identified the following specific risks and uncertainties that it considers to have the potential to materially effect its business and financial condition. 10 Current worldwide economic uncertainty and market volatility could adversely affect Griffon's businesses. The current worldwide economic uncertainty, market volatility and credit crisis will continue to have an adverse effect on Griffon during 2010, particularly in Building Products, which is substantially linked to the U.S. housing market. Additionally, the current condition of the credit markets could impact the Company's ability to refinance expiring debt, obtain additional credit for investments in current businesses or for acquisitions, with favorable terms, or there may be no financing available. The Company is also exposed to basic economic risks including a decrease in the demand for the products and services offered or a higher risk of default on its receivables. Adverse trends in the housing sector and in general economic conditions will directly impact Griffon's business. Building Products' business is influenced by market conditions for new home construction and renovation of existing homes. For the year ended September 30, 2009, approximately 33% of Griffon's consolidated revenue was derived from the Building Products segment which is heavily dependent on new home construction and renovation of existing homes. The strength of the U.S. economy, the age of existing home stock, job growth, interest rates, consumer confidence and the availability of consumer credit, as well as demographic factors such as the migration into the United States and migration of the population within the United States also have an effect on Building Products. In that respect, the significant downturn in the housing market has had an adverse effect on the operating results of Building Products and this effect is likely to continue in 2010. Griffon operates in highly competitive industries and may be unable to compete effectively. Griffon's operating companies face intense competition in each of the markets served. There are a number of competitors, some of which are larger and have greater resources than Griffon's operating companies. Griffon competes primarily on the basis of competitive prices, technical expertise, product differentiation, and quality of products and services. There can be no assurance that Griffon will not encounter increased competition in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial results. The loss of large customers can harm financial results. A small number of customers account for, and are expected to continue to account for, a substantial portion of consolidated revenue. Approximately 19% of consolidated revenue and 54% of the Plastics segment revenue for the year ended September 30, 2009 was generated from P&G, the largest customer in the Plastics segment. Home Depot and Menards are significant customers of Building Products, and the U.S. Government and its agencies, Lockheed Martin Corporation and the Boeing Company are significant customers of Telephonics. Future operating results will continue to substantially depend on the success of Griffon's largest customers, as well as Griffon's relationship with them. Orders from these customers are subject to fluctuation and may be reduced materially due to changes in these customers' needs. Any reduction or delay in sales of products to one or more of these customers could significantly reduce Griffon's revenue. The Company's operating results will also depend on successfully developing relationships with additional key customers. Griffon cannot assure that the Company's largest customers will be retained or that additional key customers will be recruited. Increases in raw material costs could adversely impact Griffon's financial condition and operating results. The Company purchases raw materials from various suppliers. While most key raw materials are generally available from numerous sources, raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price. Because raw materials in the aggregate constitute a significant component of the cost of goods sold, price fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on Griffon's results of operations. In recent years, there have been price increases in steel and plastic resins, which are the basic raw materials used in the 11 manufacture of Building Products and Plastics' products, respectively. The Company's ability to pass raw material price increases to customers is limited due to supply arrangements and competitive pricing pressure, and there is generally a time lag between increased costs and implementation of related price increases. In particular, sharp increases in raw material prices are more difficult to pass through to customers and may negatively affect short-term financial performance. Trends in the baby diaper market will directly impact Griffon's business. Recent trends have been for baby diaper manufacturers to specify thinner plastic films for use in their products which reduces the amount of product sold and Plastics' revenue; this trend has generally resulted in Plastics incurring costs to redesign and reengineer products to accommodate the specification change. Such decreases, or the inability to meet changing customer specifications, could result in a decline in revenue and profit. Telephonics' business depends heavily upon government contracts. Telephonics sells products to the U.S. government and its agencies both directly, and indirectly, as a first-tier supplier to prime contractors in the defense industry, such as Boeing, Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman. In the year ended September 30, 2009, U.S. government contracts and subcontracts accounted for approximately 23% of Griffon's consolidated revenue. Contracts involving the U.S. government may include various risks, including: •termination by the government; •reduction or modification in the event of changes in the government's requirements or budgetary constraints; •increased, or unexpected costs, causing losses or reduced profits under contracts where Telephonics' prices are fixed, or costs are not allowable under the government contract; •the failure or inability of the prime contractor to perform its contract in circumstances where Telephonics is a subcontractor; •failure to observe and comply with government business practice and procurement regulations such that Telephonics could be suspended or barred from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts; •the failure of the government to exercise options for additional work provided for in contracts; and •the government's right, in certain circumstances, to freely use technology developed under these contracts. The programs in which Telephonics participates may extend for several years, but are normally funded on an incremental basis. The U.S. government may not continue to fund programs to which development projects apply. Even if funding is continued, Telephonics may fail to compete successfully to obtain funding pursuant to such programs. Telephonics' business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government As a government contractor, and a subcontractor to government contractors, Telephonics is subject to audits and investigations by U.S. Government Agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency, other Inspectors General and the Department of Justice. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. These agencies also review the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's management, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, and accounting and information systems. Any costs found to be misclassified or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already billed 12 and collected. The Company could incur significant expenses in complying with audits and subpoenas issued by the government in aid of inquiries and investigations. If an audit or an investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, Telephonics may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and/or administrative sanctions, which could include contract termination, forfeiture of profit, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, if allegations of impropriety are made, Telephonics and Griffon could suffer serious reputational harm. Griffon's companies must continually improve existing products, design and sell new products and invest in research and development in order to compete effectively. The markets for Plastics and Telephonics are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products. Due to constant changes in these markets, future success depends on their ability to develop new technologies, products, processes and product applications. Product and technological developments are accomplished both through internally-funded research and development projects, as well as through strategic partnerships with customers. Because it is not generally possible to predict the amount of time required and costs involved in achieving certain research and development objectives, actual development costs may exceed budgeted amounts and estimated product development schedules may be extended. Griffon's financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if: •product improvements are not completed on a timely basis; •new products are not introduced on a timely basis or do not achieve sufficient market penetration; •there are budget overruns or delays in research and development efforts; or •new products experience reliability or quality problems. Griffon may be unable to implement its acquisition growth strategy, which may result in added expenses without a commensurate increase in revenue and income and divert management's attention. Making strategic acquisitions is a significant part of Griffon's growth plans; such growth will depend on identifying and acquiring, on acceptable terms, companies that either complement or enhance currently held businesses or expand Griffon into new profitable businesses. Additionally, Griffon must properly integrate acquired businesses in order to maximize profitability. The competition for acquisition candidates is intense and Griffon cannot assure that it will successfully identify acquisition candidates and complete acquisitions at reasonable purchase prices, in a timely manner or at all. Further, there is a risk that acquisitions will not be properly integrated into Griffon's existing structure. In implementing an acquisition growth strategy, the following may be encountered: •costs associated with incomplete or poorly implemented acquisitions; •expenses, delays and difficulties of integrating acquired companies into Griffon's existing organization; •dilution of the interest of existing stockholders; or •diversion of management's attention. An unsuccessful implementation of Griffon's acquisition growth strategy could have an adverse impact on the results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 13 There may be unforeseen expenses in connection with the exit from substantially all operating activities of the Installation Services segment. As a result of the downturn in the residential housing market and the impact on the Installation Services segment, the Board of Directors of Griffon approved a plan to exit substantially all operating activities of the Installation Services segment in May 2008. The Company has substantially completed its disposal activities in the first half of 2009 and does not expect to incur significant expenses in the future. However, there are remaining obligations, primarily related to the guarantee of assigned leases that could affect future results of operations and net cash outflows. The loss of certain key officers or employees could adversely affect Griffon's business. The success of Griffon is materially dependent upon the continued services of certain key officers and employees. The loss of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on Griffon's operating results or financial condition. Griffon's businesses are subject to seasonal variations. Griffon's revenue and income are typically lowest in the second quarter ending March 31 and highest in the fourth quarter ending September 30 primarily due to the seasonality of Building Products' business. Building Products' revenue is driven by residential renovation and construction which is generally at reduced levels during the winter months. Because a high percentage of manufacturing overhead and operating expenses are relatively fixed throughout the year, operating margins have historically been lower in quarters with lower revenue. The Company is exposed to a variety of risks relating to non-U.S. sales and operations, including non-U.S. economic and political conditions and fluctuations in exchange rates. Griffon and its companies own properties and conduct operations in Europe, Canada and South America. Sales of products through non-U.S. subsidiaries accounted for approximately 31% of consolidated revenue for the year ended September 30, 2009. These sales could be adversely affected by changes in political and economic conditions, trade protection measures, differing intellectual property rights laws and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of products or increase costs. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in the non-U.S. regions in which the Company does business may also have an impact on future reported financial results. The Company may not be able to protect its proprietary rights. The Company relies on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to protect proprietary rights. Such measures do not provide absolute protection and Griffon cannot give assurance that measures for protecting these proprietary rights are and will be adequate, or that competitors will not independently develop similar technologies. The Company may inadvertently infringe on, or may be accused of infringing on, proprietary rights held by another party. The Company is regularly improving its technology and employing existing technologies in new ways. Though the Company takes reasonable precautions to ensure it does not infringe on the rights of others, it is possible that the Company may inadvertently infringe on, or may be accused of infringing on, proprietary rights held by others. If the Company is found to have infringed on the propriety rights held by others, any related settlement for such infringement may have a material effect on the Company's financial statements and financial condition. 14 The Company is exposed to product liability claims. The Company may be the subject of product liability claims relating to the performance of its products or the performance of a product in which its products were a component part. There can be no assurance that future product liability claims will not be brought against the Company, either by an injured customer of an end product manufacturer who used one of the products as a component or by a direct purchaser. Moreover, no assurance can be given that indemnification from customers or coverage under insurance policies will be adequate to cover future product liability claims against the Company. In addition, product liability insurance can be expensive, difficult to maintain and may be unobtainable in the future on acceptable terms. The amount and scope of any insurance coverage may be inadequate if a product liability claim is successfully asserted. Furthermore, if any significant claims are made, the business and the related financial condition of the Company may be adversely affected by negative publicity. The Company has been, and may in the future be, subject to claims and liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. The Company's operations and assets are subject to environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of wastes, including solid and hazardous wastes, or otherwise relating to health, safety and protection of the environment in various jurisdictions in which it operates. The Company does not expect to make any expenditure with respect to ongoing compliance with or remediation under these environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results or financial condition. However, the applicable requirements under the law may change at any time. The Company can incur environmental costs related to sites that are no longer owned or operated, as well as third-party sites to which hazardous materials are sent. It cannot be assured that material expenditures or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with such claims. See the Commitment and Contingencies footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on environmental contingencies. Based on facts presently known, the outcome of current environmental matters are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. However, presently unknown environmental conditions, changes in environmental laws and regulations or other unanticipated events may give rise to claims that may involve material expenditures or liabilities. Changes in income tax laws and regulations or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could adversely affect profitability. The Company is subject to federal, state and local income taxes in the United States and in various taxing jurisdictions outside the United States. Tax provisions and liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various U.S. and international tax jurisdictions. The Company's effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in any valuation allowance for deferred tax assets or the amendment or enactment of tax laws. The amount of income taxes paid is subject to audits by U.S. Federal, state and local tax authorities, as well as tax authorities in the taxing jurisdictions outside the United States. If such audits result in assessments different from recorded income tax liabilities, the Company's future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to its income tax provision. Compliance with restrictions and covenants in the Company's debt agreements may limit its ability to take corporate actions and harm its business. The credit agreements entered into by certain of Griffon's subsidiaries contain covenants that restrict their ability to incur additional debt and to pay dividends. Under the respective credit agreements, these subsidiaries are also required to comply with specific financial ratios and tests. These subsidiaries may not be able to comply in the future with these covenants or restrictions as a result of 15 events beyond their control, such as prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions or a change in control of the Company. If a subsidiary defaults in maintaining compliance with the covenants and restrictions in its credit agreement, its lenders could declare all of the principal and interest amounts outstanding due and payable and terminate their commitments to extend credit to the subsidiary in the future. If the subsidiary or the Company is unable to secure credit in the future, business could be harmed. The Company's inability to repurchase outstanding convertible notes as required under the indenture may cause an event of default under other agreements. On July 18, 2010, 2013, 2018, as well as upon a change in control, as defined in the indenture, noteholders will have the right to require repurchase of their notes. If the Company's common stock price is below the debenture's conversion price ($22.41 per share) on the earliest of these dates, it is anticipated that noteholders will require the repurchase of their notes. If sufficient funds are not available to pay the repurchase price for all of the notes tendered, an event of default under the indenture governing the notes would occur as a result of such failure, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. At September 30, 2009, $79.4 million of convertible notes were outstanding. Reported earnings per share may be more volatile because of the conversion contingency provision of the notes. The outstanding convertible notes are convertible when a "market price" condition is satisfied and also upon the occurrence of other circumstances as more fully described in the Notes Payable, Capitalized Leases and Long-Term Debt footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Upon conversion, noteholders will receive $1,000 in cash for each $1,000 principal amount of notes presented for conversion. The excess of the value of Griffon's common stock that would have been issuable upon conversion over the cash delivered will be settled in shares of common stock. These shares are considered in the calculation of diluted earnings per share and volatility in Griffon's stock price could cause these notes to be dilutive in one quarter and not in a subsequent quarter, increasing the volatility of fully diluted earnings per share. Griffon may be unable to raise additional financing if needed Griffon may need to raise additional financing in the future in order to implement its business plan, refinance debt, or to acquire new businesses or products. Any required additional financing may be unavailable at favorable terms, or at all, due to uncertainties in the credit market. If Griffon raises additional funds by issuing equity securities, current holders of its common stock may experience significant ownership interest dilution and these securities may have rights senior to the rights associated with current outstanding common stock. The Company's indebtedness and interest expense could limit cash flow and adversely affect operations and the Company's ability to make full payment on outstanding debt. The Company's indebtedness poses potential risks such as: •a substantial portion of cash flows from operations could be used to pay principal and interest on debt, thereby reducing the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, product development and other general corporate purposes; •insufficient cash flows from operations may force the Company to sell assets, or seek additional capital, which the Company may not be able to accomplish on favorable terms, if at all; and •the level of indebtedness may make the Company more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns. 16 The Company has the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution to existing stockholders' equity interests. The Company is authorized to issue, without stockholder vote or approval, 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of Griffon's common stock. There is no present intention of issuing any such preferred stock, but the Company reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition, the Company is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 85,000,000 shares of common stock, of which approximately 59,573,983 shares, net of treasury shares, were outstanding as of September 30, 2009. Additionally, the Company is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, securities convertible into either shares of common stock or preferred stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 