Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect our company. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to all other information provided to you in this document and our subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The current economic downturn could continue to result in a decrease in our future sales, earnings, and liquidity. Economic conditions have recently deteriorated significantly in the United States, and worldwide, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. These conditions have resulted in a decline in our sales and earnings and could continue to impact our sales and earnings in the future. Sales of residential furniture are impacted by downturns in the general economy primarily due to decreased discretionary spending by consumers. The general level of consumer spending is affected by a number of factors, including, among others, general economic conditions, inflation, and consumer confidence, all of which are generally beyond our control. Consumer purchases of residential furniture decline during periods of economic downturn, when disposable income is lower. The economic downturn also impacts retailers, our primary customers, resulting in the inability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us. In addition, if our retail customers are unable to sell our product or are unable to access credit, they may experience financial difficulties leading to bankruptcies, liquidations, and other unfavorable events. If any of these events occur, or if unfavorable economic conditions continue to challenge the consumer environment, our future sales, earnings, and liquidity would likely be adversely impacted. Current market returns have had a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension plans, which may require significant funding. As widely reported, financial markets have experienced extreme disruption in recent months. As a result of this disruption in the domestic and international equity and bond markets, the asset values of our pension plans have decreased approximately 20% during 2008. We are unable to predict the severity or the duration of the current disruptions in the financial markets and the adverse economic conditions. Due to the widespread nature of the market disruption, in December 2008, the federal government passed legislation that provides for temporary relief from the funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006. Due to this legislation, our funding requirements for 2009 are not significant. Nevertheless, the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. In addition, if the relief provided by the federal government is no longer applicable to our pension plans, this loss of asset value may necessitate significantly increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. Any continued downward pressure on the asset values of these plans, or the failure of these assets to recover in value, may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. Loss of market share and other financial or operational difficulties due to competition would likely result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. The residential furniture industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with many other manufacturers and retailers, some of which offer widely advertised, well-known, branded products, and large retail furniture dealers who offer their own store-branded products. Competition in the residential furniture industry is based on pricing of products, the quality of products, the style of products, perceived value, service to the customer, promotional activities, and advertising. It is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our competitors’ actions in these areas. The highly competitive nature of the industry means we are constantly subject to the risk of losing market share, which would likely decrease our future sales and earnings. In addition, due to competition, we may not be able to maintain or to raise the prices of our products in response to inflationary pressures such as increasing costs. Also, due to the large number of competitors and their wide range of product offerings, we may not be able to differentiate our products (through styling, finish, and other construction techniques) from those of our competitors. These and other competitive pressures would likely result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. 10 Table of Contents An inability to forecast demand or respond to changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends in a timely manner could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. Residential furniture is a highly styled product subject to fashion trends and geographic consumer tastes that can change rapidly. If we are unable to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends in a timely manner or to otherwise forecast demand accurately, we may lose sales and have excess inventory (both raw materials and finished goods), both of which could result in a decrease in our earnings. A failure to achieve our projected mix of product sales could result in a decrease in our future earnings. Our products are sold at varying price points and levels of profit. An increase in the sales of our lower profit products at the expense of the sales of our higher profit products could result in a decrease in our earnings. Business failures of large dealers, a group of customers or our own retail stores could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. Our business practice has been to extend payment terms to our customers when selling furniture. As a result, we have a substantial amount of receivables we manage daily. At December 31, 2008, we had a receivable balance of $178.6 million. Although we have no customers who individually represent 10% or more of our total annual sales, the business failures of a large customer or a group of customers could require us to record receivable reserves, which would decrease earnings. For example, in 2008, we increased our receivable reserves by $35.2 million after evaluating the collectability of our receivables, which lowered our 2008 earnings by this same amount. Receivables collection can be significantly impacted by economic conditions. Therefore, continued deterioration in the economy could cause further business failures of our customers, which could in turn require additional receivable reserves thereby lowering earnings. More broadly, these business failures can cause loss of future sales as well. In addition, we are either prime tenant on or guarantor of many leases of company-brand stores operated by independent furniture dealers. The viability of these dealer stores are also highly influenced by economic conditions. Defaults by any of these dealers would result in our becoming responsible for payments under these leases. If we do not operate these stores, we are still required to pay store occupancy costs, which results in a reduction in our future sales and earnings. For example, in 2008, we recorded charges of $39.9 million related to dealer stores which we acquired and closed, but are still required to pay store occupancy costs. Inventory write-downs or write-offs could result in a decrease in our earnings. We have a substantial amount of inventory at December 31, 2008. This inventory is properly valued at the lower of cost or market. However, future sales of inventory are dependent on economic conditions, among other things. Weak economic and retail conditions could cause a lowering of inventory values in order to sell our product. For example, in 2008, we incurred charges of $39.8 million related to product write-downs to actual or anticipated sales values in this difficult retail environment. Further deterioration in the economy could require us to lower inventory values further, which would lower our earnings. Sales distribution realignments can result in a decrease in our near-term sales and earnings. We continually review relationships with our customers to ensure each meets our standards. These standards cover, among others, profitability, market penetration, sales growth, competitive improvements, and sound business practices. If customers do not meet our standards, we will consider discontinuing these business relationships. If we discontinue a relationship, there would likely be a decrease in near-term sales and earnings. 11 Table of Contents Manufacturing realignments and cost savings programs could result in a decrease in our near-term earnings and liquidity. We continually review our domestic manufacturing operations and offshore sourcing capabilities. Effects of periodic manufacturing realignments and cost savings programs would likely result in a decrease in our near-term earnings and liquidity until the expected cost reductions are achieved. Such programs can include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems, and procedures. Certain products may also be shifted from domestic manufacturing to offshore sourcing. These realignments have and would likely in the future result in substantial costs including, among others, severance, impairment, exit, and disposal costs. Such actions may not be accomplished as quickly as anticipated and the expected cost reductions may not be achieved in full, both of which have, and could in the future, result in a decrease in our near-term earnings and liquidity. Reliance on offshore sourcing of our products subject us to changes in local government regulations and currency fluctuations which could result in a decrease in our earnings. We have offshore capabilities that provide flexibility in product programs and pricing to meet competitive pressures. Risks inherent in conducting business internationally include, among others, fluctuations in foreign-currency exchange rates, changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, repatriation of earnings, and changes in local political or economic conditions, all of which could increase our costs and decrease our earnings. Our operations depend on production facilities located outside the United States which are subject to increased risks of disrupted production which could cause delays in shipments, loss of customers, and decreases in sales and earnings. We have placed production in emerging markets to capitalize on market opportunities and to minimize our costs. Our international production operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity, or public health concerns, particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences. Our production abroad may also be more susceptible to changes in laws and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval than our domestic production. Any such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products, loss of customers, and decreases in sales and earnings. Fluctuations in the price, availability, and quality of raw materials could cause delays in production and could increase the costs of materials which could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. We use various types of wood, fabrics, leathers, glass, upholstered filling material, steel, and other raw materials in manufacturing furniture. Fluctuations in the price, availability, and quality of the raw materials we use in manufacturing residential furniture could have a negative effect on our cost of sales and our ability to meet the demands of our customers. Inability to meet the demands of our customers could result in the loss of future sales. In addition, the costs to manufacture furniture depend in part on the market prices of the raw materials used to produce the furniture. We may not be able to pass along to our customers all or a portion of our higher costs of raw materials due to competitive and marketing pressures, which could decrease our earnings. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to litigation, environmental regulations, and governmental matters that could adversely impact our sales, earnings, and liquidity. We are, and may in the future be, a party to legal proceedings and claims, including, but not limited to, those involving product liability, business matters, and environmental matters, some of which claim significant damages. We face the business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but there can be no assurance such coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. We also are, and may in the future be, a party to legal proceedings and claims arising out of certain customer or dealer terminations as we continue to re-examine and realign our retail distribution strategy. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, these matters could have a material adverse impact on our sales, earnings, and liquidity. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. In addition, our defined benefit plans are subject to certain pension obligations, regulations, and funding requirements, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and require substantial funding. All of these matters could cause a decrease in our sales, earnings, and liquidity. Future acquisitions and investments could result in dilution to our earnings per share and a decrease in the valuation of our common stock. As part of our business strategy, we may make acquisitions and investments in businesses that offer complementary products. Risks commonly encountered in acquisitions include the possibility that we pay more than the acquired company or assets are worth, the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, and the distraction of our management from ongoing business. Consideration paid for future acquisitions could be in the form of cash or stock or a combination thereof. Dilution to existing stockholders and to earnings per share may result in connection with any such future acquisition. Loss of key personnel or the inability to hire qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain our key personnel, including our executive officers and senior management team. The unexpected loss of one or more of our key employees could adversely affect our business. Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train, and retain other highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business. Impairment of our trade name intangible assets would result in a decrease in our earnings and net worth. Our trade names are no longer being amortized, but rather tested for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Our impairment testing compares the fair value of the trade names with their carrying value. The fair value of our trade names is estimated using a “relief from royalty payments” methodology, which is highly contingent upon sales trends and projections. Lower sales trends and projections could cause impairment charges and a corresponding reduction in our earnings and net worth. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we tested our trade names for impairment under this methodology and recorded an impairment charge of $35.3 million, resulting in a remaining trade name balance of $127.3 million at December 31, 2008. This charge was driven primarily by weak consumer confidence, the recessionary environment for the home furnishings industry, and adverse equity market conditions. Similar or worse conditions in the future could further decrease sales trends and projections which could lead to additional impairment charges and resulting reductions in earnings and net worth. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our shareholders’ rights plan could discourage a takeover and could result in a decrease in a potential acquirer’s valuation of our common stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and shareholders’ rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation allows us to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Such issuances could also make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, we have a shareholders’ rights plan which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. 13 Table of Contents Our growth strategy includes, in part, the development of new stores each year. If we and our dealers are not able to open new stores or effectively manage the growth of these stores, our ability to grow and our profitability could be adversely affected. Our ability and the ability of our dealers to identify and open new stores in desirable locations and operate such stores profitably is a factor in our ability to grow successfully. We have in the past and will likely continue to purchase or otherwise assume operation of company-brand stores from independent dealers. Increased demands on our operational, managerial, and administrative resources could cause us to operate our business, including our existing and new stores, less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in our profitability. We may not be able to comply with our debt agreement or secure additional financing on favorable terms to meet our future capital needs, which could significantly adversely impact our liquidity and our business. We have $190 million of debt outstanding under our asset-based loan (“ABL”) at December 31, 2008, $30 million of which is classified as current. Availability to borrow under our ABL fluctuates based upon a borrowing base calculation consisting of our eligible accounts receivable and inventory. Based upon our borrowing base effective as of December 31, 2008, we could have borrowed an additional $11.9 million. Due to decreases in receivables and inventory, we repaid $30 million of debt on January 26, 2009, resulting in availability under the ABL of $8.1 million. Our borrowing base calculations are subject to periodic examinations by the financial institutions which can result in adjustments to the borrowing base and our availability under the ABL. These examinations could result in adjustments to our borrowing base and availability in the future. In addition, in order to maintain these borrowings, we have to comply with various provisions of our ABL agreement which are described in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis section of this Form 10-K. Should we not comply with any of the provisions of our ABL agreement, the lenders can call the debt, which could significantly adversely impact our liquidity and our business. While we expect to comply with all of the provisions of the ABL agreement throughout 2009, further deterioration in the economy and our results could cause us to not be in compliance with our ABL agreement. While we would attempt to obtain waivers for noncompliance, we may not be able to obtain waivers, which could significantly adversely impact our liquidity and our business. In addition, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $106.6 million at December 31, 2008. In light of the recent deterioration of the global economy and uncertainty about these conditions in the foreseeable future, we are focused on effective cash management, controlling costs, and preserving cash related to, capital expenditures and acquisition of stores. For example, we reviewed all capital projects for 2009 and are committed to execute only on those projects that are either necessary for business operations or have a high rate of return. Also, we will acquire stores only if we are required as the prime tenant on the lease or if we expect an adequate return on our investment. However, if we do not have sufficient cash flow from our operations or our borrowing capacity under our ABL is insufficient, we may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in the future in order to meet our operating and capital needs. Nevertheless, we may not be able to secure adequate debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. In the event that we are unable to raise additional funds, our liquidity will be adversely impacted and our business could suffer. If we are able to secure additional financing, these funds could be costly to secure and maintain, which could significantly impact our earnings and our liquidity. Also, if we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, any debt financing that we may secure in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Furthermore, part of our short-term funding is from vendors who offer payment terms. If industry fundamentals or practices cause a shortening or elimination of these terms, the upfront need for cash would reduce our current cash position. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 