Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect our company. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to all other information provided to you in this document and in our subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Unfavorable economic conditions could result in a decrease in our future sales, earnings, and liquidity.Our operations and performance depend significantly on economic conditions, particularly in the United States, and their impact on levels of existing home sales, new home construction, consumer confidence, and consumer discretionary spending. Economic 6Table of Contentsconditions deteriorated significantly in the United States and worldwide in recent years. Although the general economy has begun to recover, sales of residential furniture remain depressed due to wavering consumer confidence and a number of ongoing factors in the global economy that have negatively impacted consumers’ discretionary spending. These ongoing factors include lower home values, prolonged foreclosure activity throughout the country, a weak market for home sales, continued high levels of unemployment, and reduced access to consumer credit. These factors are outside of our control, but have a direct impact on our sales. These conditions have resulted in a decline in our sales, earnings and liquidity and could continue to impact our sales, earnings and liquidity in the future. The general level of consumer spending is also affected by a number of factors, including, among others, general economic conditions and inflation, which are generally beyond our control. Unfavorable economic conditions impact retailers, our primary customers, potentially resulting in the inability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us. In addition, if our customers are unable to sell our products or are unable to access credit, they may experience financial difficulties leading to bankruptcies, liquidations, and other unfavorable events. If any of these events occur, or if unfavorable economic conditions continue to challenge the consumer environment, our future sales, earnings, and liquidity would likely be adversely impacted.A variety of factors including market returns and lower interest rates could significantly increase our funding obligations for our qualified pension plan, which would negatively impact our liquidity.Our funding obligations for our qualified pension plan depend on the performance of assets held in the pension plan, changes in the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation, and changes in government regulations applicable to our pension plan. The projected benefit obligation of our qualified defined benefit plan exceeded the fair value of plan assets by $191.8 million at December 29, 2012. A decrease in the fair value of plan assets, or a decrease in interest rates with a corresponding decrease in the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation could significantly increase our funding obligation. Financial markets have experienced extreme volatility in recent years. As a result of this volatility in the domestic and international equity and bond markets, the asset values of our pension plans and the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation have fluctuated significantly. Further disruptions in the financial markets could adversely impact our funding obligations in the future. In addition, the federal government has passed pension funding relief legislation which extended the time over which plan deficits may be funded and changed the method for calculating the discount rate. If the relief provided by the federal government expires or is no longer applicable to our qualified pension plan, if there is downward pressure on the asset value of the plan, or if the present value of the benefit obligation of the plan increases, as would occur in the event of a decrease in the discount rate used to measure the obligation, significantly increased funding of the plan in the future could be required, which would negatively impact our liquidity.Loss of market share and other financial or operational difficulties due to competition would likely result in a decrease in our sales, earnings, and liquidity.The residential furniture industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with many other manufacturers and retailers, some of which offer widely advertised, well-known, branded products, and others are large retail furniture dealers who offer their own store-branded products. Competition in the residential furniture industry is based on the pricing of products, quality of products, style of products, perceived value, service to the customer, promotional activities, and advertising. It is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our competitors’ actions in these areas. The highly competitive nature of the industry means we are constantly subject to the risk of losing market share, which would likely decrease our future sales, earnings and liquidity. In addition, due to competition, we may not be able to maintain or raise the prices of our products in response to inflationary pressures such as increasing costs. Also, due to the large number of competitors and their wide range of product offerings, we may not be able to differentiate our products (through styling, finish, and other construction techniques) from those of our competitors. These and other competitive pressures would likely result in a decrease in our sales, earnings, and liquidity.Our failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results.We may not correctly estimate demand for our products. Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly for new products. If we materially underestimate demand for our products, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. If we materially overestimate demand for our products, our inventory levels will be higher than necessary and we may need to discount our products to sell off the excess inventory. Such issues with demand planning, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results, which would negatively impact our liquidity. A change in our mix of product sales could result in a decrease in our future earnings and liquidity.Our products are sold at varying price points and levels of profit. An increase in the sales of our lower profit products at the expense of the sales of our higher profit products could result in a decrease in our gross margin, earnings, and liquidity.Business failures of large dealers, a group of customers or our own retail stores could result in a decrease in our future sales, earnings, and liquidity.Our business practice has been to extend payment terms to our customers when selling furniture. As a result, we have a substantial amount of receivables we manage daily. Although we have no customers who individually represent 10% or more of our total annual sales, the business failures of a large customer or a group of customers could require us to incur bad debt expense, which 7Table of Contentswould decrease earnings, as it has in past periods. Receivables collection can be significantly impacted by economic conditions. Therefore, deterioration in the economy, or a lack of economic recovery, could cause further business failures of our customers, which could in turn result in additional bad debt expense thereby lowering earnings and liquidity. These business failures can also cause loss of future sales. In addition, we are either prime tenant on or guarantor of many leases of company-branded stores operated by independent furniture dealers. The viability of these dealer stores are also highly influenced by economic conditions. Defaults by any of these dealers would result in our becoming responsible for payments under these leases. If we were to decide not to operate these stores, we would still be required to pay store occupancy costs, which would result in a reduction in our future sales, earnings and liquidity.Inventory write-downs or write-offs could result in a decrease in our earnings.Our inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market. However, future sales of inventory are dependent on economic conditions, among other things. In addition, our ability to forecast demand will impact whether inventory can be sold at the anticipated price point. Weak economic and retail conditions could cause us to reduce the selling price of our furniture in order for us to sell our product, which would result in a lowering of inventory values. In addition, if we materially overestimate demand for our products, our inventory levels will be higher than necessary and we may need to lower the cost of our products to sell off the excess inventory. Inventory write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results, which would negatively impact our liquidity.Sales distribution realignments can result in a decrease in our sales, earnings and liquidity.We continually review relationships with our wholesale customers to ensure each meets our standards. These standards cover, among others, creditworthiness, market penetration, sales growth, competitive improvements, and sound, ethical business practices. If customers do not meet our standards, we will consider discontinuing these business relationships. If we discontinue a relationship, there would likely be a decrease in near-term sales, earnings, and liquidity and possibly long-term sales, earnings and liquidity if we are unable to replace such customers.Manufacturing realignments and cost savings programs could result in a decrease in our near-term earnings and liquidity.We continually review our manufacturing operations and offshore sourcing capabilities. Effects of periodic manufacturing realignments and cost savings programs would likely result in a decrease in our near-term earnings and liquidity until the expected cost reductions are achieved. Such programs can include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems, and procedures. Certain products may also be shifted from domestic manufacturing to offshore manufacturing or sourcing, and vice versa. These realignments have, and would likely in the future, result in substantial capital expenditures and costs including, among others, severance, impairment, exit, and disposal costs. Such actions may not be accomplished as quickly as anticipated and the expected cost reductions may not be achieved in full, both of which have, and could in the future, result in a decrease in our near-term earnings and liquidity.Reliance on offshore sourcing of our products subjects us to government regulations and currency fluctuations which could result in a decrease in our earnings and liquidity.We have offshore capabilities that provide flexibility in product programs and pricing to meet competitive pressures. Risks inherent in conducting business internationally include, among others, fluctuations in foreign-currency exchange rates, changes to and compliance with government regulations and policies, including those related to duties, tariffs, and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, repatriation of earnings, and changes in local political or economic conditions, all of which could increase our costs and decrease our earnings and liquidity.Our operations depend on production facilities located outside the United States which are subject to increased risks of disrupted production which could cause delays in shipments, loss of customers, and decreases in sales, earnings, and liquidity.We have placed production in emerging markets to capitalize on market opportunities and to minimize our costs. Our international production operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity, or public health concerns, particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences. Our production abroad may also be more susceptible to changes in laws and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval than our domestic production. Any such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products, loss of customers, and decreases in sales, earnings and liquidity.Fluctuations in the price, availability, or quality of raw materials or sourced product could cause delays in production and product delivery, could increase the costs of materials, and could result in a decrease in our sales, earnings, and liquidity.We use various types of wood, fabrics, leathers, glass, upholstered filling material, steel, and other raw materials in manufacturing furniture. We also source products from independent manufacturers. Our suppliers could choose to discontinue business with us or could change the terms under which they are willing to do business, such as price, minimum quantities, required lead times, or payment terms. Fluctuations in the price, availability, or quality of the raw materials we use in manufacturing or products we source could have a negative effect on our cost of sales and our ability to meet the demands of our customers. In the event of a 8Table of Contentssignificant disruption in our supply of raw materials or sourced product, we may not be able to locate alternative sources at an acceptable price or in a timely manner. Inability to meet the demands of our customers could result in the loss of future sales. In addition, if the price of raw materials increases we may not be able to pass along to our customers all or a portion of our higher costs due to competitive and market pressures, which could decrease our earnings and liquidity. Also, if payment terms with our suppliers and vendors shorten, it could adversely impact our liquidity.We are subject to litigation, environmental regulations, and governmental matters that could adversely impact our sales, earnings, and liquidity.We are, and may in the future be, a party to legal proceedings and claims, including, but not limited to, those involving product liability, business matters, government regulatory and trade compliance matters, and environmental matters, some of which claim significant damages. We face the business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but there can be no assurance such coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage will be adequate to cover exposures. We also are, and may in the future be, a party to legal proceedings and claims arising out of certain customer or dealer terminations as we continue to re-examine and realign our retail distribution strategy. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, these matters could have a material adverse impact on our sales, earnings, and liquidity. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. All of these matters could cause a decrease in our sales, earnings, and liquidity.We may not realize the anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, or dispositions.As part of our business strategy, we may merge with or acquire businesses and divest assets and operations. Risks commonly encountered in mergers and acquisitions include the possibility that we pay more than the acquired company or assets are worth, the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, and the distraction of our management from ongoing business. Consideration paid for future acquisitions could be in the form of cash or stock or a combination thereof, which could result in dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share. We may also evaluate the potential disposition of assets and operations that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or operations, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternate exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner. In addition, we may dispose of assets at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated.We could be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange, which would have an impact on our stockholders' ability to sell their shares of stock.There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained on the New York Stock Exchange. The New York Stock Exchange may delist our stock if we fail to meet its continued listing requirements, including its requirement of maintaining a minimum average closing price of $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30-trading-day period. On December 18, 2012, we received a notice from the New York Stock Exchange that the average price of our common stock had traded below a consecutive 30-trading-day average of $1.00 per share. As a result, we were required to bring our average closing price above $1.00 within the longer of six months from receipt of the notification or our next annual meeting of shareholders if a shareholders' action was proposed. We were subsequently notified by the New York Stock Exchange that we regained compliance with this requirement on February 5, 2013. However, there is no guarantee that we will not receive another notice from the New York Stock Exchange and that we will be able to regain compliance if we receive such notice. If we are unable to regain compliance, we may be delisted. If trading in our stock is less active, stockholders may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price.We may effect a reverse stock split to avoid our common stock being delisted from the New York Stock Exchange, which could be viewed negatively and could lead to a decrease in our overall market capitalization. We may effect a reverse stock split in order to avoid being delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. However, while we expect that the resulting reduction in our outstanding shares of common stock will increase the market price of our common stock, we cannot be assured that the reverse stock split will increase the market price of our common stock by a multiple equal to the number of pre-split shares in the reverse split ratio, or result in any permanent increase in the market price. In some cases the stock price of companies that have effected reverse stock splits has subsequently declined. A reverse stock split is often viewed negatively by the market and, consequently, could lead to a decrease in our overall market capitalization.Loss of key personnel or the inability to hire qualified personnel could adversely affect our business.Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain our key personnel, including our executive officers and senior management team. The unexpected loss of one or more of our key employees could adversely affect our business. Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to retain the appropriate level of personnel and to identify, hire, train, and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for employees can be intense. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business.9Table of ContentsImpairment of our trade name intangible assets would result in a decrease in our earnings and net worth.Our trade names are tested for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Trade names are tested by comparing the carrying value and fair value of each trade name to determine the amount, if any, of impairment. The fair value of our trade names is estimated using a “relief from royalty payments” methodology, which is highly contingent upon assumed sales trends and projections, royalty rates, and a discount rate. Lower sales trends, decreases in projected net sales, decreases in royalty rates, or increases in the discount rate would cause impairment charges and a corresponding reduction in our earnings and net worth, as it has in past periods.Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our shareholders’ rights plan could discourage a takeover and could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock.Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and shareholders’ rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that may make the acquisition of control by a third party without the approval of our board of directors more difficult, including provisions relating to the issuance of stock without shareholder approval. In addition, we have also adopted a dual-trigger shareholders’ rights plan designed to deter shareholders from acquiring shares of stock in excess of 4.75% in order to reduce the risk of limitation of use of our net operating loss carry forwards under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, and to protect our stockholders against potential acquirers who may pursue coercive or unfair tactics aimed at gaining control of the Company without paying all stockholders a full and fair price. These provisions may have unintended anti-takeover effects and may delay or prevent a change in control, which could result in a decrease of the price of our common stock.A change in control could limit the use of our net operating loss carry forwards and decrease a potential acquirer’s valuation of our businesses, both of which could decrease our liquidity and earnings.If a change in control occurs pursuant to applicable statutory regulations, we are potentially subject to limitations on the use of our net operating loss carry forwards which in turn could adversely impact our future liquidity and profitability. A change in control could also decrease a potential acquirer’s valuation of our businesses and discourage a potential acquirer from purchasing our businesses.If we and our dealers are not able to open new stores or effectively manage the growth of these stores, our ability to grow sales and our profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected.We have in the past and may continue in the future to open new stores or purchase or otherwise assume operation of branded stores from independent dealers. Increased demands on our operational, managerial, and administrative resources could cause us to operate our business, including our existing and new stores, less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in our profitability. If we and our dealers are not able to identify and open new stores in desirable locations and operate stores profitably, including the growth of same store sales, it could adversely impact our ability to grow sales and our profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected.We may not be able to comply with our financing arrangements or secure additional financing on favorable terms, or generate sufficient profit to meet our future operating and capital needs, which could have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity and our business.Our availability to borrow is dependent on certain provisions of our debt agreements, including those described in Note 6 “Long-Term Debt” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The breach of any of these provisions could result in a default under our debt agreements and could trigger acceleration of repayment, which would have a significant adverse impact to our liquidity and our business. While we would attempt to obtain waivers for noncompliance, we may not be able to obtain waivers, which could have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity and our business. Also, our availability to borrow is dependent on our borrowing base calculations. Our borrowing base calculations are subject to periodic examinations by our lenders which could result in unfavorable adjustments to the borrowing base and our availability to borrow. We also intend to maintain our availability at levels which will not subject us to weekly borrowing base reporting or cash dominion. However, increases in our outstanding borrowings or decreases in the borrowing base, or a combination of both, may subject us to weekly borrowing base reporting and cash dominion requirements. In addition, if we do not obtain certain EBITDA targets for the year we would be subject to additional reserves against our revolving credit facility, reducing our availability. In addition, we maintain certain payment terms with our suppliers and vendors. In certain instances, we defer payments beyond the stated payment terms. If the payment terms with our suppliers and vendors decrease or if we are unable to continue to defer payments to certain suppliers, it could adversely impact our liquidity.The Company incurred a net loss of $47.3 million and $43.8 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively and operations did not generate cash flows in both years. A continued trend of operating losses and lack of cash flow generation would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. If we do not have sufficient cash reserves, cash flow from our operations, supplier or vendor payment terms, or borrowing capacity, we may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in the future in order to meet our operating and capital needs. Nevertheless, we may not be able to secure 10Table of Contentsadequate debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. In the event that we are unable to raise additional funds, our liquidity will be adversely impacted and our business could suffer. If we are able to secure additional financing, these funds could be costly to secure and maintain, which could significantly impact our earnings and our liquidity. Also, if we raise additional funds or settle liabilities through issuances of equity or convertible securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, any debt financing that we may secure in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions.Any material disruption of our information systems could disrupt our business and adversely impact our financial condition. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and cybersecurity concerns. These may be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, viruses, cyber incidents, or similar events or disruptions. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions could prevent retail store transactions, compromise our data or customer data, result in delays in the manufacturing and shipping of our products to customers or lost sales. System failures and disruptions could also impede transaction processing and financial reporting.We must successfully maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems.We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations. We are currently in the process of implementing new systems to replace and/or consolidate our legacy systems. The timing of the implementation may be impacted by a variety of factors, including availability of funds. During the implementation and upgrade, we may be subject to certain risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of the internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new and different systems. Any information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a negative impact on our sales and earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.11Table of Contents