Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of a number of factors. Such factors are set forth below. We may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the future. An economic downturn could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. The residential furniture industry is subject to cyclical variations in the general economy and to uncertainty regarding future economic prospects. Economic downturns could affect consumer spending habits by decreasing the overall demand for home furnishings. Such events would also impact retailers, our primary customers, resulting in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Loss of market share due to competition would result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. The residential furniture industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with many other manufacturers and retailers some of which offer widely-advertised, well-known, branded products, and large retail furniture dealers who offer their own store-branded products. The highly competitive nature of the industry means we are constantly subject to the risk of losing market share. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or to raise the prices of our products in response to such inflationary pressures as increasing costs. Also due to the large number of competitors and their wide range of product offerings, we may not be able to differentiate our products (through styling, finish and other construction techniques) from those of our competitors. Large retail furniture dealers have the ability to obtain offshore sourcing on their own. Failure to forecast demand or respond to changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends in a timely manner could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. Residential furniture is a highly styled product subject to fashion trends and geographic consumer tastes. Consumer tastes and fashion trends can change rapidly. If we are unable to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends in a timely manner or to otherwise forecast demand accurately, we may lose sales and face excess inventory (both raw materials and finished goods). Disposal of excess inventory may result in a decrease in sales and earnings. Failure to achieve our projected mix of product sales could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. Some of our products are sold for a higher profit than other of our products. An increase in the sales of our lower profit products at the expense of the sales of our higher profit products could result in a decrease in our earnings. Business failures of large dealers and customers could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. Although we have no customers who individually represent 10% or more of our total annual sales, the possibility of business failures of large customers could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. Also, we are either lessee on or guarantor of many leases of Company-brand stores operated by independent furniture dealers. Defaults by any of these dealers would result in our becoming responsible for payments under these leases and could reduce our future earnings. Distribution realignments and cost savings programs can result in a decrease in our near-term sales and earnings. At times it is necessary that we discontinue certain relationships with customers (retailers) who do not meet our growth and profitability standards. Until realignment is established, there can be a 7 decrease in near-term sales and earnings. We continually review relationships with our customers (retailers) and future realignments are possible based upon such ongoing reviews. Manufacturing realignments could result in a decrease in our near-term earnings. We continually review our domestic manufacturing operations and offshore (import) sourcing capabilities. Effects of periodic manufacturing realignments and cost savings programs could result in a decrease in our near-term earnings until the expected cost reductions are achieved. Such programs can include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems and procedures. Certain products may also be shifted from domestic manufacturing to offshore sourcing. Such actions may not be accomplished as quickly as anticipated and the expected cost reductions may not be achieved in full. Increased reliance on offshore sourcing of our products subject us to changes in local government regulations and currency fluctuations which could result in a decrease in our earnings. During recent years, we have been increasing our offshore capabilities to provide flexibility in product programs and pricing to meet competitive pressures. The mix of product lines has been moving from domestically manufactured to offshore sourced. Risks include changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. Changes in the relative values of currencies could increase our costs and decrease our earnings. Our operations depend increasingly on production facilities located outside the United States which are subject to increased risks of disrupted production which could cause delays in shipments, loss of customers and decreases in sales and earnings. We have placed more production in emerging markets to capitalize on market opportunities and to minimize our costs. Our international production operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns, particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences. Our production abroad may also be more susceptible to changes in laws and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval than our domestic production. Any such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products, the loss of customers and decreases in sales and earnings. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delay which could result in a decrease in our sales and increase costs which would result in a decrease in our earnings. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the raw materials we use in manufacturing residential furniture could have a negative effect on our cost of sales and ability to meet the demands of our customers (retailers). Inability to meet the demands of our customers could result in the loss of future sales. We use various types of wood, fabrics, leathers, glass, upholstered filling material, steel, and other raw materials in manufacturing furniture. The costs to manufacture furniture depend in part on the market prices of the raw materials used to produce the furniture. We may not be able to pass along to our customers all or a portion of the costs of higher raw materials due to competitive and marketing pressures. We are subject to litigation and environmental regulations that could adversely impact our sales and earnings. We are, and may in the future be, a party to legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability and environmental matters, some of which claim significant damages. We face the business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event any of our products prove to be defective, 8 we may be required to recall or redesign such products. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but there can be no assurance such coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. We also are, and may in the future be, a party to legal proceedings and claims arising out of certain dealer terminations as we continue to re-examine and realign our retail distribution strategy. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance future litigation will not have a material adverse impact. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. Future acquisitions and investments could result in dilution to our earnings per share and a decrease in the valuation of our Common Stock. As part of our business strategy, we may make acquisitions and investments in businesses that offer complementary products. Risks commonly encountered in acquisitions include the possibility that we pay more than the acquired company or assets are worth, the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of our management from ongoing business. Consideration paid for future acquisitions could be in the form of cash or stock or a combination thereof. Dilution to existing stockholders and to earnings per share may result in connection with any such future acquisition. Impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill and intangibles would result in a decrease in our earnings. Accounting rules require that long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets be evaluated for impairment at least annually. We have substantial long-lived assets, goodwill and trademarks, which based upon the outcome of such evaluations has resulted and could in the future result in the write-down of all or a portion of these assets and a corresponding reduction in our earnings and net worth. Certain anti-takeover provisions and preferred stock issuances could result in a decrease in a potential acquirer's valuation of our Common Stock. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Also, our Certificate of Incorporation allows us to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Such issuances could also make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, we have a shareholders' rights plan which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our growth strategy includes the development of new stores each year. If we and our dealers are not able to open new stores or effectively manage the growth of these stores, our ability to grow and our profitability could be adversely affected. Our growth in part depends on our ability and the ability of our dealers to open and operate new stores successfully. We have in the past and will likely continue to purchase or otherwise assume operation of Company-brand stores from independent dealers. Our ability and the ability of our dealers to identify and open new stores in desirable locations and operate such stores profitably is a factor in our ability to grow successfully. Increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in our profitability. 9 Loss of funding sources would adversely impact our business. Access to funding through the financial markets is important to our business operations and if we are unable to maintain such access we could experience an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Failure to maintain satisfactory financial performance could adversely affect our access to the financial markets or increase our financing costs. See discussion of financial covenants included in Financing Arrangements section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on page 16. Reduced trade credit terms could impact our cash flow. Part of our short term funding is from vendors who extend us payment terms. If industry fundamentals or practices cause a shortening or elimination of these terms the upfront need for cash would reduce our cash position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 10 