ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These include, but are not limited to, those discussed below in this Section 1A, which we consider to be most relevant to our current business activities. These risks and uncertainties could cause our actual future business and financial results to differ from our past results. They also could cause our actual results to vary from expected results described in statements elsewhere in this Report that constitute “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The occurrence of any of these risks or uncertainties, or of other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we consider immaterial at present, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is dependent upon residential and commercial real estate construction and remodeling activities and declines in these activities could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our revenues and results of operations are directly affected by levels of new residential and commercial real estate construction and remodeling and replacement activities in North America, and declines in these activities could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Mortgage lending rates 5 and other prevailing interest rates, energy costs, consumer confidence, general and regional economic conditions and weather conditions, generally, can significantly impact the levels of these activities. New housing starts in our primary geographic markets have declined in recent months, and there is no assurance that they will not decline further. Historically, we have sought to offset the impact on our revenues of declines in residential and commercial real estate activities by seeking to increase our market share in the geographic markets we serve and, to a lesser extent, new product introductions and expansion into new geographic markets. Historically, we have not pursued growth through acquisitions, although we may seek to do so at any time. Consequently, our financial performance will depend, in part, upon our ability to increase our penetration in our existing markets and to introduce new products or enter new geographic markets in the event of such declines. We face significant competition. The markets for our residential and commercial products are highly competitive. Competition in our residential, commercial and extrusion segments is based largely on price performance, quality, brand reputation, style, delivery, customer service and exclusivity. Although the relative importance of such factors varies among our customers and product categories, price is often a primary factor. Our ability to maintain or increase our market positions and to grow our businesses depends to a significant extent upon our success in managing our cost structure and competing effectively on price. Our operating results are affected by the cost and availability of aluminum, vinyl resins, glass and other commodities, and cost increases may adversely affect our results of operations. If we experience unexpected or unusual cost increases for raw materials, energy or other commodities, it may be difficult for us to pass these increased costs on to our non-affiliated customers due to outstanding commitments, competitive considerations and our customers’ resistance to accepting such price increases. We have occasionally encountered unusual price increases in aluminum raw materials due to supply shortages or other factors. A substantial increase in the cost of raw material or other commodities from our suppliers could adversely impact our results of operations. Our ability to grow could be adversely affected if we are not successful in developing or acquiring new facilities. We may seek to expand our business by developing or selectively acquiring new facilities. Our ability to grow could be adversely affected if we are not successful in our development and acquisition activities. 6 We are subject to potential product liability claims and other litigation, which could be costly to defend and could result in liability to us. Residential and commercial builders and remodelers, including our customers, are increasingly subject to construction defect and warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. These claims are increasingly leading to product defect and similar claims, including putative class actions, against manufacturers of roofing, siding, windows and similar building components. We also are subject to direct claims for product liability that can be costly to defend and can result in significant liability. See Part I, Item 3, and Note 4 to the Notes of Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses, including a pending class-action lawsuit based upon alleged defects in some of our residential aluminum window products. Our international business has different risks from those of our United States business, including currency exchange risks. Approximately 6% of our sales are derived outside of the United States (principally in Canada) and are transacted in currencies other than U.S. Dollars (principally the Canadian Dollar). Our international business faces political, monetary, economic and other risks that vary from those facing our United States operations. Our operating results also can fluctuate based on changes in U.S. Dollar exchange rates, which also present difficulties in comparing our operating performance from period to period. The loss of key executives and our failure to attract additional qualified management personnel could negatively impact our business and operations. We depend highly upon our senior management personnel, and we anticipate the need to hire additional qualified persons to add depth to our management team. We also will need to hire and train additional managers in connection with any increased development or acquisition of new facilities. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management, or our inability to hire, train and effectively utilize additional qualified management personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our administrative expenses also will increase to the extent we hire additional management personnel. Our revenues and results of operations will fluctuate. Our revenues, expenses, and results of operations will vary from quarter-to-quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include: 7 · seasonal and cyclical changes that may adversely affect the residential and commercial real estate construction markets; · demand and price for our products; · fluctuations in the price of raw materials and other commodities; · delays in developing and introducing products; · unexpected downtime in operations due to work stoppages or other employee problems; · increased expenses related to operations, administration, litigation claims, or otherwise; · the mix of revenues derived from product sales; · the hiring, retention, and utilization of management and other personnel; · general economic factors; · changes in generally accepted accounting principles affecting our reported financial results; and · changes in tax laws and the effect on our effective tax rates. We may undertake strategic transactions that may fail to occur or to enhance shareholder value. From time to time, we may consider possible strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, and other alternatives, with the goal of increasing shareholder value. We may incur significant transaction costs in connection with any such transaction, whether or not any transaction is actually completed. Any strategic transaction we complete also may result in non-recurring or other charges and may pose significant integration challenges and management and business disruptions, any of which could adversely affect our results of operation and business prospects. 8 We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by materials that we handle, and changes in environmental regulations could cause us to incur additional expense. Our manufacturing operations involve the handling of hazardous materials, and we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. If violations of environmental, health and safety laws occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties and costs of remedial actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may violate environmental, health and safety laws in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws also could become more stringent in the future, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We may be subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental groups. Our failure to comply with new or existing laws or regulations could harm our business and results of operations. Changes to or restrictions on permitting requirements or processes, hazardous or biological material storage or handling might require an unplanned capital investment or relocation of our facilities, which could adversely affect our business and operations. We may be unable to obtain permits that are required to operate our business. Although we have obtained permits necessary to operate our existing facilities the granting of these permits is also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. Our failure to obtain or renew the permits necessary to operate our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The market price of our stock is subject to fluctuation. The market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate and could be adversely affected by many factors, including: · announcements of new products or new strategic relationships by us or our competitors; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to declines in revenues, increased expenses or other factors; 9 · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, and whether our earnings meet or exceed such estimates; · conditions and trends in our industry, including cyclical declines in the residential or commercial real estate construction activity; · general economic and market conditions and other factors; · the adoption and implementation of new accounting standards; and · the occurrence of any of the other risks described in this Form 10-K or in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any disruption at our facilities could increase our expenses. We take precautions to safeguard our facilities against the risks to which they are subject, including by means of insurance and health and safety protocols. However, a natural disaster, such as a fire, flood or earthquake, could cause substantial disruptions in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. Our financial results for future periods may be adversely affected by changes required by financial and accounting regulatory agencies. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect even the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Although we believe that our accounting practices are consistent with current accounting pronouncements, changes to or interpretations of accounting methods or policies in the future may require us to reclassify, restate or otherwise change or revise our financial statements. 10 Concentration of ownership by our principal shareholder may prevent a change of control and influence other significant corporate decisions. As of June 30, 2006, Cornelius C. Vanderstar owned beneficially more than 40% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of his ownership, Mr. Vanderstar will be able to significantly affect the outcome of any matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, and will have significant control over our management and policies. Mr. Vanderstar, who was 91 as of June 30, 2006, may have interests that are different from those of our shareholders, generally, and may support proposals and actions with which our other shareholders may disagree. The concentration of ownership of our outstanding stock could discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of our company, which in turn could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Vanderstar could use his voting power to effectively maintain our existing management and directors in office, delay or prevent changes of control of our company, or support or reject other management and board proposals that are subject to shareholder approval, such as adoption or amendments to employee stock option plans and approvals of significant financing transactions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 11 