Item 1A. Risk Factors: Economic Environment and Corporate IT Spending Budgets: If overall demand for systems, software and services changes, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in corporate buying patterns, sales performance could be impacted. IBM's diverse portfolio of products and offerings is designed to gain market share in strong and weak economic climates. The company accomplishes this by not only having a mix of offerings with long-term cash and income streams as well as cyclical transaction-based sales, but also by continually developing competitive products and solutions and effectively managing a skilled resource base. IBM continues to transform itself to take advantage of shifting demand trends, focusing on client or industry-specific solutions, business performance and open standards. Internal Business Transformation and Global Integration Initiatives: IBM continues to drive greater productivity, flexibility and cost savings by transforming and globally integrating its own business processes and functions. In 2005, the company realigned its operations and organizational structure in Europe to give sales and delivery teams greater authority, accountability and flexibility to make decisions and to execute more effectively on behalf of our clients. Additionally, in 2005, many of the company's corporate functions—such as Legal, Finance, Human Resources, Information Technology, and Real Estate Site Operations—which had been previously replicated for many of the individual countries where IBM operates were integrated so that they could be managed and their resources optimized on a global scale. In addition to eliminating redundancies and overhead structures to drive productivity, this integration improves IBM's capacity to innovate by providing greater clarity of key priorities around shared goals and objectives and leads to a sharper focus for the company on learning, development and knowledge sharing. Innovation Initiatives: IBM invests to improve its ability to help its clients innovate. Investment may occur in the research and development of new products and services, as well as in the establishment of new collaborative and co-creation relationships with developers, other companies, and other institutions. To deliver value that helps clients differentiate themselves for competitive advantage, IBM has been moving away from commoditized categories of the IT industry and into areas in which it can differentiate itself through innovation and by leveraging its investments in R&D. Examples include IBM's leadership position in the design and fabrication of ASICs; the design of smaller, faster and energy-efficient semiconductor devices; the design of "grid" computing networks that allow computers to share processing power; the transformation and integration of business processes; and the company's efforts to advance open technology standards and to engage with governments, academia, think tanks and nongovernmental organizations on emerging trends in technology, society and culture. In the highly competitive IT industry, with large diversified competitors as well as smaller and nimble single-technology competitors, IBM's ability to continue its cutting-edge innovation is critical to maintaining and increasing market share. IBM is managing this risk by more closely linking its R&D organization to industry-specific and client-specific needs, as discussed in Description of Business—IBM Worldwide Organizations. 8 Open Standards: The broad adoption of open standards is essential to the computing model for on demand business and is a significant driver of collaborative innovation across all industries. Without interoperability among all manner of computing platforms, the integration of any client's internal systems, applications and processes remains a monumental and expensive task. The broad-based acceptance of open standards—rather than closed, proprietary architectures—also allows the computing infrastructure to more easily absorb (and thus benefit from) new technical innovations. IBM is committed to fostering open standards because they are vital to the On Demand Operating Environment, and because their acceptance will expand growth opportunities across the entire business services and IT industry. There are a number of competitors in the IT industry with significant resources and investments who are committed to closed and proprietary platforms as a way to lock customers into a particular architecture. This competition will result in increased pricing pressure and/or IP claims and proceedings. IBM's support of open standards is evidenced by the enabling of its products to support open standards such as Linux, and the development of Rational software development tools, which can be used to develop and upgrade any other company's software products. Investing in Growth Opportunities: The company is continuing to refocus its business on the higher value segments of enterprise computing—providing technology and transformation services to clients' businesses. Consistent with that focus, the company continues to significantly invest in growth opportunities, as a way to drive revenue growth and market share gain. Areas of investment include strategic acquisitions, primarily in software and services, focused client and industry-specific solutions, Business Performance Transformation Services, key technologies and emerging growth countries such as China, Russia, India and Brazil. Protection of Intellectual Property: While the company's various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products. Licenses under patents owned by IBM have been and are being granted to others under reasonable terms and conditions. These protections may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative to the company's nor can there be any assurance that these protections will adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of the company's technology. Also, there can be no assurances that IBM will be able to obtain from third parties the licenses it needs in the future. Seasonality of Revenues: IBM's revenues are affected by such factors as the introduction of new products, the length of the sales cycles and the seasonality of technology purchases. As a result, the company's results are difficult to predict. These factors historically have resulted in lower revenue in the first quarter than in the immediately preceding fourth quarter. Local Legal, Economic and Health Conditions: The company operates in more than 160 countries worldwide and derives more than half of its revenues from sales outside the United States. Changes in the laws or policies of the countries in which the company operates could affect the company's business in that country and the company's results of operations. The company's results of operations also could be affected by economic and political changes in those countries and by macroeconomic changes, including recessions and inflation. In addition, any widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), avian influenza (bird flu) or any other pandemic, or local or global health issues, could adversely affect the company's operations, its ability to source and deliver products and services to its customers, and customer demand. Insurance: The company maintains third party insurance coverage against various liability risks and risks of property loss. While we believe these arrangements are an effective way to insure against liability and property damage risks, the potential liabilities associated with those risks or other events could exceed the coverage provided by such arrangements. 9 Environmental Matters: The company is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise related to environmental protection, including the U.S. Superfund law. The company could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as well as third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, if it were to violate or become liable under environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company's capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position. Tax Matters: The company is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. IBM's provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact the company's results of operations and financial condition in future periods. In addition, IBM is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on the company's provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. Internal Controls: Effective internal controls are necessary for the company to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If the company cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, the company's brand and operating results could be harmed. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the company is required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If the company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if the company experiences difficulties in their implementation, the company's business and operating results could be harmed, the company could fail to meet its reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on the company's stock price. Use of Estimates: In connection with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the company uses certain estimates and assumptions, which are based on historical experience and management's knowledge of current events and actions that the company may undertake in the future. The company's most critical accounting estimates are described in the Management Discussion on pages 40 to 42 of IBM's 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. In addition, as discussed in note O, "Contingencies and Commitments" on pages 76 to 79 of IBM's 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, the company makes certain estimates under SFAS No. 5 "Accounting for Contingencies", including decisions related to legal proceedings and reserves. While management believes that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, by definition they involve the use of judgment and the exercise of discretion, and therefore actual results may differ. Competitive Conditions: The company operates in businesses that are subject to intense competitive pressures. The company's businesses face a significant number of competitors, ranging from 10 Fortune 50 companies to an increasing number of relatively small, rapidly growing and highly specialized organizations. The company believes that its combination of technology, performance, quality, reliability, price and the breadth of products and service offerings are important competitive factors. Intense competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for the company's products and services, resulting in reduced profit margins and/or loss of market opportunity. Unlike many of its competitors, the company has a broad portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of these product lines. As a result, the company may not fund or invest in certain of its businesses to the same degree that its competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than the businesses against which they compete. Volatility of Stock Price: The company's stock price is affected by a number of factors, including quarterly variations in financial results, the competitive landscape, general economic and market conditions and estimates and projections by the investment community. As a result, like other technology companies, the company's stock price is subject to significant volatility. Dependence on and Compensation of Key Personnel: Much of the future success of the company depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. There can be no assurance that IBM will be able to successfully retain and attract the key personnel it needs. In addition, companies in the information technology and services industry whose employees accept positions with IBM may claim that IBM has interfered with noncompete obligations of their former employees, engaged in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons by IBM would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. Any such claims could limit or prevent IBM from hiring employees or cause it to incur liability for damages or substantial costs in defending the company or its employees against these claims, whether or not they have merit. Further, many of IBM's key personnel receive a total compensation package that includes equity awards. New regulations, volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish the company's use, and the value, of the company's equity awards, putting the company at a competitive disadvantage or forcing the company to use more cash compensation. Relationships with Critical Suppliers: IBM's business employs a wide variety of components, supplies, services and raw materials from a substantial number of suppliers around the world. Certain of the company's businesses rely on single or limited number of suppliers, although the company makes every effort to assure that alternative sources are available if the need arises. The failure of the company's suppliers to deliver components, supplies, services and raw materials in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner could adversely affect the company's business. Currency and Customer Financing Risks: The company derives a significant percentage of its non-U.S. revenues from its affiliates operating in local currency environments and its results are affected by changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies and the U.S. dollar. Further, inherent in the company's customer financing business are risks related to the concentration of credit risk and the creditworthiness of the client, interest rate and currency fluctuations on the associated debt and liabilities and the determination of residual values. The company employs a number of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivative financial instruments. Derivatives involve the risk of non-performance by the counterparty. In addition, there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to manage these risks will be successful. Customer Credit Risk on Trade Receivables: The company's diversified client base includes a large number of worldwide enterprises, from small and medium businesses to the world's largest organizations, companies and governments. Most of the company's sales are on an open credit basis 11 and the company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its clients' financial conditions. The company maintains reserves that it believes are adequate to cover exposure for any uncollectible trade receivables and regularly reviews such reserves by considering factors such as write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known troubled accounts. Customer credit risk is mitigated due to the large number of clients constituting the company's worldwide client base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographies. If the company becomes aware of additional information related to the credit worthiness of a major customer, or if future actual default rates on trade receivables in general differ from those currently anticipated, the company may have to adjust its reserves, which could affect the company's consolidated net income in the period the adjustments are made. Distribution Channels: The company offers its products directly and through a variety of third party distributors and resellers. Changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors and resellers could subject the company to losses and affect its ability to bring its products to market. Acquisitions and Alliances: The company has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions or enter into alliances from time to time. Acquisitions and alliances present significant challenges and risks relating to the integration of the business into the company, and there can be no assurances that the company will manage acquisitions and alliances successfully. The related risks include the company failing to achieve strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings, as well as the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and the assumption of liabilities related to litigation or other legal proceedings involving the acquired business. Risk Factors Related to IBM Securities: The company issues debt securities in the worldwide capital markets from time to time, with a variety of different maturities and in different currencies. The value of our debt securities fluctuates based on many factors, including changes in interest rates, the methods employed for calculating principal and interest, the maturity of the securities, the aggregate principal amount of securities outstanding, the redemption features for the securities, the level, direction and volatility of interest rates, changes in exchange rates, exchange controls, governmental and stock exchange regulations, and other factors over which the company has little or no control. The company's ability to pay interest and repay the principal for its debt securities is dependent upon its ability to manage its business operations, as well as the other risks described under Item 1A entitled "Risk Factors". There can be no assurance that the company will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. The company also issues its common stock from time to time in connection with various compensation plans, contributions to its pension plan and certain acquisitions. The market price of IBM common stock is subject to significant volatility, due to factors described under Item 1A entitled "Risk Factors", including the section entitled "Volatility of Stock Price", as well as economic and geopolitical conditions generally, trading volumes, speculation by the press or investment community about our financial condition, and other factors, many of which are beyond the company's control. Since the market price of IBM's common stock fluctuates significantly, stockholders may not be able to sell our stock at attractive prices. In addition, changes by any rating agency to the company's outlook or credit ratings can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. The company does not make a market in either its debt or equity securities, and cannot provide any assurances with respect to the liquidity or value of such securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: Not applicable. 12 