Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below and all other information in this report. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Additional information on risk factors is included in Item 1.—Business and Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by volatility in the demand for our products, which may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control. Our success depends on the sustained demand for our products. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending on our products, including, among other things, general economic conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, the effects of war, terrorism, fuel prices and consumer confidence in future economic conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Economic conditions have recently deteriorated significantly in the United States, and worldwide, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Because consumer purchases of our products decline during periods of economic downturn, when disposable income is lower, our revenues and earnings have been adversely affected and may continue to be if the global economic downturn continues. The growth of our greeting card business is critical to future profitability and cash flow. One of our key business strategies has been to gain profitable market share by revamping our core greeting card business. Although the majority of the expense associated with these efforts has now been incurred, the need to continuously update and refresh our product offerings is an ongoing, evolving process that will continue to impact net sales, earnings and cash flows over future periods. The actual amount and timing of the expenditures will depend on the success of the strategy and the schedules of our retail partners. Moreover, our long-term success will depend in part on how well we implement our strategy to revamp the greeting card business and we cannot assure you that this strategy will either increase our revenue or profitability. Even if we are able to implement, to a significant degree, this strategy, we may experience systemic, cultural and operational challenges that may prevent any significant increase in profitability or that may otherwise negatively influence our cash flow. In addition, even if our strategy is successful, our profitability may be adversely affected if consumer demand for lower priced, value cards continues to expand, thereby eroding our average selling prices. Our strategy may also have flaws and may not be successful. For example, we may not be able to anticipate or respond in a timely manner to changing customer demands and preferences for greeting cards. If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to grant significant credits or accept significant returns, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Conversely, shortages of key items could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a few mass-market retail customers for a significant portion of our sales. A few of our customers are material to our business and operations. Net sales to our five largest customers, which include mass merchandisers and chain drug stores, accounted for approximately 36%, 37% and 36% of total revenue for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Approximately 55% of the North American Social Expression Products segment’s revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was attributable to its top five customers, and approximately 40% of the International Social Expression Products segment’s revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was attributable to its top three customers. Net sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries accounted for approximately 15%, 16% and 16% of total revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. There can be no assurance that our large customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities that they have in the past. The loss of sales to one of our large customers could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 5 We operate in extremely competitive markets, and our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. We operate in highly competitive industries. There are an estimated 3,000 greeting card publishers in the United States ranging from small family-run organizations to major corporations. In general, however, the greeting card business is extremely concentrated. We believe that we are one of only two main suppliers offering a full line of social expression products. Our main competitor, Hallmark Cards, Inc., may have substantially greater financial, technical or marketing resources, a greater customer base, stronger name recognition and a lower cost of funds than we do. That competitor may also have longstanding relationships with certain large customers to which it may offer products that we do not provide, putting us at a competitive disadvantage. As a result, this competitor as well as other competitors that may be smaller than us, may be able to: • adapt to changes in customer requirements or consumer preferences more quickly; • take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily; • devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of its products; and • adopt more aggressive pricing policies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in this market or against such competition. If we are unable to introduce new and innovative products that are attractive to our customers and ultimate consumers, or if we are unable to allocate sufficient resources to effectively market and advertise our products to achieve widespread market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively, our sales may be adversely affected, we may be required to take certain financial charges, including goodwill impairments, and our results of operations and financial condition could otherwise be adversely affected. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by retail consolidations. With the growing trend toward retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon a reduced number of key retailers whose bargaining strength is growing. We may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retail customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to display space, scan-based trading and other conditions. Increased consolidations in the retail industry could result in other changes that could damage our business, such as a loss of customers, decreases in volume and less favorable contractual terms. In addition, as the bargaining strength of our retail customers grows, we may be required to grant greater credits, discounts, allowances and other incentive considerations to these customers. We may not be able to recover the costs of these incentives if the customer does not purchase a sufficient amount of products during the term of its agreement with us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Bankruptcy of key customers could give rise to an inability to pay us and increase our exposure to losses from bad debts. Many of our largest customers are mass-market retailers. The mass-market retail channel in the U.S. has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors in recent years. In addition, the retail industry in general has experienced significant declines due to the worldwide downturn in the economy and decreasing consumer demand. As a result, retailers have experienced liquidity problems and some have been forced to file for bankruptcy protection. There is a risk that certain of our key customers will not pay us, or that payment may be delayed because of bankruptcy or other factors beyond our control, which could increase our exposure to losses from bad debts and may require us to write-off deferred cost assets. Additionally, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if certain of these mass-market retailers were to cease doing business as a result of bankruptcy, or significantly reduce the number of stores they operate. For example, in the United Kingdom, the bankruptcy of a major customer and another major customer implementing buying freezes during fiscal 2009 contributed to our recording a goodwill impairment with respect to one reporting unit located in the United Kingdom within the International Social Expression Products segment. 6 Rapidly changing trends in the children’s entertainment market could adversely affect our business. A portion of our business and results of operations depends upon the appeal of our licensed character properties, which are used to create various toy and entertainment items for children. Consumer preferences, particularly among children, are continuously changing. The children’s entertainment industry experiences significant, sudden and often unpredictable shifts in demand caused by changes in the preferences of children to more “on trend” entertainment properties. In recent years, there have been trends towards shorter life cycles for individual youth entertainment products. Our ability to maintain our current market share and increase our market share in the future depends on our ability to satisfy consumer preferences by enhancing existing entertainment properties and developing new entertainment properties. If we are not able to successfully meet these challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, demand for our collection of entertainment properties could decrease and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may incur significant costs developing entertainment properties that may not generate future revenues at the levels that we anticipated, which could in turn create fluctuations in our reported results based on when those costs are expensed and could otherwise materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations fluctuate on a seasonal basis. The social expression industry is a seasonal business, with sales generally being higher in the second half of our fiscal year due to the concentration of major holidays during that period. Consequently, our overall results of operations in the future may fluctuate substantially based on seasonal demand for our products. Such variations in demand could have a material adverse effect on the timing of cash flows and therefore our ability to meet our obligations with respect to our debt and other financial commitments. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels, since we usually order and manufacture merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new trends are confirmed by customer orders or consumer purchases. We must carry significant amounts of inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period. If we are not successful in selling the inventory during the holiday period, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices, or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all. We rely on foreign sources of production and face a variety of risks associated with doing business in foreign markets. We rely to a significant extent on foreign manufacturers and suppliers for various products we distribute to customers. In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their products from foreign sources. We generally do not have long-term supply contracts and some of our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas. In addition, a portion of our current operations are conducted and located abroad. The success of our sales to, and operations in, foreign markets depends on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including economic conditions in the foreign countries in which we sell our products. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: • political instability, civil unrest and labor shortages; • imposition of new legislation and customs’ regulations relating to imports that may limit the quantity and/or increase the cost of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries in a particular region; • lack of effective product quality control procedures by foreign manufacturers and suppliers; • currency and foreign exchange risks; and • potential delays or disruptions in transportation as well as potential border delays or disruptions. 7 Also, new regulatory initiatives may be implemented that have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and may include antidumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions, which could increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries. Additionally, as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, import/export/customs regulations and other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to criminal or monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could reduce the value of our products and brand. Our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, patents and all of our other intellectual property rights are important assets. We rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions and on confidentiality agreements with some employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. If these rights were infringed or invalidated, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our activities could infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, who could assert infringement claims against us. We could face costly litigation if we are forced to defend these claims. If we are unsuccessful in doing so, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We seek to register our trademarks and file for patents on significant inventions in the United States and elsewhere. These registrations could be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. In addition, our confidentiality agreements with some employees or others may not provide adequate protection in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information, or if our proprietary information otherwise becomes known, or is independently developed by competitors. We may not realize the full benefit of the material we license from third parties if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if sales revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. An important part of our business involves obtaining licenses to produce products based on various popular brands, character properties, designs and other licensed material owned by third parties. Such license agreements usually require that we pay an advance and/or provide a minimum royalty guarantee that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we will be able to recoup in profits from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of such amounts that would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may acquire or renew licenses requiring minimum guarantee payments that may result in us paying higher effective royalties if the overall benefit of obtaining the license outweighs the risk of potentially losing, not renewing or otherwise not obtaining a valuable license. When obtaining a license, we realize there is no guarantee that a particular licensed property will make a successful greeting card or other product in the eye of the ultimate consumer. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful licensed property will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future. In the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain advantageous licenses, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to a number of restrictive covenants under our borrowing arrangements, which could affect our flexibility to fund ongoing operations, uses of capital and strategic initiatives, and, if we are unable to maintain compliance with such covenants, could lead to significant challenges in meeting our liquidity requirements. The terms of our borrowing arrangements contain a number of restrictive covenants, including customary operating restrictions that limit our ability to engage in such activities as borrowing and making investments, capital expenditures and distributions on our capital stock, and engaging in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales. We are also subject to customary financial covenants, including a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. These covenants restrict the amount of our borrowings, reducing our flexibility to fund ongoing operations and 8 strategic initiatives. These borrowing arrangements are described in more detail in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Item 7 and in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Compliance with some of these covenants is based on financial measures derived from our operating results. If economic conditions deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts to our business and operating results, such as through reduced customer demand. A decline in our business could make us unable to maintain compliance with these financial covenants, in which case, we may be restricted in how we fund ongoing operations and strategic initiatives and deploy capital, including by limiting our ability to make acquisitions and dispositions, pay dividends and repurchase our stock. In addition, if we our unable to maintain compliance with our financial covenants or otherwise breach the covenants that we are subject to under our borrowing arrangements, our lenders could demand immediate payment of amounts outstanding and we would need to seek alternate financing sources to pay off such debts and to fund our ongoing operations. Such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, our credit agreement is secured by substantially all of our domestic assets, including the stock of certain of our subsidiaries. If we cannot repay all amounts that we have borrowed under our credit agreement, our lenders could proceed against our assets. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business and we may not achieve the cost savings and increased revenues anticipated as a result of these acquisitions. We recently acquired two photo sharing and personal publishing businesses, the greeting card company Recycled Paper Greetings, and the Papyrus brand and associated wholesale division of Schurman Fine Papers (“Schurman”), which supplies Papyrus brand greetings cards primarily to leading specialty, mass, grocery and drug store channels. In addition, we continue to regularly evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen our business. We cannot be sure that we will be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates, acquire candidates on acceptable terms or integrate acquired businesses successfully. Future acquisitions could cause us to take on additional compliance obligations as well as incur debt, dilution, contingent liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Integrating our recent acquisitions, as well as future businesses that we may acquire, involves significant challenges. In particular, the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations with differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of these acquired businesses will also require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from our day-to-day operations. The process of integrating operations may also cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses and the loss of key personnel. Employee uncertainty and distraction during the integration process may also disrupt our business. Our strategy is, in part, predicated on our ability to realize cost savings and to increase revenues through the acquisition of businesses that add to the breadth and depth of our products and services. Achieving these cost savings and revenue increases is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, we may not be able to realize the benefits of anticipated integration of sales forces, asset rationalization, systems integration, and more comprehensive product and service offerings. If Schurman Fine Papers is unable to operate its retail stores successfully, it could have a material adverse effect on us. On April 17, 2009, we sold our Retail Operations segment, including all 341 of our card and gift retail store assets, to Schurman, which will operate stores under the American Greetings, Carlton Cards and Papyrus brands. The failure of Schurman to operate the retail stores successfully could have a material adverse effect on us, our reputation and our brands, and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, because, under the terms of the transaction, we will remain subject to certain of the Retail Operations store leases on a contingent basis through our subleasing of stores to Schurman. We are also the predominant supplier of greeting cards and other social expression products to the retail stores, and we have provided credit support to Schurman, including up to $24.0 million of guarantees in favor of the lenders under Schurman’s senior 9 revolving credit facility as described in our Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 20, 2009. In addition, although we do not control Schurman, because Schurman is licensing the “Papyrus,” “American Greetings” and “Carlton Cards” names for the retail stores, actions taken by Schurman may be seen by the public as actions taken by us, which, in turn, could adversely affect our reputation or brands. We may be unsuccessful in increasing revenues or generating a profit from the recent acquisitions of PhotoWorks and Webshots in the digital services markets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our recent acquisitions of two photo sharing and personal publishing businesses are designed to provide us with an entry into the online photo sharing space, a significant number of unique visitors and a platform to provide consumers the ability to use their own photos to create unique, high quality physical products, including greeting cards, calendars, photo albums and photo books. However, the market for consumer photofinishing and digital imaging services is highly competitive and still emerging. The major competitors in our market are Kodak, Snapfish and Shutterfly. In addition to these major competitors, there are numerous other companies that offer online photofinishing services. Even if we establish a strong position among consumers for digital products and services, we may not be able to generate significant revenues or a profit from this market. The photography industry is also currently characterized by rapidly evolving technology and consumer demand for services and products. The introduction of digital services and products that use new technologies could render existing services and products obsolete. Our future success in this market will depend on our ability to adapt to new technologies and develop new or modify existing services, products and marketing techniques to satisfy changing consumer needs and attract new customers. We may be unsuccessful in completing the divestiture of the Strawberry Shortcake and Care Bears properties. We have entered into agreements to sell our Strawberry Shortcake and Care Bears properties for net proceeds to us of approximately $76.0 million. If this transaction fails to close, it could limit some of our financial flexibility due to the absence of additional liquidity that would have been available from the proceeds of the transaction. For information regarding the proposed divestiture of these properties, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. Increases in raw material and energy costs may materially raise our cost of goods sold and materially impact our profitability. Paper is a significant expense in the production of our greeting cards. Significant increases in paper prices, which have been volatile in past years, or increased costs of other raw materials or energy, such as fuel, may result in declining margins and operating results if market conditions prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases on our greeting cards and other social expression products. The loss of key members of our senior management and creative teams could adversely affect our business. Our success and continued growth depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our current senior management team as well as upon a number of key members of our creative staff, who have been instrumental in our success thus far, and upon our ability to attract and retain other highly capable and creative individuals. The loss of some of our senior executives or key members of our creative staff, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially and adversely affect us. We seek to compensate our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, stock ownership, bonus plans, or other incentives, but we can make no assurance that these programs will enable us to retain key employees or hire new employees. 10 If we fail to extend or renegotiate our primary collective bargaining contracts with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are party to collective bargaining contracts with our labor unions, which represent a significant number of our employees. In particular, approximately 1,600 of our employees are unionized and are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although we believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work related stoppage, we could incur higher ongoing labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Various environmental regulations and risks applicable to a manufacturer and/or distributor of consumer products may require us to take actions, which will adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations with respect to chemical usage, air emissions, wastewater and storm water discharges and other releases into the environment as well as the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, including hazardous materials. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, because legal requirements frequently change and are subject to interpretation, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements, which may be significant, or the effect on our operations as these laws and regulations may give rise to claims, uncertainties or possible loss contingencies for future environmental remediation liabilities and costs. We cannot be certain that existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, will not have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The impact of environmental laws and regulations, regulatory enforcement activities, the discovery of unknown conditions, and third party claims for damages to the environment, real property or persons could result in additional liabilities and costs in the future. We may be subject to product liability claims and our products could be subject to voluntary or involuntary recalls and other actions. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations governing product safety including, but not limited to, those regulations enforced by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. A failure to comply with such regulations, or concerns about product safety, may lead to a recall of selected products. We have experienced, and in the future may experience, recalls and defects or errors in products after their production and sale to customers. Such recalls and defects or errors could result in the rejection of our products by our retail customers and consumers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs, any of which could harm our business. Individuals could sustain injuries from our products, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from such injuries. Governmental agencies could pursue us and issue civil fines and/or criminal penalties for a failure to comply with product safety regulations. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to obtain adequate liability insurance in the future. Recalls, post-manufacture repairs of our products, product liability claims, absence or cost of insurance and administrative costs associated with recalls could harm our reputation, increase costs or reduce sales. Information technology infrastructure failures could significantly affect our business. We depend heavily on our information technology (“IT”) infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. If we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, such as a computer virus, a problem with the functioning of an important IT application, or an intentional disruption of our IT systems, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or 11 otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Any such event could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. We are refreshing our IT systems in stages in an effort to redesign and deploy new processes, organization structures and a common information system over a period of seven to ten years. Such an implementation carries substantial operations risk, including loss of data or information, unanticipated increases in costs, disruption of operations or business interruption. Further, we may not be successful implementing new systems or any new system may not perform as expected. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. Acts of nature could result in an increase in the cost of raw materials; other catastrophic events, including earthquakes, could interrupt critical functions and otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. Acts of nature could result in an increase in the cost of raw materials or a shortage of raw materials, which could influence the cost of goods supplied to us. Additionally, we have significant operations, including our largest manufacturing facility, near a major earthquake fault line in Arkansas. A catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, tornado, or other natural or man-made disaster, could disrupt our operations and impair production or distribution of our products, damage inventory, interrupt critical functions or otherwise affect our business negatively, harming our results of operations. Members of the Weiss family and related entities, whose interests may differ from those of other shareholders, own a substantial portion of our common shares. Our authorized capital stock consists of Class A common shares and Class B common shares. The economic rights of each class of common shares are identical, but the voting rights differ. Class A common shares are entitled to one vote per share and Class B common shares are entitled to ten votes per share. There is no public trading market for the Class B common shares, which are held by members of the extended family of American Greetings’ founder, officers and directors of American Greetings and their extended family members, family trusts, institutional investors and certain other persons. As of April 28, 2009, Morry Weiss, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Zev Weiss, the Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Weiss, the President and Chief Operating Officer, and Erwin Weiss, the Senior Vice President, Enterprise Resource Planning, together with other members of the Weiss family and certain trusts and foundations established by the Weiss family beneficially owned approximately 90% in the aggregate of our outstanding Class B common shares (approximately 87%, excluding stock options that are presently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of April 28, 2009), which, together with Class A common shares beneficially owned by them, represents approximately 50% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock (approximately 43%, excluding stock options that are presently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of April 28, 2009). Accordingly, these members of the Weiss family, together with the trusts and foundations established by them, would be able to significantly influence the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our Articles of Incorporation or Code of Regulations, and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, and their interests may not be aligned with your interests. The existence of these levels of ownership concentrated in a few persons makes it less likely that any other shareholder will be able to affect our management or strategic direction. These factors may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our management or voting control or our acquisition by a third party. Our charter documents and Ohio law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Certain provisions of Ohio law and our charter documents, together or separately, could have the effect of making it more difficult or discouraging for a third party to acquire or attempt to acquire control of American Greetings and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common shares. For example, our charter documents establish a classified board of directors, serving staggered three-year terms, 12 allow the removal of directors only for cause, and establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, while shareholders do have the right to cumulative voting in the election of directors, Class B common shares have ten votes per share. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 