Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below and all other information in this report. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Additional information on risk factors is included in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 5 Table of Contents There are factors outside of our control that may decrease the demand for our products and services, which may adversely affect our performance. Our success depends on the sustained demand for our products. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending on our products, including, among other things, general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, weather, fuel prices and consumer confidence in future economic conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Beginning in fiscal 2009, economic conditions deteriorated significantly in the United States, and worldwide, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. During periods of economic decline, when discretionary income is lower, consumers or potential consumers could delay, reduce or forego their purchases of our products and services, which reduces our sales. In addition, during such periods, advertising revenue in our AG Interactive businesses decline, as advertisers reduce their advertising budgets. A prolonged economic downturn or slow economic recovery may also lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Providing new and compelling products is critical to our future profitability and cash flow. One of our key business strategies has been to gain profitable market share by providing relevant, compelling and a superior product offering. As a result, the need to continuously update and refresh our product offerings is an ongoing, evolving process requiring expenditures and investments that will continue to impact net sales, earnings and cash flows over future periods. At times, the amount and timing of such expenditures and investments depends on the success of a product offering as well as the schedules of our retail partners. We cannot assure you that this strategy will either increase our revenue or profitability. In addition, even if our strategy is successful, our profitability may be adversely affected if consumer demand for lower priced, value cards continues to expand, thereby eroding our average selling prices. Our strategy may also have flaws and may not be successful. For example, we may not be able to anticipate or respond in a timely manner to changing customer demands and preferences for greeting cards. If we misjudge the market, we may significantly sell or overstock unpopular products and be forced to grant significant credits, accept significant returns or write-off a significant amount of inventory, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flow. Conversely, shortages of popular items could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. A few of our customers are material to our business and operations. Net sales to our five largest customers, which include mass merchandisers and chain drug stores, accounted for approximately 39%, 36% and 37% of total revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately 54% of the North American Social Expression Products segment’s revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was attributable to its top five customers, and approximately 42% of the International Social Expression Products segment’s revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was attributable to its top three customers. Net sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries accounted for approximately 14%, 15% and 16% of total revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and net sales to Target Corporation accounted for approximately 13% of total revenue in 2010. There can be no assurance that our large customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities that they have in the past. The loss of sales to one of our large customers could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business and we may not achieve the cost savings and increased revenues anticipated as a result of these acquisitions. In calendar year 2009, we acquired the greeting card company Recycled Paper Greetings, Inc. (now known as Papyrus-Recycled Greetings, Inc.), and the Papyrus brand and associated wholesale division of Schurman Fine Papers (“Schurman”), which supplies Papyrus brand greeting cards primarily to leading specialty, mass, grocery and drug store channels. In addition, we continue to regularly evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen our business. We cannot be sure that we will be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates, acquire candidates on acceptable terms or integrate acquired businesses successfully. Future acquisitions could cause us to take on additional compliance obligations as well as experience dilution 6 Table of Contents and incur debt, contingent liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Integrating our recent acquisitions, as well as future businesses that we may acquire, involves significant challenges. In particular, the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations with differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of these acquired businesses has and will continue to require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from our day-to-day operations. The process of integrating operations may also cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses and the loss of key personnel. Employee uncertainty and distraction during the integration process may also disrupt our business. Our strategy is, in part, predicated on our ability to realize cost savings and to increase revenues through the acquisition of businesses that add to the breadth and depth of our products and services. Achieving these cost savings and revenue increases is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, we may not be able to realize the benefits of anticipated integration of sales forces, asset rationalization, systems integration, and more comprehensive product and service offerings. If Schurman Fine Papers is unable to operate its retail stores successfully, it could have a material adverse effect on us. On April 17, 2009, we sold our Retail Operations segment, including all 341 of our card and gift retail store assets, to Schurman, which now operates stores under the American Greetings, Carlton Cards and Papyrus brands. Although we do not control Schurman, because Schurman is licensing the “Papyrus,” “American Greetings” and “Carlton Cards” names for its retail stores, actions taken by Schurman may be seen by the public as actions taken by us, which, in turn, could adversely affect our reputation or brands. In addition, the failure of Schurman to operate its retail stores profitably could have a material adverse effect on us, our reputation and our brands, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, because, under the terms of the transaction: • we remain subject to certain of the Retail Operations store leases on a contingent basis through our subleasing of stores to Schurman (as described in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report, as of February 28, 2010, Schurman’s aggregate commitments to us under these subleases was approximately $51 million); • we are the predominant supplier of greetings cards and other social expression products to the retail stores operated by Schurman; and • we have provided credit support to Schurman, including up to $24.0 million of guarantees in favor of the lenders under Schurman’s senior revolving credit facility as described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. As a result, if Schurman is unable to operate its retail stores profitably, we may incur significant costs if (1) Schurman is unable to pay for product that it has purchased from us, (2) Schurman is unable to pay rent and other amounts due with respect to the retail store leases that we have subleased to it, or (3) we become obligated under our guarantees of its indebtedness. Accordingly, we may decide in the future to provide Schurman with additional financial or operational support to assist Schurman successfully operate its stores. Providing such support, however, could result in it being determined that we have a “controlling financial interest” in Schurman under the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s standards pertaining to the consolidation of a variable interest entity. For information regarding the consolidation of variable interest entities, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. If it is determined that we have a controlling financial interest in Schurman, we will be required to consolidate Schurman’s operations into our results, which could materially affect our reported results of operations and financial position as we would be required to include a portion of Schurman’s income or losses and assets and liabilities into our financial statements. 7 Table of Contents Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by retail consolidations. With the growing trend toward retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon a reduced number of key retailers whose bargaining strength is growing. We may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retail customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to display space, scan-based trading and other conditions. Increased consolidations in the retail industry could result in other changes that could damage our business, such as a loss of customers, decreases in volume, less favorable contractual terms and the growth of discount chains. In addition, as the bargaining strength of our retail customers grows, we may be required to grant greater credits, discounts, allowances and other incentive considerations to these customers. We may not be able to recover the costs of these incentives if the customer does not purchase a sufficient amount of products during the term of its agreement with us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Bankruptcy of key customers could give rise to an inability to pay us and increase our exposure to losses from bad debts. Many of our largest customers are mass-market retailers. The mass-market retail channel has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors in recent years. In addition, the retail industry in general has experienced significant declines due to the worldwide downturn in the economy and decreasing consumer demand. As a result, retailers have experienced liquidity problems and some have been forced to file for bankruptcy protection. There is a risk that certain of our key customers will not pay us, or that payment may be delayed because of bankruptcy or other factors beyond our control, which could increase our exposure to losses from bad debts and may require us to write-off deferred cost assets. Additionally, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if certain of these mass-market retailers were to cease doing business as a result of bankruptcy, or significantly reduce the number of stores they operate. We rely on foreign sources of production and face a variety of risks associated with doing business in foreign markets. We rely to a significant extent on foreign manufacturers and suppliers for various products we distribute to customers. In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their products from foreign sources. We generally do not have long-term supply contracts and some of our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas. In addition, a portion of our current operations are conducted and located abroad. The success of our sales to, and operations in, foreign markets depends on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including economic conditions in the foreign countries in which we sell our products. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: • political instability, civil unrest and labor shortages; • imposition of new legislation and customs’ regulations relating to imports that may limit the quantity and/or increase the cost of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries in a particular region; • lack of effective product quality control procedures by foreign manufacturers and suppliers; • currency and foreign exchange risks; and • potential delays or disruptions in transportation as well as potential border delays or disruptions. Also, new regulatory initiatives may be implemented that have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and may include antidumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions, which could increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries. Additionally, as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, import/export customs 8 Table of Contents regulations and other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to criminal or monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially and adversely affect our operating results. The financial position and results of operations of our international subsidiaries are initially recorded in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies ordinarily has a negative impact on our reported sales and operating income (and conversely, the weakening of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies has a positive impact). For the year ended February 28, 2010, foreign currency translation unfavorably affected revenues by $30.7 million and favorably affected segment operating income by $3.5 million compared to the year ended February 28, 2009. Certain transactions, particularly in foreign locations, are denominated in other than that location’s local currency. Changes in the exchange rates between the two currencies from the original transaction date to the settlement date will result in a currency transaction gain or loss that directly impacts our reported earnings. For the year ended February 28, 2010, the impact of currency movements on these transactions favorably affected operating income by $4.7 million. The volatility of currency exchange rates may materially and adversely affect our operating results. The greeting card and gift wrap industries are extremely competitive, and our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. We operate in highly competitive industries. There are an estimated 3,000 greeting card publishers in the United States ranging from small, family-run organizations to major corporations. In general, however, the greeting card business is extremely concentrated. We believe that we are one of only two main suppliers offering a full line of social expression products. Our main competitor, Hallmark Cards, Inc., may have substantially greater financial, technical or marketing resources, a greater customer base, stronger name recognition and a lower cost of funds than we do. This competitor may also have longstanding relationships with certain large customers to which it may offer products that we do not provide, putting us at a competitive disadvantage. As a result, this competitor as well as other competitors that may be smaller than us, may be able to: • adapt to changes in customer requirements or consumer preferences more quickly; • take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily; • devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of its products; and • adopt more aggressive pricing policies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in this market or against such competition. If we are unable to introduce new and innovative products that are attractive to our customers and ultimate consumers, or if we are unable to allocate sufficient resources to effectively market and advertise our products to achieve widespread market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively, our sales may be adversely affected, we may be required to take certain financial charges, including goodwill impairments, and our results of operations and financial condition could otherwise be adversely affected. We face intense competition from a range of competitors in the digital photography products and services industries and may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors. The digital photography products and services industries are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future as current competitors improve their offerings and as new participants enter the market or as industry consolidation further develops. Competition may result in pricing pressures, reduced profit margins or our inability to gain market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and 9 Table of Contents results of operations. Webshots and PhotoWorks, our photo sharing and personal publishing businesses, face intense competition from a wide range of companies, including the following: • Online digital photography services companies such as Shutterfly, Kodak EasyShare Gallery (formerly known as Ofoto), Snapfish, which is a service of Hewlett-Packard, Vista Print, and others; • Internet portals and search engines such as Yahoo!, AOL and Google that offer broad-reaching digital photography and related products and services to their large user bases; • Social media companies that host images such as MySpace, Facebook and Hi5; and • Specialized companies in the photo book and stationery business such as Hallmark, Shutterfly, Tiny Prints, Minted, Picaboo and Blurb. Many of our competitors have significantly longer operating histories, larger and broader customer bases, greater brand and name recognition and greater financial, research and development, and distribution resources. Some competitors are able to devote substantially more resources to website and systems development or to investments or partnerships with traditional and online competitors. Well-funded competitors, particularly new entrants, may choose to prioritize growing their market share and brand awareness instead of profitability. Competitors and new entrants in the digital photography products and services industries may develop new products, technologies, or capabilities that could render obsolete or less competitive many of our products, services and content. In addition, because many of these existing and future products, technologies and capabilities are protected by intellectual property laws, from time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights claims against us. We may incur significant costs to defend these claims and we may not be able to create successful or cost-effective alternatives, or otherwise obtain rights to similar product, technologies or capability on a reasonable or timely basis. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could harm our business and prospects. We are subject to a number of restrictive covenants under our borrowing arrangements, which could affect our flexibility to fund ongoing operations, uses of capital and strategic initiatives, and, if we are unable to maintain compliance with such covenants, could lead to significant challenges in meeting our liquidity requirements. The terms of our borrowing arrangements contain a number of restrictive covenants, including customary operating restrictions that limit our ability to engage in such activities as borrowing and making investments, capital expenditures and distributions on our capital stock, and engaging in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales. We are also subject to customary financial covenants, including a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. These covenants restrict the amount of our borrowings, reducing our flexibility to fund ongoing operations and strategic initiatives. These borrowing arrangements are described in more detail in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Item 7 and in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. During fiscal 2011 we anticipate refinancing indebtedness under our senior credit facility, at which time, certain of these covenants may change and, in some instance, become more restrictive than those that are currently in place. Compliance with some of these covenants is based on financial measures derived from our operating results. If economic conditions deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts to our business and operating results, such as through reduced customer demand and inflation. A decline in our business could make us unable to maintain compliance with these financial covenants, in which case we may be restricted in how we manage our business and deploy capital, including by limiting our ability to make acquisitions and dispositions, pay dividends and repurchase our stock. In addition, if we are unable to maintain compliance with our financial covenants or otherwise breach the covenants that we are subject to under our borrowing arrangements, our lenders could demand immediate payment of amounts outstanding and we would need to seek alternate financing sources to pay off such debts and to fund our ongoing operations. Such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, our credit agreement is secured by substantially all of our domestic assets, including the stock of certain of our subsidiaries. If we cannot repay all amounts that we have borrowed under our credit agreement, our lenders could proceed against our assets. 10 Table of Contents We may be unsuccessful in completing the divestiture of the Strawberry Shortcake and Care Bears properties. We have entered into agreements to sell our Strawberry Shortcake and Care Bears properties. These transactions have failed to close as scheduled, and have resulted in three separate legal proceedings involving us and our subsidiary, Those Characters From Cleveland, Inc. For more information regarding the legal proceedings, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” If we are unable to sell these properties, it could limit some of our financial flexibility due to the absence of additional liquidity that would have been available from the proceeds of the transaction. For information regarding the proposed divestiture of these properties, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. Pending litigation could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and cash flows. As described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” we are engaged in several lawsuits which may require significant management time and attention and legal expense, and may result in an unfavorable outcome, which could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and cash flows. Current estimates of loss regarding pending litigation are based on information that is then available to us and may not reflect any particular final outcome. The results of rulings, judgments or settlements of pending litigation may result in financial liability that is materially higher than what management has estimated at this time. We make no assurances that we will not be subject to liability with respect to current or future litigation. We maintain various forms of insurance coverage. However, substantial rulings, judgments or settlements could exceed the amount of insurance coverage, or could be excluded under the terms of an existing insurance policy. We may not realize the full benefit of the material we license from third parties if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if sales revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. An important part of our business involves obtaining licenses to produce products based on various popular brands, celebrities, character properties, design and other licensed material owned by third parties. Such license agreements usually require that we pay an advance and/or provide a minimum royalty guarantee that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we will be able to recoup in profits from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of such amounts that would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may acquire or renew licenses requiring minimum guarantee payments that may result in us paying higher effective royalties, if the overall benefit of obtaining the license outweighs the risk of potentially losing, not renewing or otherwise not obtaining a valuable license. When obtaining a license, we realize there is no guarantee that a particular licensed property will make a successful greeting card or other product in the eye of the ultimate consumer. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful licensed property will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future. In the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain advantageous licenses, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our inability to protect or defend our intellectual property rights could reduce the value of our products and brands. We believe that our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our brands, success and competitive position. We rely on trademark, copyright, trade secrets, and patent laws in the United States and similar laws in other jurisdictions and on confidentiality and other types of agreements with some employees, vendors, consultants and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite these measures, if we are unable to successfully file for, register or otherwise enforce our rights or if these rights are infringed, invalidated, challenged, circumvented, or misappropriated, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Also, we are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property rights claims in the United States or foreign countries, which could limit our ability to use certain intellectual property, products or brands in the future. Defending any such claims, even claims without merit, could be 11 Table of Contents time-consuming, result in costly settlements, litigation or restrictions on our business and damage our reputation. Rapidly changing trends in the children’s entertainment market could adversely affect our business. A portion of our business and results of operations depends upon the appeal of our licensed character properties, which are used to create various toy and entertainment items for children. Consumer preferences, particularly among children, are continuously changing. The children’s entertainment industry experiences significant, sudden and often unpredictable shifts in demand caused by changes in the preferences of children to more “on trend” entertainment properties. In recent years, there have been trends towards shorter life cycles for individual youth entertainment products. Our ability to maintain our current market share and increase our market share in the future depends on our ability to satisfy consumer preferences by enhancing existing entertainment properties and developing new entertainment properties. If we are not able to successfully meet these challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, demand for our collection of entertainment properties could decrease and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may incur significant costs developing entertainment properties that may not generate future revenues at the levels that we anticipated, which could in turn create fluctuations in our reported results based on when those costs are expensed and could otherwise materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations fluctuate on a seasonal basis. The social expression industry is a seasonal business, with sales generally being higher in the second half of our fiscal year due to the concentration of major holidays during that period. Consequently, our overall results of operations in the future may fluctuate substantially based on seasonal demand for our products. Such variations in demand could have a material adverse effect on the timing of cash flow and therefore our ability to meet our obligations with respect to our debt and other financial commitments. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels, since we usually order and manufacture merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new trends are confirmed by customer orders or consumer purchases. We must carry significant amounts of inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period. If we are not successful in selling the inventory during the holiday period, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices, or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all. Increases in raw material and energy costs may materially raise our costs and materially impact our profitability. Paper is a significant expense in the production of our greeting cards. Significant increases in paper prices, which have been volatile in past years, or increased costs of other raw materials or energy, such as fuel, may result in declining margins and operating results if market conditions prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases on our greeting cards and other social expression products. The loss of key members of our senior management and creative teams could adversely affect our business. Our success and continued growth depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our current senior management team as well as upon a number of key members of our creative staff, who have been instrumental in our success thus far, and upon our ability to attract and retain other highly capable and creative individuals. The loss of some of our senior executives or key members of our creative staff, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially and adversely affect us. We seek to compensate our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, stock ownership, bonus plans, or other incentives, but we can make no assurance that these programs will enable us to retain key employees or hire new employees. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to extend or renegotiate our primary collective bargaining contracts with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike, or other work stoppage, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are party to collective bargaining contracts with our labor unions, which represent a significant number of our employees. In particular, approximately 1,300 of our U.S. employees are unionized and are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although we believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work related stoppage, we could incur higher ongoing labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Employee benefit costs constitute a significant element of our annual expenses, and funding these costs could adversely affect our financial condition. Employee benefit costs are a significant element of our cost structure. Certain expenses, particularly postretirement costs under defined benefit pension plans and healthcare costs for employees and retirees, may increase significantly at a rate that is difficult to forecast and may adversely affect our financial results, financial condition or cash flows. In addition, at this point, we are unable to determine the impact that newly enacted federal healthcare legislation could have on our employer-sponsored medical plans. Declines in global capital markets may cause reductions in the value of our pension plan assets. Such circumstances could have an adverse effect on future pension expense and funding requirements. Further information regarding our retirement benefits is presented in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. Various environmental regulations and risks applicable to a manufacturer and/or distributor of consumer products may require us to take actions, which will adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations with respect to chemical usage, air emissions, wastewater and storm water discharges and other releases into the environment as well as the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, including hazardous materials. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, because legal requirements frequently change and are subject to interpretation, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements, which may be significant, or the effect on our operations as these laws and regulations may give rise to claims, uncertainties or possible loss contingencies for future environmental remediation liabilities and costs. We cannot be certain that existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, will not have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The impact of environmental laws and regulations, regulatory enforcement activities, the discovery of unknown conditions, and third party claims for damages to the environment, real property or persons could result in additional liabilities and costs in the future. We may be subject to product liability claims and our products could be subject to voluntary or involuntary recalls and other actions. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations governing product safety including, but not limited to, those regulations enforced by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. A failure to comply with such regulations, or concerns about product safety may lead to a recall of selected products. We have experienced, and in the future may experience, recalls and defects or errors in products after their production and sale to customers. Such recalls and defects or errors could result in the rejection of our products by our retail customers and consumers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs, any of which could harm our business. Individuals could sustain injuries from our products, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from such injuries. Governmental agencies could pursue us and issue civil fines and/or criminal penalties for a failure to comply with product 13 Table of Contents safety regulations. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to obtain adequate liability insurance in the future. Recalls, post-manufacture repairs of our products, product liability claims, absence or cost of insurance and administrative costs associated with recalls could harm our reputation, increase costs or reduce sales. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or failure by us to comply with these regulations could harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property use and ownership, sales and other taxes, fraud, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce as the vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. Those laws that do reference the Internet are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. For example, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, is intended, in part, to limit the liability of eligible online service providers for including (or for listing or linking to third-party websites that include) materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others. Portions of the Communications Decency Act, or CDA, are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. We rely on the protections provided by both the DMCA and CDA in conducting our AG Interactive business. Any changes in these laws or judicial interpretations narrowing their protections will subject us to greater risk of liability and may increase our costs of compliance with these regulations or limit our ability to operate certain lines of business. The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act is intended to impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect user information from minors. In addition, the Protection of Children From Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. The costs of compliance with these regulations may increase in the future as a result of changes in the regulations or the interpretation of them. Further, any failures on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to significant liabilities. Those current and future laws and regulations or unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and results of operations. Information technology infrastructure failures could significantly affect our business. We depend heavily on our information technology (“IT”) infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. Portions of our IT infrastructure are old and difficult to maintain. We could experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, such as a computer virus, a problem with the functioning of an important IT application, or an intentional disruption of our IT systems. In addition, our IT systems could suffer damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, terrorist attacks, acts of war and similar events. The disruptions caused by any such events could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, properly store consumer images, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Any such event could cause us to lose customers or revenue, damage our reputation, and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. We are refreshing our IT systems in stages in an effort to redesign and deploy new processes, organization structures and a common information system over a number of years. Such an implementation carries substantial operations risk, including loss of data or information, unanticipated increases in costs, disruption of operations or business interruption. Further, we may not be successful implementing new systems or any new system may not perform as expected. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents Acts of nature could result in an increase in the cost of raw materials; other catastrophic events, including earthquakes, could interrupt critical functions and otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. Acts of nature could result in an increase in the cost of raw materials or a shortage of raw materials, which could influence the cost of goods supplied to us. Additionally, we have significant operations, including our largest manufacturing facility, near a major earthquake fault line in Arkansas. A catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, tornado, or other natural or man-made disaster, could disrupt our operations and impair production or distribution of our products, damage inventory, interrupt critical functions or otherwise affect our business negatively, harming our results of operations. Members of the Weiss family and related entities, whose interests may differ from those of other shareholders, own a substantial portion of our common shares. Our authorized capital stock consists of Class A common shares and Class B common shares. The economic rights of each class of common shares are identical, but the voting rights differ. Class A common shares are entitled to one vote per share and Class B common shares are entitled to ten votes per share. There is no public trading market for the Class B common shares, which are held by members of the extended family of American Greetings’ founder, officers and directors of American Greetings and their extended family members, family trusts, institutional investors and certain other persons. As of April 26, 2010, Morry Weiss, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Zev Weiss, the Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Weiss, the President and Chief Operating Officer, and Erwin Weiss, the Senior Vice President, Enterprise Resource Planning, together with other members of the Weiss family and certain trusts and foundations established by the Weiss family beneficially owned approximately 93% in the aggregate of our outstanding Class B common shares (approximately 91%, excluding stock options that are presently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of April 26, 2010), which, together with Class A common shares beneficially owned by them, represents approximately 51% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock (approximately 44%, excluding stock options that are presently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of April 26, 2010). Accordingly, these members of the Weiss family, together with the trusts and foundations established by them, would be able to significantly influence the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our Articles of Incorporation or Code of Regulations, and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, and their interests may not be aligned with your interests. The existence of these levels of ownership concentrated in a few persons makes it less likely that any other shareholder will be able to affect our management or strategic direction. These factors may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our management or voting control or its acquisition by a third party. Our charter documents and Ohio law may inhibit a takeover and limit our growth opportunities, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Certain provisions of Ohio law and our charter documents, together or separately, could have the effect of discouraging, or making it more difficult for, a third party to acquire or attempt to acquire control of American Greetings and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common shares. For example, our charter documents establish a classified board of directors, serving staggered three-year terms, allow the removal of directors only for cause, and establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, while shareholders have the right to cumulative voting in the election of directors, Class B common shares have ten votes per share which limits the ability of holders of Class A common shares to elect a director by exercising cumulative voting rights. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 