ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS • Forward-looking statements. This report contains forward-looking statements. The documents incorporated into this report by reference may also contain forward-looking statements. You can identify a forward-looking statement by our use of the words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “may,” “believe,” “objective,” “projection,” “forecast,” “goal,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements include our statements regarding the timing of future events, our anticipated future operations and our anticipated future financial position and cash requirements. We believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable. We do not know whether our expectations will ultimately prove correct. In the section that follows below, in cautionary statements made elsewhere in this report, and in other filings we have made with the Securities and Exchange Commission we list the important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors described below and other factors set forth in or incorporated by reference in this report. These factors and cautionary statements apply to all future forward-looking statements we make. Many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Do not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements or project any future results based on such statements or on present or prior earnings levels. Additional information concerning these, or other factors, which could cause the actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in our other SEC filings. Copies of those filings are available from us and/or the SEC. • Adverse changes in our relationships with NASCAR and other motorsports sanctioning bodies, or their present sanctioning practices could limit our future success. Our success has been, and is expected to remain, dependent on maintaining good working relationships with the organizations that sanction the races we promote at our facilities, particularly NASCAR. NASCAR-sanctioned races conducted at our wholly-owned subsidiaries accounted for approximately 85.8 percent of our total revenues in fiscal 2007. Each NASCAR sanctioning agreement is awarded on an annual basis and NASCAR is not required to continue to enter into, renew or extend sanctioning agreements with us to conduct any event. Any adverse change in the present sanctioning practices (such as the proposal to establish a bid system which was contained in the complaint in the Kentucky Speedway litigation), could Page 6 Table of Contents adversely impact our operations and revenue. Moreover, although our general growth strategy includes the possible development and/or acquisition of additional motorsports entertainment facilities, we have no assurance that any sanctioning body, including NASCAR, will enter into sanctioning agreements with us to conduct races at any newly developed or acquired motorsports entertainment facilities. Failure to obtain a sanctioning agreement for a major NASCAR event could negatively affect us. Similarly, although NASCAR has in the past approved our requests for realignment of sanctioned events, NASCAR is not obligated to modify its race schedules to allow us to schedule our races more efficiently or profitably. • Delay, postponement or cancellation of major motorsports events because of weather or other factors could adversely affect us. We promote outdoor motorsports entertainment events. Weather conditions affect sales of, among other things, tickets, food, drinks and merchandise at these events. Poor weather conditions prior to an event, or even the forecast of poor weather conditions, could have a negative impact on us, particularly for walk-up ticket sales to events which are not sold out in advance. If an event scheduled for one of our facilities is delayed or postponed because of weather or other reasons such as, for example, the general postponement of all major sporting events in the United States following the September 11, 2001 terrorism attacks, we could incur increased expenses associated with conducting the rescheduled event, as well as possible decreased revenues from tickets, food, drinks and merchandise at the rescheduled event. If such an event is cancelled, we would incur the expenses associated with preparing to conduct the event as well as losing the revenues, including any live broadcast revenues, associated with the event, to the extent such losses were not covered by insurance. If a cancelled event is part of the NASCAR Sprint Cup, NASCAR Nationwide or NASCAR Craftsman Truck series, in the year of cancellation we could experience a reduction in the amount of money we expect to receive from television revenues for all of our NASCAR-sanctioned events in the series that experienced the cancellation. This would occur if, as a result of the cancellation, and without regard to whether the cancelled event was scheduled for one of our facilities, NASCAR experienced a reduction in television revenues greater than the amount scheduled to be paid to the promoter of the cancelled event. • Changes, declines and delays in consumer and corporate spending could adversely affect us. Our financial results depend significantly upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer and corporate spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income and corporate budgets such as: • employment; • business conditions; • interest rates; and • taxation rates. These factors can impact both attendance at our events and advertising and marketing dollars available from the motorsports industry’s principal sponsors and potential sponsors. Economic and other lifestyle conditions adversely affect consumer and corporate spending thereby impacting our growth, revenue and profitability. General economic conditions were significantly and negatively impacted by the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the war in Iraq and could be similarly affected by any future attacks, by a terrorist attack at any mass gathering or fear of such attacks, or by other acts or prospects of war. Any future attacks or wars or related threats could also increase our expenses related to insurance, security or other related matters. A weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could adversely affect our financial results. Finally, our financial results could also be adversely Page 7 Table of Contents impacted by a widespread outbreak of a severe epidemiological crisis. • France Family Group control of NASCAR creates conflicts of interest. Members of the France Family Group own and control NASCAR. James C. France, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Lesa France Kennedy, our President and one of our directors, are both members of the France Family Group in addition to holding positions with NASCAR. Each of them, as well as our general counsel, spends part of his or her time on NASCAR’s business. Because of these relationships, even though all related party transactions are approved by our Audit Committee, certain potential conflicts of interest between us and NASCAR exist with respect to, among other things: • the terms of any sanctioning agreements that may be awarded to us by NASCAR; • the amount of time the employees mentioned above and certain of our other employees devote to NASCAR’s affairs; and • the amounts charged or paid to NASCAR for office rental, transportation costs, shared executives, administrative expenses and similar items. France Family Group members, together, beneficially own approximately 35.0 percent of our capital stock and over 65.0 percent of the combined voting power of both classes of our common stock. Historically members of the France Family Group have voted their shares of common stock in the same manner. Accordingly, they can (without the approval of our other shareholders) elect our entire Board of Directors and determine the outcome of various matters submitted to shareholders for approval, including fundamental corporate transactions and have done so in the past. If holders of class B common stock other than the France Family Group elect to convert their beneficially owned shares of class B common stock into shares of class A common stock and members of the France Family Group do not convert their shares, the relative voting power of the France Family Group will increase. Voting control by the France Family Group may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us, including transactions in which the holders of class A common stock might receive a premium for their shares over prevailing market prices. • Our success depends on the availability and performance of key personnel Our continued success depends upon the availability and performance of our senior management team which possesses unique and extensive industry knowledge and experience. Our inability to retain and attract key employees in the future, could have a negative effect on our operations and business plans. • The IRS is currently performing a periodic examination of certain of our federal income tax returns that could result in a material negative impact on cash flow The Internal Revenue Service (the “Service”) is currently performing a periodic examination of our federal income tax returns for the years ended November 30, 1999 through November 30, 2005 and is challenging the tax depreciation treatment for a significant portion of our motorsports entertainment facility assets. In accordance with SFAS No. 109 “Accounting for Income Taxes” we have accrued a deferred tax liability based on the differences between our financial reporting and tax bases of such assets and have recorded a reserve for additional interest that may be due., An adverse resolution of these matters could result in a material negative impact on cash flow, including payment of taxes from amounts currently on deposit with the Service. Page 8 Table of Contents • Future impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets or long-lived assets by us or our equity investments and joint ventures could adversely affect our financial results Our consolidated balance sheets include significant amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets and long-lived assets which could be subject to impairment. • In fiscal 2006, we recorded a non-cash before-tax charge of approximately $84.7 million as an impairment of long-lived assets due to our decision to discontinue pursuit of a speedway development on Staten Island. • In fiscal 2007, we recorded a before-tax charge of approximately $13.1 million as an impairment of long-lived assets due to our decisions to discontinue pursuit of a speedway development in Kitsap County, Washington, costs associated with the fill removal process at our Staten Island property and impairment charges relating to certain other long-lived assets. As of November 30, 2007, goodwill and other intangible assets and property and equipment accounts for approximately $1,601.0 million, or 80.8 percent of our total assets. We account for our goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” and for our long-lived assets in accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” Both SFAS No. 142 and No. 144 require testing goodwill and other intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment based on assumptions regarding our future business outlook. While we continue to review and analyze many factors that can impact our business prospects in the future, our analyses are subjective and are based on conditions existing at and trends leading up to the time the assumptions are made. Actual results could differ materially from these assumptions. Our judgments with regard to our future business prospects could impact whether or not an impairment is deemed to have occurred, as well as the timing of the recognition of such an impairment charge. If future testing for impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets or long-lived assets results in a reduction in their carrying value, we will be required to take the amount of the reduction in such goodwill and other intangible assets or long-lived assets as a non-cash charge against operating income, which would also reduce shareholders’ equity. In addition, our growth strategy includes investing in certain joint venture opportunities. In these equity investments we exert significant influence on the investee but do not have effective control over the investee, which adds an additional element of risk that can adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Our equity investments at November 30, 2007, totaled 76.8 million, consisting primarily of our 50/50 joint venture, SMISC operating as Motorsports Authentics. Motorsports Authentics consolidated balance sheets include significant amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets and long-lived assets. In fiscal 2007, Equity in Net Loss From Equity Investments includes a net loss of $57.0 million, or $1.04 per diluted share, representing our portion of the results from our 50 percent indirect interest in Motorsports Authentics which is comprised of a loss from operations, that included the write-down of certain inventory and related assets and an impairment of goodwill, certain intangibles and other long-lived assets. Our portion of the Motorsports Authentics net loss from operations for fiscal 2006 included in Equity in Net Loss From Equity Investments was $3.3 million, or $0.05 per diluted share. Page 9 Table of Contents • Personal injuries to spectators and participants could adversely affect financial results. Motorsports can be dangerous to participants and spectators. We maintain insurance policies that provide coverage within limits that we believe should generally be sufficient to protect us from a large financial loss due to liability for personal injuries sustained by persons on our property in the ordinary course of our business. There can be no assurance, however, that the insurance will be adequate or available at all times and in all circumstances. Our financial condition and results of operations could be affected negatively to the extent claims and expenses in connection with these injuries are greater than insurance recoveries or if insurance coverage for these exposures becomes unavailable or prohibitively expensive. In addition, sanctioning bodies could impose more stringent rules and regulations for safety, security and operational activities. Such regulations include, for example, the installation of new retaining walls at our facilities, which have increased our capital expenditures, and increased security procedures which have increased our operational expenses. • We operate in a highly competitive environment As an entertainment company, our racing events face competition from other spectator-oriented sporting events and other leisure, entertainment and recreational activities, including professional football, basketball, hockey and baseball. As a result, our revenues are affected by the general popularity of motorsports, the availability of alternative forms of recreation and changing consumer preferences. Our racing events also compete with other racing events sanctioned by various racing bodies such as NASCAR, IRL, USAC, NHRA, International Motorsports Association, SCCA, Grand American, ARCA and others. Many sports and entertainment businesses have resources that exceed ours. • We are subject to changing governmental regulations and legal standards that could increase our expenses With the exception of issues concerning the fill operations on Staten Island raised by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (“DEC”) and the New York City Department of Sanitation (“DOS”), including the presence of, and need to remediate, fill containing constituents above permitted regulatory thresholds, we believe that our operations are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local environmental, land use and other laws and regulations. In May 2007, we entered into a Consent Order with DEC to resolve several issues surrounding these fill operations and the acceptance of fill at the site that did not comply with certain regulatory standards. The Consent Order requires us to remove non-compliant fill pursuant to the comprehensive fill removal plan. We commenced fill removal activities in September 2007, and we expect the fill removal process activities to be complete in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The Consent Order also required us to pay a penalty to DEC of $562,500, half of which was paid in May 2007 and the other half of which has been suspended so long as we comply with the terms of the Consent Order. A small portion of our property in Daytona Beach, near our corporate headquarter is in the process of having certain constituents above permitted levels in Florida remediated by a prior occupant of the property who has admitted causing the contamination and has assumed full liability for the remediation of the site. On January 25, 2008 we learned that during certain tests requested by the Florida DEP, in connection with this remediation four monitoring wells appear to have constituents above permitted levels indicative of a gasoline spill. These gasoline constituents appear at this time to be unrelated to the other remediation activities. Additional tests specifically designed to look for these materials are being performed in order to provide confirmation of the results reported to us. We face the risks that these chemicals may actually be present, that the redevelopment of the site into the Daytona Live! Project could be delayed during the cleanup, and that we may have to bear, at least temporarily, the cost of the cleanup. Considering that we have just become aware of this issue, we are unable at the present time to determine if we have a loss, an estimate of the range of this possible loss and whether or not the range of possible loss is of a material nature. Page 10 Table of Contents If it is determined that damage to persons or property or contamination of the environment has been caused or exacerbated by the operation or conduct of our business or by pollutants, substances, contaminants or wastes used, generated or disposed of by us, or if pollutants, substances, contaminants or wastes are found on property currently or previously owned or operated by us, we may be held liable for such damage and may be required to pay the cost of investigation and/or remediation of such contamination or any related damage. The amount of such liability as to which we are self-insured could be material. State and local laws relating to the protection of the environment also can include noise abatement laws that may be applicable to our racing events. Our existing facilities continue to be used in situations where the standards for new facilities to comply with certain laws and regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, are constantly evolving. Changes in the provisions or application of federal, state or local environmental, land use or other laws, regulations or requirements to our facilities or operations, or the discovery of previously unknown conditions, also could require us to make additional material expenditures to remediate or attain compliance. Regulations governing the use and development of real estate may prevent us from acquiring or developing prime locations for motorsports entertainment facilities, substantially delay or complicate the process of improving existing facilities, and/or increase the costs of any of such activities. • Our quarterly results are subject to seasonality and variability We derive most of our income from a limited number of NASCAR-sanctioned races. As a result, our business has been, and is expected to remain, highly seasonal based on the timing of major racing events. For example, one of our NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races is traditionally held on the Sunday preceding Labor Day. Accordingly, the revenues and expenses for that race and/or the related supporting events may be recognized in either the fiscal quarter ending August 31 or the fiscal quarter ending November 30. Future schedule changes as determined by NASCAR or other sanctioning bodies, as well as the acquisition of additional, or divestiture of existing, motorsports entertainment facilities could impact the timing of our major events in comparison to prior or future periods. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None Page 11 Table of Contents 