Risk Factors We are subject to a variety of possible risks that could adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or financial condition. Some of these risks relate to the industry in which we operate, while others are more specific to us. The following factors set out potential risks we have identified that could adversely affect us. See also Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure. • We have numerous material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have identified numerous material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2005. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Item 8, Management’s Assessment on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, of our Form 10-K. Each of our material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform extensive additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Given the extensive material weaknesses identified, even with this additional work there is a risk of errors not being prevented or detected, which could result in further restatements. 5 Table of Contents • We have extensive work remaining to remedy the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Because of our decentralized structure and our many disparate accounting systems of varying quality and sophistication, we have extensive work remaining to remedy our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. We are in the process of developing a work plan for remedying all of the identified material weaknesses, and this work will extend beyond 2006. There can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be completed or when the material weaknesses will be remedied. There will also continue to be a serious risk that we will be unable to file future periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner, that a default could result under the indentures governing our debt securities or under our three-year revolving credit agreement (the “Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility”) or credit facilities of our subsidiaries and that our future financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. • We face substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result of the extent of the deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, we incurred significant professional fees and other expenses in 2005 to prepare our consolidated financial statements and to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Until our remediation is completed, we will continue to incur the expenses and management burdens associated with the manual procedures and additional resources required to prepare our consolidated financial statements. The cost of this work will continue to be significant in 2006 and beyond. • We have restated our financial statements. We may continue to suffer adverse effects from the restatement of previously issued financial statements that we presented in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, as amended (the “2004 Form 10-K”). In the 2004 Form 10-K, we restated our previously reported financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000, and for the first three quarters of 2004 and all four quarters of 2003 (the “Prior Restatement”). In this report, we have restated the financial data for the first three quarters of 2005. As a result of these matters, we have recorded liabilities for vendor discounts and other obligations that will necessitate cash settlement that may negatively impact our cash flow in future years. We may also become subject to fines or other penalties or damages in our ongoing SEC investigation or new regulatory actions or civil litigation. Any of these matters may also contribute to further ratings downgrades, negative publicity and difficulties in attracting and retaining key clients, employees and management personnel. • Ongoing SEC investigations regarding our accounting restatements could adversely affect us. The SEC opened a formal investigation in response to the restatement we first announced in August 2002 and, as previously disclosed, the SEC staff’s investigation has expanded to encompass our Prior Restatement. In particular, since we filed our 2004 Form 10-K, we have received subpoenas from the SEC relating to matters addressed in our Prior Restatement. We continue to cooperate with the investigation. We expect that the investigation will result in monetary liability, but because the investigation is ongoing, in particular with respect to the Prior Restatement, we cannot reasonably estimate either the timing of a resolution or the amount. Accordingly, we have not yet established any accounting provision relating to these matters. Potential adverse developments in connection with the investigation, including any expansion of the scope of the investigation, could also negatively impact us and could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from our ordinary business operations. • We operate in a highly competitive industry. The marketing communications business is highly competitive. Our agencies and media services must compete with other agencies, and with other providers of creative or media services, in order to maintain existing client relationships and to win new clients. The client’s perception of the quality of an agency’s creative work, our reputation and the agencies’ reputations are important factors in determining our 6 Table of Contents competitive position. An agency’s ability to serve clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad geographic basis is also an important competitive consideration. On the other hand, because an agency’s principal asset is its people, freedom of entry into the business is almost unlimited and a small agency is, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s account from a much larger competitor. Many companies put their advertising and marketing communications business up for competitive review from time to time. We have won and lost client accounts in the past as a result of such periodic competitions. Our ability to attract new clients and to retain existing clients may also, in some cases, be limited by clients’ policies or perceptions about conflicts of interest. These policies can, in some cases, prevent one agency, or even different agencies under our ownership, from performing similar services for competing products or companies. In addition, issues arising from our deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could divert the efforts and attention of our management from our ordinary business operations or have an adverse impact on clients’ perceptions of us and adversely affect our overall ability to compete for new and existing business. • We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Employees, including creative, research, media, account and practice group specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among our most important assets. An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Our ability to do so is influenced by a variety of factors, including the compensation we award, and could be adversely affected by our recent financial performance and financial reporting difficulties. • As a marketing services company, our revenues are highly susceptible to declines as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. Economic downturns often more severely affect the marketing services industry than other industries. In the past, some clients have responded to weak economic performance in any region where we operate by reducing their marketing budgets, which are generally discretionary in nature and easier to reduce in the short-term than other expenses related to operations. This pattern may recur in the future. • Our liquidity profile has recently been adversely affected. In recent periods we have experienced operating losses that have adversely affected our cash flows from operations. We have recorded liabilities and incurred substantial professional fees in connection with the Prior Restatement. It is also possible that we will be required to pay fines or other penalties or damages in connection with the ongoing SEC investigation or future regulatory actions or civil litigation. These items have impacted and will impact our liquidity in future years negatively and could require us to seek new or additional sources of liquidity to fund our working capital needs. There can be no guarantee that we would be able to access any such new sources of new liquidity on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to do so, our liquidity position could be adversely affected. • Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect us. Our long-term debt is currently rated B+ with negative outlook by Standard and Poor’s, Ba1 with negative outlook by Moody’s, and B+ with stable outlook by Fitch. It is possible that our credit ratings will be reduced further. Ratings downgrades or comparatively weak ratings can adversely affect us, because ratings are an important factor influencing our ability to access capital. Our clients and vendors may also consider our credit profile when negotiating contract terms, and if they were to change the terms on which they deal with us, it could have a significant adverse affect on our liquidity. • If some of our clients experience financial distress, their weakened financial position could negatively affect our own financial position and results. We have a large and diverse client base and at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial distress, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. If any client with whom we have a substantial amount of business experiences financial difficulty, it could delay or jeopardize the 7 Table of Contents collection of accounts receivable, may result in significant reductions in services provided by us and may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. For a description of our client base, see Item 1, Business- Clients. • International business risks could adversely affect our operations. International revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues, approximately 45% in 2005. Our international operations are exposed to risks that affect foreign operations of all kinds, including local legislation, monetary devaluation, exchange control restrictions and unstable political conditions. These risks may limit our ability to grow our business and effectively manage our operations in those countries. In addition, because a high level of our revenues and expenses is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Euro and Pound Sterling, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and such currencies may materially affect our financial results. • In 2005 and prior years, we recognized impairment charges and increased our deferred tax valuation allowances, and we may be required to record additional charges in the future related to these matters. We evaluate all of our long-lived assets (including goodwill, other intangible assets and fixed assets), investments and deferred tax assets for possible impairment or realizability at least annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment or lack of realizability. If certain criteria are met, we are required to record an impairment charge or valuation allowance. In the past, we have recorded substantial amounts of goodwill, investment and other impairment charges, and have been required to establish substantial valuation allowances with respect to deferred tax assets and loss carry-forwards. As of December 31, 2005, we have substantial amounts of intangibles, investments and deferred tax assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Future events, including our financial performance and strategic decisions, could cause us to conclude that further impairment indicators exist and that the asset values associated with intangibles, investments and deferred tax assets may have become impaired. Any resulting impairment loss would have an adverse impact on our reported earnings in the period in which the charge is recognized. In connection with the U.S. deferred tax assets, management believes that it is more likely than not that a substantial amount of the deferred tax assets will be realized; a valuation allowance has been established for the remainder. The amount of the deferred tax assets considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if estimates of future U.S. taxable income are lower than anticipated. • We are subject to certain restrictions and must meet certain minimum financial covenants under our Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility. Our Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility contains covenants that limit our operational flexibility and require us to meet specified financial ratios. The Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility does not permit us (i) to make cash acquisitions in excess of $50.0 million until October 2006, or thereafter in excess of $50.0 million until expiration of the agreement in May 2007, subject to increases equal to the net cash proceeds received in the applicable period from any disposition of assets; (ii) to make capital expenditures in excess of $210.0 million annually; (iii) to repurchase or to declare or pay dividends on our capital stock (except for any convertible preferred stock, convertible trust preferred instrument or similar security, which includes our outstanding 5.375% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock and our 5.25% Series B Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock), except that we may repurchase our capital stock in connection with the exercise of options by our employees or with proceeds contemporaneously received from an issue of new shares of our capital stock; and (iv) to incur new debt at our subsidiaries, other than unsecured debt incurred in the ordinary course of business of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. and unsecured debt, which may not exceed $10.0 million in the aggregate, incurred in the ordinary course of business of our U.S. subsidiaries. Under the Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility, we are also subject to financial covenants with respect to our interest coverage ratio, debt to EBITDA ratio and minimum EBITDA. We have in the past been required to seek and successfully have obtained amendments and waivers of the financial covenants under our committed bank facility. There can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with these covenants in future periods. If we do not comply and are unable to obtain the necessary amendments or waivers at that time, we would be unable to borrow or obtain additional letters 8 Table of Contents of credit under the Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility and could choose to terminate the facility and provide a cash deposit in connection with any outstanding letters of credit. The lenders under the Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility would also have the right to terminate the facility, accelerate any outstanding principal and require us to provide a cash deposit in an amount equal to the total amount of outstanding letters of credit. The outstanding amount of letters of credit was $162.4 million as of December 31, 2005. We have not drawn under the Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility over the past two years, and we do not currently expect to draw under it. So long as there are no amounts to be accelerated under the Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility, termination of the facility would not trigger the cross-acceleration provisions of our public debt. Any future impairment charge (excluding valuation allowance charges) could result in a violation of the financial covenants of our Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility, which requires us to maintain minimum levels of consolidated EBITDA (as defined in that facility) and established ratios of debt to consolidated EBITDA and interest coverage ratios. A violation of any of these financial covenants could trigger a default under this facility and adversely affect our liquidity. • We may not be able to meet our performance targets and milestones. From time to time, we communicate to the market certain targets and milestones for our financial and operating performance including, but not limited to, the areas of revenue growth, operating expense reduction and operating margin growth. These targets and milestones are intended to provide metrics against which to evaluate our performance, but they should not be understood as predictions or guidance about our expected performance. Our ability to meet any target or milestone is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and we caution investors against placing undue reliance on them. See “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.” • We are subject to regulations and other governmental scrutiny that could restrict our activities or negatively impact our revenues. Our industry is subject to government regulation and other governmental action, both domestic and foreign. There has been an increasing tendency on the part of advertisers and consumer groups to challenge advertising through legislation, regulation, the courts or otherwise, for example on the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive or injurious to public welfare. Through the years, there has been a continuing expansion of specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures and warning requirements with respect to the advertising for certain products. Representatives within government bodies, both domestic and foreign, continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising, which, if successful, may have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and consequently our revenues. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 