Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to a variety of possible risks that could adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or financial condition. Some of these risks relate to the industry in which we operate, while others are more specific to us. The following factors set out potential risks we have identified that could adversely affect us. See also Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure. • We have numerous material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and extensive work remaining to remediate these weaknesses. We have identified numerous material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2006. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Item 8, Management’s Assessment of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, in this report. Each of our material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement will not be prevented or detected. Given the extensive material weaknesses identified, there is a risk of errors not being prevented or detected, which could require us to restate our financial statements in the future. Any such restatements could result in or contribute to regulatory actions or civil litigation, ratings downgrades, negative publicity or difficulties in attracting or retaining key clients, employees and management personnel. We incurred significant professional fees and other expenses in 2006 to prepare our consolidated financial statements and to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, in particular as a result of the extent of the deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and the extensive additional work and resources required to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. The cost of this work will continue to be significant in 2007 and beyond. Because of our decentralized structure and our many disparate accounting systems of varying quality and sophistication, we have extensive work remaining to remediate our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. We have developed a work plan with the goal of remediating all of the identified material weaknesses by the time we file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007. There can be no assurance, however, as to when the remediation plan will be fully implemented and all the material weaknesses remediated. Until our remediation is completed, there will also continue to be a risk that we will be unable to file future periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner and that a default could result under the indentures governing our debt securities, under any of our credit facilities or under any credit facilities of our subsidiaries. • Ongoing SEC investigations regarding our accounting restatements could adversely affect us. The SEC opened a formal investigation in response to the restatement we first announced in August 2002 and the investigation expanded to encompass the restatement we presented in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 that we filed in September 2005 (the “2005 Restatement”). In particular, since we filed our 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have received subpoenas from the SEC relating to matters addressed in our 2005 Restatement. We have also responded to inquiries from the SEC staff concerning the restatement of the first three quarters of 2005 that we made in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We continue to cooperate with the investigation. We expect that the investigation will result in monetary liability, but because the investigation is ongoing, in particular with respect to the 2005 Restatement, we cannot reasonably estimate the amount, range of amounts or timing of a resolution. Accordingly, we have not yet established any accounting provision relating to these matters. Adverse developments in connection with the investigation, including any expansion of the scope of the investigation, could also negatively impact us and could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from our ordinary business operations. • We operate in a highly competitive industry. 7 Table of Contents The marketing communications business is highly competitive. Our agencies and media services must compete with other agencies, and with other providers of creative or media services, in order to maintain existing client relationships and to win new clients. The client’s perception of the quality of an agency’s creative work, our reputation and the agencies’ reputations are important factors in determining our competitive position. An agency’s ability to serve clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad geographic basis is also an important competitive consideration. On the other hand, because an agency’s principal asset is its people, freedom of entry into the business is almost unlimited and a small agency is, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s account from a much larger competitor. Many companies put their advertising and marketing communications business up for competitive review from time to time. We have won and lost client accounts in the past as a result of such periodic competitions. Our ability to attract new clients and to retain existing clients may also, in some cases, be limited by clients’ policies or perceptions about conflicts of interest. These policies can, in some cases, prevent one agency, or even different agencies under our ownership, from performing similar services for competing products or companies. • We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Employees, including creative, research, media, account and practice group specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among our most important assets. An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Our ability to do so is influenced by a variety of factors, including the compensation we award, and could be adversely affected by our recent financial or market performance. • As a marketing services company, our revenues are highly susceptible to declines as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. Economic downturns often more severely affect the marketing services industry than other industries. In the past, some clients have responded to weak economic performance in any region where we operate by reducing their marketing budgets, which are generally discretionary in nature and easier to reduce in the short-term than other expenses related to operations. This pattern may recur in the future. • Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect us. Our long-term debt is currently rated Ba3 with negative outlook by Moody’s, B CreditWatch negative by Standard and Poor’s, and B with negative outlook by Fitch. It is possible that our credit ratings will be reduced further. Ratings downgrades or comparatively weak ratings can adversely affect us, because ratings are an important factor influencing our ability to access capital. Our clients and vendors may also consider our credit profile when negotiating contract terms, and if they were to change the terms on which they deal with us, it could have a significant adverse effect on our liquidity. • Our liquidity profile could be adversely affected. In previous years, we have experienced operating losses and weak operating cash flow. Until our margins consistently improve in connection with our turnaround, cash generation from operations could be challenged in certain periods. This could have a negative impact on our liquidity in future years and could lead us to seek new or additional sources of liquidity to fund our working capital needs. There can be no guarantee that we would be able to access any new sources of liquidity on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we were unable to do so, our liquidity position could be adversely affected. • If some of our clients experience financial distress, their weakened financial position could negatively affect our own financial position and results. We have a large and diverse client base, and at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial distress, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. If any client with whom we have a substantial amount of business experiences financial difficulty, it could delay or jeopardize the collection of accounts receivable, may result in significant reductions in services provided by us and may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. For a description of our client base, see Item 1, Business — Clients. • International business risks could adversely affect our operations. 8 Table of Contents International revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues, approximately 44% in 2006. Our international operations are exposed to risks that affect foreign operations of all kinds, including local legislation, monetary devaluation, exchange control restrictions and unstable political conditions. These risks may limit our ability to grow our business and effectively manage our operations in those countries. In addition, because a significant portion of our business is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, such as the Euro, Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Brazilian Real, Japanese Yen and South African Rand, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and such currencies may materially affect our financial results. • In 2006 and prior years, we recognized impairment charges and increased our deferred tax valuation allowances, and we may be required to record additional charges in the future related to these matters. We evaluate all of our long-lived assets (including goodwill, other intangible assets and fixed assets), investments and deferred tax assets for possible impairment or realizability at least annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment or lack of realizability. If certain criteria are met, we are required to record an impairment charge or valuation allowance. In the past, we have recorded substantial amounts of goodwill, investment and other impairment charges, and have been required to establish substantial valuation allowances with respect to deferred tax assets and loss carry-forwards. As of December 31, 2006, we have substantial amounts of long-lived assets, investments and deferred tax assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Future events, including our financial performance and strategic decisions, could cause us to conclude that further impairment indicators exist and that the asset values associated with long-lived assets, investments and deferred tax assets may have become impaired. Any resulting impairment loss would have an adverse impact on our reported earnings in the period in which the charge is recognized. • We may not be able to meet our performance targets and milestones. From time to time, we communicate to the market certain targets and milestones for our financial and operating performance including, but not limited to, the areas of revenue growth, operating expense reduction and operating margin growth. These targets and milestones are intended to provide metrics against which to evaluate our performance, but they should not be understood as predictions or guidance about our expected performance. Our ability to meet any target or milestone is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and we caution investors against placing undue reliance on them. See “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.” • We are subject to regulations and other governmental scrutiny that could restrict our activities or negatively impact our revenues. Our industry is subject to government regulation and other governmental action, both domestic and foreign. There has been an increasing tendency on the part of advertisers and consumer groups to challenge advertising through legislation, regulation, the courts or otherwise, for example on the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive or injurious to public welfare. Through the years, there has been a continuing expansion of specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures and warning requirements with respect to the advertising for certain products. Representatives within government bodies, both domestic and foreign, continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising, which, if successful, may have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and consequently our revenues. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 