ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results may differ materially from the results described or incorporated by reference in this report due to the risks and uncertainties related to our business and our industry, including those discussed below. In addition, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied by forward-looking statements in this report. We refer you to our “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” on pages I-10 and I-11 of this report, which identifies forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risk and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Associated with Product Pricing and Demand Government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement, including growing cost-containment initiatives, may negatively impact our net revenue. Sales of our products both inside and outside the United States depend significantly on payments from government healthcare authorities. These government entities increasingly employ cost-containment programs, including price controls and restrictions on reimbursement, to limit the amounts they pay for our products, which constrain our net revenue. The U.S. government, state legislatures, and foreign governments have shown significant interest in pursuing additional price controls and restrictions on access to drugs. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures in new jurisdictions, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit our net revenue. Our net revenue will continue to be impacted by pricing and reimbursement decisions made by global government entities and there can be no assurance that these entities will not adopt increasingly restrictive policies. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 included a prescription drug benefit for individuals eligible for Medicare. This benefit first went into effect on January 1, 2006. Although the prescription drug benefit had a modest beneficial impact on our results in 2006, it is difficult to predict the impact that this benefit will have on pharmaceutical companies over the long term. While the number of Medicare beneficiaries will grow as the U.S. population ages, we expect the enhanced purchasing power of, and increased shift of insurance risk to, the entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries will result in further pricing pressure, which could negatively impact our net revenues. Additionally, the cost-sharing structure of the benefit could result in gaps in coverage for some products (the so-called “doughnut-hole”), such as ENBREL, which could negatively impact sales of these products in the United States. In addition, the U.S. Congress is considering legislation that would amend the Medicare law and direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate drug prices in the new Medicare prescription drug coverage program. If this proposed legislation is enacted into law, this government-driven approach could lead to price controls and have a negative impact on our net revenue. Payment for our products by managed care organizations and private insurers is becoming more restrictive, which may constrain our net revenues. Managed care organizations and other private insurers frequently adopt their own payment or reimbursement reductions, and consolidation among managed care organizations has increased the negotiating power of these entities. Private third party payors, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for inclusion in the formulary. In addition, private health insurance companies and employers that self-insure have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products, requiring prior authorization to use a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring that patients start with a generic product before switching to a branded product, among other reasons, to encourage beneficiaries to utilize generic products. There can be no assurance that these entities will not adopt increasingly restrictive payment and reimbursement policies, in which case our net revenues could be negatively impacted. More extensive importation of products from other jurisdictions may negatively impact our net revenue. In the United States and abroad, our products are subject to competition from products originating from jurisdictions where government price controls or other market dynamics, including production of counterfeit products, result in lower prices. The ability of U.S. consumers to obtain lower priced imports has grown I-12 significantly in recent years, despite legal restrictions, and may increase in the future. For example, Congress passed legislation that allows U.S. consumers to personally import a 90-day supply of drugs (excluding biologics and controlled substances) from Canada. Any such increase in imports could negatively impact our net revenue. Furthermore, to the extent that legal restrictions on product importation are reduced or eliminated, as is contemplated in various pieces of legislation currently pending in Congress, importation of products would likely increase, further negatively impacting our net revenue. Data generated or analyzed after a product is approved may result in product withdrawal or decrease demand. As a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the FDA may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. The results generated in these Phase IV trials could result in loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling or new or increased concerns about side-effects or efficacy of a product. Post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others, that are not mandated by regulatory agencies, and other emerging data about marketed products such as adverse event reports, may have the same impact. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact both demand for our products and our net revenue due to real or perceived side-effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. For example, our EFFEXOR family of products and other antidepressants have been subject to regulatory review and labeling changes. We believe that these regulatory actions and related publicity have contributed to a slowdown in overall demand for antidepressants, and this scrutiny and resultant slowdown may continue in the future. Furthermore, new data, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups, or organizations involved in various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of our products, recommended dosages of our products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. Such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of our products. For example, our Consumer Healthcare business has been subject to federal and state legislation imposing restrictions on sales of products containing certain ingredients, such as pseudoephedrine. If additional ingredients, such as dextromethorphan, undergo similar scrutiny, this could negatively impact our sales of products containing these ingredients. If alternative or generic pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products are viewed as safer or more cost-effective than our products, our net revenue will be negatively impacted. We face substantial competition from other products produced by pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, including generic alternatives to our products and competing branded products. If doctors, patients, or third party payors prefer these products, or if these products have better safety, efficacy, pricing, or reimbursement characteristics, our net revenue could be negatively impacted. Our industry is characterized by significant technological change. In addition, generic competitors are becoming more aggressive and generic products are an increasing percentage of overall pharmaceutical sales. The introduction of new competitive products or generic alternatives to our products or competing branded products could negatively impact our net revenue. Many of our competitors are conducting research and development activities in indications served by our products and in areas for which we and our collaboration partners are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. Discoveries by others may make our products or product candidates less attractive. Our EFFEXOR family of products competes against another SNRI, several SSRIs, and other antidepressant products. The increasing availability of generic versions of the active ingredient in several SSRIs and other antidepressant products puts competitive pressure on EFFEXOR (immediate release tablets) and EFFEXOR XR (extended release capsules). Pursuant to the settlement agreement we entered into with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Teva) with respect to the U.S. patent litigation pertaining to Teva’s generic version of EFFEXOR XR (extended release capsules), Teva launched generic versions of EFFEXOR (immediate release tablets) in the United States in August 2006 and will be permitted to launch generic versions of EFFEXOR XR (extended release capsules) in the United States beginning on July 1, 2010, subject to earlier launch based on certain specified events. Events that could trigger an earlier U.S. market entry by Teva with generic versions of EFFEXOR XR (extended release capsules) include specified market conditions or developments regarding the applicable Wyeth patents, including the outcome of other generic challenges to these patents. Two litigations concerning such generic challenges are currently pending and a third company recently notified Wyeth that it is challenging these same patents. There can be no assurance that the outcome of these litigations, or the occurrence of specific market conditions, will not trigger generic entry, by Teva or another generic manufacturer, earlier than July 1, 2010. In addition, pursuant to an agreement reached with Teva with respect to a generic version of EFFEXOR XR (extended release capsules) in Canada, Teva was permitted to launch generic versions of EFFEXOR XR (extended release capsules) in Canada in December 2006. We estimate that greater than three-fourths of EFFEXOR (immediate release tablets) prescriptions in the United States have been converted to Teva’s generic versions since the August 2006 launch, and we expect that Teva’s launch of generic versions of EFFEXOR XR (extended release capsules) in Canada in December 2006 will decrease our net sales I-13 significantly in that market. While we have not experienced any significant impact to date, it is possible that Teva’s introduction of a generic version of EFFEXOR (immediate release tablets) in the United States could adversely impact our future U.S. sales of EFFEXOR XR (extended release capsules). See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview – Our Challenging Business Environment” in our 2006 Financial Report. Additionally, generic versions of EFFEXOR (immediate release tablets) and EFFEXOR XR (extended release capsules) have begun to appear in select markets outside the United States. As this trend continues and additional generic SSRIs, SNRIs and other antidepressant products enter markets, additional competitive pressure will occur, and we expect lower sales of, our EFFEXOR family of products in those markets. PROTONIX faces competition from other prescription proton pump inhibitors, including several generic products, and multiple over-the-counter remedies. ENBREL faces competition from multiple alternative therapies depending on the indication and from other potential therapies being developed. In the United States, while ENBREL continues to have a market leading position, it has experienced share loss to competitors. Our conjugated estrogens products, including PREMARIN, PREMPRO and PREMPHASE, may be subject to generic competition, as PREMARIN’s natural composition is not subject to patent protection and we may only rely on trade secret and other non-patent rights to protect against alternative products being introduced. Certain competitors may be conducting research and development activities in competing estrogen and other products targeted for PREMARIN’s approved indications and PREMARIN may be subject to generic competition in the future. In addition, we have a 13-valent pneumococcal vaccine and GlaxoSmithKline plc has a ten-valent pneumococcal vaccine under development that, if approved, would compete with PREVNAR. Generic versions of INDERAL LA, which had not been subject to generic competition for many years, entered the U.S. market in early 2007. As a result, we expect that our net sales of this product in the United States, which totaled approximately $198 million in 2006, will decline substantially. The above examples are illustrative. Many of our products face competition from competitive products claiming better safety and/or efficacy profiles or cost-effectiveness than our products. In addition, we may pursue licensing arrangements, strategic alliances or acquisitions to expand our product pipeline, and we compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for these strategic opportunities. If we are unable to identify or consummate these types of transactions, our business may be negatively impacted. Our biotechnology products, including ENBREL and PREVNAR, may face competition from follow-on biologics. Government regulation may, in the future, allow for approval of follow-on biologics (also referred to as “biosimilars”). While no specific legal pathway for these approvals currently exists in the United States, legislation has recently been introduced in Congress that would establish such a pathway and the FDA recently approved a follow-on biologic (recombinant human growth hormone) that referenced a biotechnology product approved under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. In Europe, regulatory authorities have taken significant steps toward creating such a pathway. The European Commission recently granted marketing authorizations for two follow-on biologics (both recombinant human growth hormone) pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for follow-on biologics, our biotechnology products may become subject to follow-on competition, with the attendant competitive pressure. Expiration or successful challenge of the applicable patent rights would generally trigger this competition, and we expect that we would face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our successful biotechnology products. Risks Associated with Product and Customer Concentration Strong performance from our principal products and our anticipated new product introductions will be necessary to meet our financial goals. Over the next few years, our financial success will depend substantially on the performance of our six product lines that achieved billion or multi-billion dollar revenue status in 2006, EFFEXOR/EFFEXOR XR, ENBREL, PREVNAR, PROTONIX, our Wyeth Nutrition product line and our PREMARIN family of products, particularly our ability to continue to significantly grow our net revenue from ENBREL and PREVNAR. Our ability to achieve strong performances with these and our other principal products, including I-14 ZOSYN/TAZOCIN and TYGACIL, and our ability to achieve our goals for the new products that we anticipate launching over the next few years, will depend on a number of factors, including: • Acceptance by doctors and patients of each product; • Availability of competing treatments that are deemed safer or more efficacious, more convenient to use, or more cost-effective than each product; • Our ability, and the ability of our collaboration partners, to efficiently manufacture sufficient quantities of each product to meet demand and to do so in a cost-efficient manner; • Regulation by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities of each product and our manufacturing operations; • The scope of the labeling approved by regulatory authorities for each product and competitive products; • New data reporting the safety and efficacy of each product and competitive products; • The patent protection applicable to each product and the introduction of any generic competition; • The effectiveness of our sales force; • The extent of coverage, pricing, and level of reimbursement from government agencies and other third party payors of each product; and • The size of the patient population for each product. Because a few large wholesale distributors account for a significant portion of our net revenue, any financial or other difficulties of our wholesale distributors could negatively impact our results of operations. In 2006, our largest wholesale distributor accounted for 14% of our net revenue, and our top three wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 31% of our net revenue. If one of our significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, we may be unable to collect all the amounts that customer owes to us and may be unable to collect any such amounts on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Risks Associated with Legal Liabilities We may be required to pay substantial damages for product liability claims. Like all pharmaceutical companies in the current legal environment, we face potential product liability claims for products we have sold and for products we may sell in the future. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcome, are costly, divert management attention, and may adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products, as well as result in significant damages. We have been sued in the past when patients using our products experience adverse and undesirable health conditions, regardless of any connection between those conditions and our products. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending or future product liability litigation matters and the ultimate outcome of such matters could be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We have taken charges totaling $21,100.0 million in connection with product liability legal actions relating to the diet drugs PONDIMIN and REDUX. While we believe that our current reserve is adequate and represents management’s best estimate, within a range of outcomes, of the aggregate amount required to cover diet drug litigation costs, it is possible that additional reserves may be required in the future. In addition, we have been involved in various other legal proceedings involving allegations of injuries caused by our pharmaceutical products. These include individual lawsuits and putative class actions in state and federal courts in the United States and foreign jurisdictions involving allegations of injuries caused by PREMARIN or PREMPRO, two of our hormone therapy products. As of February 20, 2007, there have been four completed I-15 trials involving allegations of injury caused by PREMARIN or PREMPRO, two of which returned verdicts in our favor and two of which resulted in a compensatory damages award to the plaintiffs. In addition to these trial results, plaintiffs have voluntarily dismissed a number of cases set for trial and we have been granted summary judgment dismissing other cases on the grounds, among others, that the products’ labeling was adequate as a matter of law or that plaintiffs’ warning claims are preempted by the regulation of drug labeling by the FDA. Additional hormone therapy trials are scheduled throughout 2007 and in 2008. Other of our pharmaceutical products, vaccines and over-the-counter products that are involved in product liability litigation include, without limitation, the prior formulations of certain childhood vaccines and of DIMETAPP and ROBITUSSIN, and our EFFEXOR family of products. If the outcomes of any or all of these proceedings are unfavorable to us, it is possible that we may take future charges with respect to these matters, which may be significant. Please refer to Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, Contingencies and Commitments, in our 2006 Financial Report for descriptions of these matters and other significant pending product liability litigation. Adverse outcomes in other legal matters could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our financial condition could be negatively impacted by unfavorable results in other pending litigation matters, including those described in Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, Contingencies and Commitments, in our 2006 Financial Report, or in lawsuits that may be initiated in the future. These matters include intellectual property lawsuits, breach of contract claims, tort claims, and allegations of violations of U.S. and foreign competition and environmental laws, any of which, if adversely decided, could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to comply with the numerous and varied legal and regulatory requirements governing the healthcare industry, we may face substantial fines, other costs, and restrictions on our business activities. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, and other federal and state statutes, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, as well as counterpart laws in foreign jurisdictions. Violations of these regulations and laws may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including substantial fines, as well as, in the United States, possible exclusion from federal and state health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, plaintiffs both in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions are increasingly bringing actions against international pharmaceutical companies for alleged violations of U.S. and foreign laws regarding drug sales and marketing activities. The U.S. government, state governments, and private payors are investigating pricing practices of numerous pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, and many have filed actions alleging that inaccurate reporting of prices has improperly inflated reimbursement rates. A number of these actions have been brought against us. Please see Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, Contingencies and Commitments, in our 2006 Financial Report for a discussion of these investigations and lawsuits. In addition, government agencies have requested documents from us relating to pricing issues. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: • Diversion of management time and attention; • Expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs, and payment of damages; • Limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; • Decreased demand for our products; and • Injury to our reputation. We may be subject to loss of permits and face substantial fines and clean-up costs in connection with our use of hazardous materials, which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. We use certain hazardous materials in connection with our research and manufacturing activities. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, notified of our potential responsibility relating to the generation, I-16 storage, treatment, and disposal of hazardous waste. This may result in loss of permits, fines or penalties, and other adverse governmental or private actions. In addition, we have been advised in the past, and may be advised in the future, that we may be a responsible party for several sites on the National Priority List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as the Superfund. Please read the discussion of significant pending environmental matters in Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, Contingencies and Commitments, in our 2006 Financial Report. Payment of substantial fines, penalties, or environmental remediation costs, or the loss of permits or other authorizations to operate affected facilities, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. Risks Associated with Intellectual Property If our intellectual property rights are challenged or circumvented, competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. If we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. Our currently pending or future patent applications and/or extensions may not result in issued patents or be approved on a timely basis or at all. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, the scope of our patent claims may vary between countries, as individual countries have their own patent laws. For example, some countries only permit the issuance of patents covering methods of making a drug compound, not the chemical compound itself. Our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country’s history of enforcing, or not enforcing, intellectual property rights. Mechanisms exist in much of the world permitting some form of challenge by generic manufacturers to our patents prior to or immediately following the expiration of any regulatory exclusivity. In the United States, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, a generic manufacturer can challenge our patents as soon as four (4) years following FDA approval of a New Drug Application. Patents for PROTONIX and EFFEXOR XR (extended release capsules) are currently subject to, and may be subject in the future to, such challenges in the United States or elsewhere. If a third party successfully challenges patents we rely upon, a court could determine that the patents are invalid or unenforceable or limit the scope of coverage of those patents, potentially reducing our revenue from the related products. In many countries, as a patent owner, we must seek a preliminary injunction or similar legal device to avoid premature generic market entry. In circumstances where a preliminary injunction is issued, but the asserted patents are held invalid or not infringed, we may be liable for the generic company’s lost profits. In some circumstances, where no preliminary injunction is available, we may be limited to an action for damages and perhaps a permanent injunction. In such cases, the generic may enter the market and money damages are likely to be inadequate to compensate us for our losses. When our patent rights expire, previously protected products may become subject to competition from generic versions, which may lower our net revenue. Our patent protection for our products is limited by the applicable terms of our patents. Following expiration of patents covering our products, other entities may be able to obtain approval to manufacture and market generic alternatives, which we expect would result in lower net revenue. For example, our sales of ZOSYN could be significantly affected if the product faces generic competition in the United States and other major markets in the future. In February 2007, the compound patent claiming one of the active ingredients of ZOSYN expired in the United States. Additional process and manufacturing patents extend beyond that expiration. Our new formulation of ZOSYN was approved by the FDA in 2005 and has additional patent protection extending until 2023. While our best estimate is that generic competition for ZOSYN in the United States will not occur until at least late 2007, it is possible that we will face generic competition as early as the 2007 first quarter, depending upon the FDA’s response to the petitions filed by Wyeth and third parties regarding ZOSYN, which are discussed in greater detail in Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, Contingencies and Commitments, in our 2006 Financial Report, and other factors. The compound patent claiming one of the active ingredients in ZOSYN will expire in most major countries outside the United States in the 2007 third quarter. Thus, we may face generic competition in these countries as early as the 2007 third quarter. I-17 We may incur substantial costs in litigation or other proceedings involving intellectual property rights and the results of such litigation or proceedings may reduce our net revenue. A third party may sue us or one of our collaboration partners, alleging infringement of the third party’s patents or other intellectual property rights. Likewise, one of our collaboration partners or we may sue to enforce intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. If we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we or our strategic collaboration partners may be required to: • Pay monetary damages; • Stop commercial activities relating to the affected products; • Obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products; or • Compete in the market with substantially similar products. Risks Associated with Development and Marketing of New Drugs The development of novel pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and biotechnology products involves a lengthy and complex process, and we may be unable to commercialize, or be delayed in commercializing, any of our product candidates currently under development. We have multiple product candidates in development and devote considerable resources to research and development activities, including clinical trials. These activities involve a high degree of risk and take many years. Currently, we have a large number of product candidates in development. Our product candidates in late-stage development include four potential new products with respect to which we filed New Drug Applications (NDAs) with the FDA in 2006: PRISTIQ (for the treatment of vasomotor symptoms), VIVIANT, TORISEL, and bifeprunox. We also filed NDAs in 2005 for PRISTIQ (for the treatment of major depressive disorder) and LYBREL, and we expect to file a number of additional NDAs for potential new products and important new indications for existing products in 2007. Our product development efforts with respect to any product candidate may fail or be delayed, and we may be unable to commercialize it or be delayed in commercializing it, for multiple reasons, including: • Failure of the product candidate in preclinical studies; • Difficulty enrolling patients in clinical trials; • Adverse reactions to the product candidate or indications of other safety concerns; • Insufficient clinical trial data to support the safety and/or effectiveness of the product candidate; • Our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for development or commercialization activities in a timely and cost-efficient manner; and • Our failure to obtain, or our experiencing delays in obtaining, the required regulatory approvals for the product candidate or the facilities in which it is manufactured. Notably, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an existing product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether. Additionally, regulatory authorities in different countries often apply differing standards for the approval of product candidates and/or new indications for existing products, meaning that approval of a particular product candidate or new indication in one country may not be predictive of approval in other countries. The development and commercialization of novel drugs requires significant expenditures with a low probability of success. Successful development and commercialization of new pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and biotechnology products is expensive and inherently uncertain. Conducting late-stage clinical trials is particularly costly. If our clinical trials are not successful, we will not recover our substantial investments in applicable product candidates. Even where our clinical trials are sufficient to obtain product approval, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated product labeling, which could adversely impact the commercial success of the applicable product. The substantial funds we spend developing new products depress near-term profitability with no assurance that the expenditures will generate future profits to offset these costs. I-18 If our strategic alliances are unsuccessful, our operating results will be negatively impacted. Several of our strategic initiatives involve alliances with other companies, including our collaborations with: • Amgen on ENBREL; • Nycomed (previously Altana) on PROTONIX; • Johnson & Johnson under which we supply sirolimus, the active ingredient in RAPAMUNE, to coat the CYPHER stent; • Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. on rhBMP-2; • Solvay Pharmaceuticals on the development and North America promotion of bifeprunox for schizophrenia; • Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on the development of methylnaltrexone for the treatment of opioid-induced side effects and post-operative ileus; • Trubion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on the development of TRU-015 for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and certain other therapies; and • Elan Corporation on the development of amyloid immunotherapies to address Alzheimer’s disease. The success of these and similar arrangements depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the technology and other intellectual property contributed by our partners and their resources, efforts and skills. If these and similar arrangements are unsuccessful, our operating results will be negatively impacted. Disputes and difficulties in such relationships are common, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest. For example, we are currently in litigation with Johnson & Johnson regarding our collaboration with respect to the CYPHER stent. The benefits of these alliances would be reduced or eliminated if strategic partners: • Terminate or breach the agreements; • Fail to devote sufficient financial or other resources to the alliances; or • Suffer negative outcomes in intellectual property disputes. Under many of our strategic alliances we make milestone payments well in advance of commercialization of products, with no assurance that we will ever recoup those payments, in which case our operating results may be negatively impacted. Risks Associated with Manufacturing our Products Manufacturing problems may cause product launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, and unanticipated costs. In order to sell our products, we must be able to produce sufficient quantities. Many of our products are difficult to manufacture, including PREVNAR and ENBREL, and/or are sole sourced from certain manufacturing facilities. Minor deviations in our manufacturing processes could result in unacceptable changes in the products that result in lot failures, which may result in launch delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs, product recalls, product liability, and/or regulatory action. In addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions at our facilities or the facilities of our third party providers, including equipment malfunctions, labor problems, natural disasters, regulatory action, power outages or terrorist activities. These interruptions could result in launch delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs and issues with our agreements under which we supply third parties. We have spent considerable resources constructing and seeking regulatory approvals for new manufacturing facilities. There can be no assurance that these facilities will prove sufficient to meet demand for our products or that we will not have excess capacity at these sites. In addition, building facilities is expensive, and our I-19 ability to recover these costs will depend on increased net revenue from the products produced at the sites, which is uncertain. Our manufacturing operations are subject to extensive government regulation. Regulatory authorities must approve the facilities in which health care products are produced. Any third party we use to manufacture, fill-finish, or package our products also must be licensed by applicable regulatory authorities. As a result, substitute third party providers may not be readily available on a timely basis in the event our or our third party manufacturers’ manufacturing facilities are not approved or are unable to comply with applicable regulations. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing inspections by regulatory authorities that may result in regulatory action. In addition, minor changes in manufacturing processes may require additional regulatory approvals. Either of these situations could cause us to incur significant additional costs and lose revenue. In the event that a regulatory authority objects to practices or conditions at any of our or our third party manufacturer’s manufacturing facilities, such facility could be subject to adverse regulatory actions. These possible regulatory actions could include, among others, warning letters, fines, injunctions, and recalls, which could result in, among other things, a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of the manufacturing facilities; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events, in combination or alone, could disrupt our business and negatively impact our revenues and financial condition. Our Guayama, Puerto Rico manufacturing facility is currently the subject of a Warning Letter from the FDA that raised several specific concerns about manufacturing at the facility. Although it remains our goal to resolve these issues as quickly as possible, we cannot exclude the possibility that these issues will result in further regulatory action or delays in the approval of new products or release of approved products manufactured at the Guayama, Puerto Rico facility. Please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview – Our Challenging Business Environment” in our 2006 Financial Report for further discussion of the Warning Letter. We are also in continued discussions with various regulatory authorities outside the United States regarding manufacturing process issues at certain of our manufacturing facilities. We are unable to predict the outcome of these discussions or the impact the issues will have on the supply of our products manufactured at these facilities. We rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services in connection with the manufacturing of our products and, in some instances, for the manufacture of entire products. Unaffiliated third-party suppliers provide some materials necessary for commercial production of our products, including specialty chemicals and components necessary for manufacture, fill-finish, and packaging, and, in some instances such as in the case of REFACTO, for the manufacture of entire products. For example, we have sole source suppliers for materials used in PREVNAR, ENBREL, BENEFIX, RAPAMUNE, ZOSYN, TYGACIL and oral contraceptives. We may be unable to manufacture our products in a timely manner, or at all, if any of our third-party suppliers cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply us or if the supply agreements are suspended or terminated. Risks Associated with Operations Our international sales and operations are subject to the economic, political, legal, and business environments of the countries in which we do business, and our failure to operate successfully or adapt to changes in these environments could cause our international sales and operations to be limited or disrupted, and the value of our foreign direct investments may be diminished. Our international operations could be limited or disrupted, and the value of our foreign direct investments may be diminished, by any of the following: • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • The imposition of governmental controls; I-20 • Import and export license requirements; • Political instability; • Difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; • Terrorist activities and armed conflicts; • Trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities; • Changes in tax laws and tariffs; • Costs and difficulties in staffing, managing and monitoring international operations; and • Longer payment cycles. We conduct a substantial portion of our business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. While we attempt to hedge certain currency risks, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused foreign currency transaction gains and losses in the past and will likely do so in the future. Likewise past currency fluctuations have at times resulted in foreign currency transaction gains, and there can be no assurance that these gains can be reproduced. The multinational nature of our business subjects us to potential risks that various taxing authorities may challenge the pricing of our cross border arrangements. While we believe that our pricing methodology is in accordance with applicable laws, taxing authorities may disagree and subject us to additional tax, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and our tax liability. For example, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) currently is examining our 1998 through 2001 tax returns, including the pricing of our cross-border arrangements. While we believe that the pricing of these arrangements is appropriate and that our reserves are adequate with respect to such pricing, it is possible that the IRS will propose adjustments in excess of such reserves and that conclusion of the audit will result in adjustments in excess of such reserves. An unfavorable resolution could have a material effect on our results of operations or cash flows in the period in which an adjustment is recorded and in future periods. We believe that an unfavorable resolution would not be material to our financial position; however, each year we record significant tax benefits with respect to our cross-border arrangements, and we cannot exclude the possibility of a resolution that is material to our financial position. We rely on third parties to provide us with services in connection with the administration of our business. We outsource a number of processing and administrative functions to unaffiliated third parties. For example, as part of our Project Springboard initiatives, we entered into a master services agreement with Accenture LLP (Accenture) in July 2006 under which Accenture will provide us with transactional processing and administrative support services over a broad range of areas, including information services, finance and accounting, human resources and procurement functions. Certain transactional processing services have commenced in 2007. There can be no assurance that the transition of these functions to Accenture will be successful or that we will not encounter difficulties during the transition process. Services provided by third parties as a part of outsourcing initiatives could be interrupted as a result of many factors, such as force majeure events or contract disputes, and any failure by these third parties to provide us with these services on a timely basis or at all could result in a disruption of our business. Increases in costs of pension benefits and current and post-retirement medical and other employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. With more than 50,000 employees, our profitability is substantially affected by costs of pension benefits and current and post-retirement medical and other employee health and welfare benefits. These costs can vary substantially as a result of changes in health care costs, volatility in investment returns on pension plan assets, and changes in discount rates used to calculate related liabilities. At least some of these factors may put upward pressure on the cost of providing pensions and medical benefits. We can provide no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and upward pressure may reduce our profitability. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $9,096.7 million of long-term debt. Our indebtedness: • Requires us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service; • Imposes certain restrictions on our business activities; and • May place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. I-21 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports that remain unresolved. I-22 