ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results may differ materially from the results described in this report due to the risks and uncertainties related to our business and our industry, including those discussed below. In addition, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied by forward-looking statements in this report. We refer you to our “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” on page I-13 of this report, which identifies forward-looking statements in this report. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risk and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Associated with Product Pricing and Demand Government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement, including growing cost-containment initiatives, may negatively impact our net revenue. Sales of our products both inside and outside the U.S. depend significantly on payments from government healthcare authorities. These government entities increasingly employ cost-containment programs, including price controls and restrictions on reimbursement, to limit the amounts they pay for our products, which constrain our net revenue. The U.S. government, state legislatures, and foreign governments have shown significant interest in pursuing additional price controls and restrictions on access to drugs. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures in new jurisdictions, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, would further limit our net revenue. Our net revenue will continue to be impacted by pricing and reimbursement decisions made by global government entities and there can be no assurance that these entities will not adopt increasingly restrictive policies. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 included a prescription drug benefit for individuals eligible for Medicare. Because this benefit first went into effect on January 1, 2006, our reported 2005 results do not reflect the impact of this legislation. We expect the enhanced purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries will result in further pricing pressure, which could impact our net revenues. I-15 Payment for our products by managed care organizations and private insurers is becoming more restrictive, which may constrain our net revenues. Managed care organizations and other private insurers frequently adopt their own payment or reimbursement reductions following government reductions and consolidation among managed care organizations has increased the negotiating power of these entities. Private third party payors, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for inclusion in the formulary. In addition, private health insurance companies and employers that self-insure have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products, among other reasons, to encourage beneficiaries to utilize generic products. There can be no assurance that these entities will not adopt increasingly restrictive reimbursement policies, in which case our net revenues would be negatively impacted. More extensive importation of products from other jurisdictions may negatively impact our net revenue. In the U.S. and abroad, our products are subject to competition from products originating from jurisdictions where government price controls or other market dynamics, including production of counterfeit products, result in lower prices. The ability of U.S. consumers to obtain lower priced imports has grown significantly in recent years, despite legal restrictions, and may increase in the future. Any such increase in imports could negatively impact our net revenue. Furthermore, to the extent that legal restrictions on product importation are reduced or eliminated, importation of products would likely increase, further negatively impacting our net revenue. Data generated or analyzed after a product is approved may result in product withdrawal or decrease demand. As a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the FDA may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. The results generated in these Phase IV trials could result in loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling or concerns about side-effects or efficacy of a product. Post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others, that are not mandated by regulatory agencies, and other emerging data about marketed products such as adverse event reports, may have the same impact. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products and our net revenue due to real or perceived side-effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy. For example, our EFFEXOR family of products and other antidepressants have been subject to regulatory review and labeling changes. See Item 1. BUSINESS – REGULATION of this report. We believe that these regulatory actions and related publicity have contributed to a slowdown in overall demand for antidepressants, and this scrutiny and resultant slowdown may continue in the future. Furthermore, new data may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups, or organizations involved in various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of our products, recommended dosages of our products, or the use of related therapies. Such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of our products. I-16 If alternative or generic pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products are viewed as safer or more cost-effective than our products, our net revenue will be negatively impacted. We face substantial competition from other products produced by pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, including generic alternatives to our products and competing branded products. If doctors, patients, or third party payors prefer these products, or if these products have superior safety, efficacy, pricing, or reimbursement characteristics, our net revenue would be negatively impacted. Our industry is characterized by significant technological change. In addition, generic competitors are becoming more aggressive and generic products are an increasing percentage of overall pharmaceutical sales. The introduction of new competitive products or generic alternatives to our products and competing branded products would negatively impact our net revenue. Many of our competitors are conducting research and development activities in indications served by our products and in areas for which we and our collaborators are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. Discoveries by others may make our products or product candidates less attractive. Our EFFEXOR family of products competes against another SNRI, several SSRIs, and other products. The increasing availability of generic versions of the active ingredient in several SSRIs and other antidepressant products puts pressure on the pricing of EFFEXOR and EFFEXOR XR. Pursuant to the settlement agreement we entered into with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Teva) with respect to the U.S. patent litigation pertaining to Teva’s generic version of EFFEXOR XR, Teva will be permitted to launch generic versions of EFFEXOR XR (extended release capsules) and EFFEXOR (immediate release tablets) in the United States under certain licenses effective on certain entry dates. See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company’s 2005 Financial Report to Stockholders – Contingencies and Commitments – Patent Litigation – EFFEXOR Litigation. In addition, agreements with Teva were also reached with respect to a generic version of EFFEXOR XR in Canada. Additional generic entrants (SSRIs, SNRIs and other antidepressant products) will place additional pricing pressure on EFFEXOR and EFFEXOR XR. PROTONIX faces competition from other prescription proton pump inhibitors, including several generic products, and multiple over-the-counter remedies. ENBREL faces competition from multiple alternative therapies depending on the indication. Our conjugated estrogens products, including PREMARIN, PREMPRO and PREMPHASE, may be subject to generic competition, as PREMARIN’s natural composition is not subject to patent protection and we may only rely on trade secret and other non-patent rights to protect against alternative products being introduced. Certain competitors may be conducting research and development activities in competing estrogen and other products targeted for PREMARIN’s approved indications and PREMARIN may be subject to generic competition from either synthetic or natural conjugated estrogens products in the future. These examples are illustrative. Many of our products in some respect face competition from competitive products claiming superior safety and/or efficacy profiles or cost-effectiveness than our products. I-17 Our biotechnology products, including ENBREL and PREVNAR, may face competition from generic biologics. Government regulation may, in the future, allow for approval of so-called follow-on biologics (also referred to as “generic biologics”). Both U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities have articulated the view that such approvals should be allowed, primarily as a way to reduce the cost of biotechnology products. However, no legal pathway for such approvals currently exists in the United States, with a few narrow exceptions, and public reports indicate that FDA is not actively working on the issue at present. In contrast, the European regulatory authorities have taken significant steps toward creating such a pathway and have recently issued a favorable opinion for one such product, a recombinant human growth hormone. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for follow-on biologics, our biotechnology products may become subject to follow-on competition, with the attendant pricing pressure. Expiration or successful challenge of the applicable patent rights would generally trigger this competition, and we expect that we would face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our successful biotechnology products. Risks Associated with Product and Customer Concentration If we fail to maintain or increase sales of our principal products, we will not meet our financial goals. Over the next few years, our financial success will depend substantially on our ability to maintain or increase our net revenue from the following products: EFFEXOR/EFFEXOR XR, PROTONIX, PREVNAR, ENBREL, our nutrition franchise, our PREMARIN family of products and ZOSYN/TAZOCIN. Our ability to maintain or increase sales of these products, and our other products, will depend on a number of factors, including: • Acceptance by doctors and patients of each product; • Availability of competing treatments that are deemed safer or more efficacious, more convenient to use, or more cost-effective than each product; • Our ability, and the ability of our collaborators, to efficiently manufacture sufficient quantities of each product to meet demand and to do so in a cost-efficient manner; • Regulation by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities of each product; • The scope of the labeling approved by regulatory authorities for each product and competitive products; • New data reporting the safety and efficacy of each product and competitive products; • The patent protection applicable to each product; • The effectiveness of our sales force, including our new U.S. primary care sales force model; I-18 • The extent of coverage, pricing, and level of reimbursement from government agencies and other third party payors of each product; and • The size of the patient population for each product. Because a few large wholesale distributors account for a significant portion of our net revenue, any financial or other difficulties of our wholesale distributors could negatively impact our results of operations. Our largest wholesale distributor accounts for over 12% of our net revenue, and our top three wholesale distributors account for approximately 29% of our net revenue. If one of our significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, we may be unable to collect all the amounts that customer owes to us and may be unable to collect any such amounts on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Risks Associated with Legal Liabilities We may be required to pay substantial damages for product liability claims. Like all pharmaceutical companies in the current legal environment, we face potential product liability claims for products we have sold and for products we may sell in the future. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits or their outcome, are costly, divert management attention, and may adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products. We have been sued in the past when patients using our products experience adverse and undesirable health conditions, regardless of any connection between those conditions and our products. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending or future product liability litigation matter, which may lead to a judgment or settlement involving a significant monetary award or restrictions on our operations, and may result in substantial damage to our reputation and could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. We have taken charges totaling $21,100.0 million in connection with product liability legal actions relating to the diet drugs PONDIMIN and REDUX. While we believe that our current reserve is adequate and represents our best estimate, within a range of outcomes, of the aggregate amount required to cover diet drug litigation cost, it is possible that we may take future charges with respect to this litigation, which may be significant. In addition, we have been involved in various legal proceedings involving allegations of injuries caused by our pharmaceutical products, vaccines and over-the-counter products, including, without limitation, the prior formulations of DIMETAPP and ROBITUSSIN, PREMPRO, PREMARIN and EFFEXOR. If the outcomes of any or all of these proceedings are unfavorable to us, it is possible that we may take future charges with respect to these matters, which may be significant. Please refer to Note 14 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements, Contingencies and Commitments, in the Company’s 2005 Financial Report for descriptions of this and other significant pending product liability litigation. I-19 Adverse outcomes in other legal matters could negatively impact our business and financial condition. Our financial position could be negatively impacted by unfavorable results in other pending litigation matters, including those described under Note 14 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements, Contingencies and Commitments, in the Company’s 2005 Financial Report in this report, or in lawsuits that may be initiated in the future. These matters include intellectual property lawsuits, breach of contract claims, tort claims, and allegations of violations of U.S. and foreign competition and environmental laws, any of which, if adversely decided, could negatively impact our business and financial condition. If we fail to comply with numerous and varied legal and regulatory requirements governing the healthcare industry, we may face substantial fines, other costs, and restrictions on our business activities. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, and other federal and state statutes, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, as well as counterpart laws in foreign jurisdictions which, in some cases, are more stringent than those in the United States. Violations of these regulations and laws may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including substantial fines, as well as, in the United States, possible exclusion from federal and state health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, plaintiffs both in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions are increasingly bringing actions against international pharmaceutical companies for alleged violations of U.S. and foreign laws regarding drug sales and marketing activities. The U.S. government, state governments, and private payors are investigating pricing practices of numerous pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, and many have filed actions alleging that inaccurate reporting of prices has improperly inflated reimbursement rates. A number of these actions have been brought against us. Please see Note 14 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements, Contingencies and Commitments, in the Company’s 2005 Financial Report for a discussion of these investigations and lawsuits. In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice has requested documents from us relating to pricing issues. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: • Diversion of management time and attention; • Expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs, and payment of damages; • Limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; • Decreased demand for our products; and • Injury to our reputation. I-20 We may be subject to loss of permits and face substantial fines and clean-up costs in connection with our use of hazardous materials, which could adversely impact our operations. We use certain hazardous materials in connection with our research and manufacturing activities. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, notified of our potential responsibility relating to the generation, storage, treatment, and disposal of hazardous waste. This may result in loss of permits, fines or penalties, and other adverse governmental or private actions. In addition, we have been advised in the past, and may be advised in the future, that we may be a responsible party for several sites on the National Priority List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as the Superfund. Please read the discussion of significant pending environmental matters under Note 14 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements, Contingencies and Commitments, in the Company’s 2005 Financial Report. Payment of substantial fines, penalties, or environmental remediation costs, or the loss of permits or other authorizations to operate affected facilities, could adversely impact our operations. Risks Associated with Intellectual Property If our intellectual property rights are challenged or circumvented, competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. If we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. Our currently pending or future patent applications and/or extensions may not be issued/approved on a timely basis or at all. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, a generic manufacturer can challenge our patents. Patents for PROTONIX, ALTACE and EFFEXOR XR are currently subject to, and may be subject in the future to, such generic challenges. If a third party challenges patents we rely upon, and the third party is successful, a court could determine that the patents are invalid or unenforceable or limit the scope of coverage of those patents, resulting in a potential loss in net revenue. When our patent rights expire, previously protected products may become subject to competition from generic versions, which may lower our net revenue. Our patent protection for our products is limited by the applicable terms of our patents. Following expiration of patents covering our products, other entities may be able to obtain approval to manufacture and market generic alternatives, which we would expect to result in a substantial decrease in the prices at which we are able to sell our products. For example, our patent protection in the United Kingdom for ZOTON expired in December 2005. The United Kingdom had been the principal market for this product. In anticipation of generic competition, wholesalers depleted inventories rather than purchasing additional ZOTON I-21 from us. Accordingly, our net revenue from ZOTON declined substantially in 2005, and we do not expect to generate significant net revenue from this product in the future. Furthermore, as noted above, we may face competition prior to patent expiration if third parties successfully challenge our patents. We may incur substantial costs in litigation or other proceedings involving intellectual property rights and the results of such litigation or proceedings may reduce our net revenue. A third party may sue us or one of our collaborators for infringing the third party’s patents or other intellectual property rights. Likewise, one of our collaborators or we may sue to enforce intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. If we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we or our strategic collaborators may be required to: • Pay monetary damages; • Stop commercial activities relating to the affected products; • Obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products; or • Compete in the market with substantially similar products. For example, parties alleging that our manufacture and sale of ENBREL infringes patent rights of those parties have sued Amgen and us. Risks Associated with Development and Marketing of New Drugs The development of novel pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and biotechnology products involves a lengthy and complex process, and we may be unable to commercialize, or be delayed in commercializing, any of our product candidates currently under development. We have multiple product candidates in development and devote considerable resources to research and development activities, including clinical trials. These activities involve a high degree of risk and take many years. Our product development efforts with respect to any product candidate may fail, and we may be unable to commercialize it, for multiple reasons, including: • Failure of the product candidate in preclinical studies; • Difficulty enrolling patients in clinical trials; • Adverse reactions to the product candidate or indications of other safety concerns; • Insufficient clinical trial data to support the safety and/or effectiveness of the product candidate; • Our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for development or commercialization activities in a timely and cost-efficient manner; and • Our failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals for the product candidate or the facilities in which it is manufactured. I-22 The development and commercialization of novel drugs requires significant expenditures with a low probability of success. Successful development and commercialization of new pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and biotechnology products is expensive. Conducting Phase III clinical trials is particularly costly. If our large-scale clinical trials are not successful, we will not recover our substantial investments in applicable product candidates. Even where our clinical trials are sufficient to obtain product approval, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated product labeling, which could adversely impact the commercial success of the applicable product. The substantial funds we spend developing new products depress near-term profitability with no assurance that the expenditures will generate future profits to offset these costs. If our strategic alliances are unsuccessful, our operating results will be negatively impacted. Several of our strategic initiatives involve alliances with other companies, including our collaborations with: • Amgen on ENBREL; • Altana on PROTONIX; • King Pharmaceuticals on ALTACE; • Johnson & Johnson under which we supply sirolimus, the active ingredient in RAPAMUNE, to coat the CYPHER stent; and • Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. on rhBMP-2. The success of these and similar arrangements is largely dependent on technology and other intellectual property contributed by our strategic partners and the resources, efforts, and skills of our partners. If unsuccessful, our operating results will be negatively impacted. Disputes and difficulties in such relationships are common, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest. The benefits of these alliances would be reduced or eliminated when strategic partners: • Terminate the agreements; • Fail to devote sufficient financial or other resources to the alliances; or • Suffer negative outcomes in intellectual property disputes. Under many of our strategic alliances we make milestone payments well in advance of commercialization of products, with no assurance that we will ever recoup those payments in which case our operating results may be negatively affected. I-23 Risks Associated with Manufacturing our Products Manufacturing problems may cause product launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, and unanticipated costs. In order to sell our products, we must be able to produce sufficient quantities. Many of our products are difficult to manufacture, including PREVNAR and ENBREL. Minor deviations in our manufacturing processes could result in unacceptable changes in the products that result in lot failures, which may result in launch delays, inventory shortages, and unanticipated costs, product recalls, and/or product liability. In addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions at our facilities or the facilities of our third party providers, including equipment malfunctions, labor problems, natural disasters, power outages or terrorist activities. We have spent considerable resources constructing and seeking regulatory approvals for new manufacturing facilities. There can be no assurance that these facilities will prove sufficient to meet demand for our products or that we will not have excess capacity at these sites. In addition, building facilities is expensive, and our ability to recover these costs will depend on increased net revenue from the products produced at the sites, which is uncertain. Our manufacturing operations are subject to extensive government regulation. Regulatory authorities must approve the facilities in which healthcare products are produced. Any third party we use to manufacture, fill-finish, or package our products also must be licensed by applicable regulatory authorities. As a result, substitute third party providers may not be readily available on a timely basis. In addition, facilities are subject to ongoing inspections and minor changes in manufacturing processes may require additional regulatory approvals, either of which could cause us to incur significant additional costs and lose revenue. We are currently in discussions with various European regulatory authorities regarding manufacturing process issues at certain of our manufacturing facilities. We are unable to predict the outcome of these discussions or the impact the issues will have on the supply of our products manufactured at these facilities. While we attempt to manufacture our products in compliance with applicable regulations, failure to do so could lead to product recalls, substantial manufacturing disruptions, and significant fines. We rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services in connection with the manufacturing of our products and, in some instances, for the manufacture of entire products. Unaffiliated third-party suppliers provide some materials necessary for commercial production of our products, including specialty chemicals and components necessary for manufacture, fill-finish, and packaging, and, in some instances such as in the case of REFACTO, for the manufacture of entire products. For example, we have sole source suppliers for materials used in PREVNAR, ENBREL, BENEFIX, RAPAMUNE, ZOSYN, and oral contraceptives. We may be unable to manufacture our products in a timely manner, or at all, if any of our third-party suppliers cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply us or if the supply agreements are suspended or terminated. I-24 Risks Associated with Operations Our international sales and operations are subject to the economic, political, legal, and business environments of the countries in which we do business, and our failure to operate successfully or adapt to changes in these environments could cause our international sales and operations to be limited or disrupted, and the value of our foreign direct investments may be diminished. Our international operations could be limited or disrupted, and the value of our foreign direct investments may be diminished, by any of the following: • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • The imposition of governmental controls; • Import and export license requirements; • Political instability; • Difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; • Terrorist activities and armed conflicts; • Trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities; • Changes in tax laws and tariffs; • Costs and difficulties in staffing, managing and monitoring international operations; and • Longer payment cycles. We conduct a substantial portion of our business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. While we attempt to hedge certain currency risks, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused foreign currency transaction gains and losses in the past and will likely do so in the future. Likewise past currency fluctuations have at times resulted in foreign currency transaction gains, and there can be no assurance that these gains can be reproduced. Increases in costs of pension benefits and current and post-retirement medical and other employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. With more than 49,000 employees, our profitability is substantially affected by costs of pension benefits and current and post-retirement medical and other employee health and welfare benefits. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of increases in healthcare costs, volatility in investment returns on pension plan assets, and changes in discount rates used to calculate related liabilities. At least some of these factors may continue to put upward pressure on the cost of providing pensions and medical benefits. We can provide no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure may reduce our profitability. I-25 Our indebtedness could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $9,231.5 million of long-term debt. Our indebtedness: • Requires us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service; • Imposes certain restrictions on our business activities; and • May place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the Company’s periodic or current reports that (1) the Company believes are material, (2) were issued not less than 180 days before the end of the Company’s 2005 fiscal year, and (3) remain unresolved. 