ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s operations involve various risks that could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends on its common stock, and the market price of its common stock. These risks, among others, include: The Company’s focus on condominium lending and geographic concentration could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Corus has a lending concentration in multi-family properties involving the construction of new condominiums and the conversion of existing apartments into condominium buildings. At December 31, 2006, approximately 95% of the total commercial real estate loan commitments were collateralized by condominium buildings. Additionally, while Corus’ loans are collateralized by properties across the United States, the geographic concentration of commercial real estate loans remains in various metropolitan areas in Florida and California, as well as Las Vegas, New York City, and the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. While the Company believes that its underwriting guidelines are conservative, the occurrence of adverse events or economic deterioration impacting markets or property type categories in which the Company has concentrations may have a more significant adverse effect upon its financial condition than if the loan portfolio were more diverse. The Company’s loan portfolio is subject to construction risk and market risk. The Company’s lending activities are subject to the risk that the construction of the building will not be completed and the risk that the value of the condominium units will decline in value such that the proceeds from sales will potentially be inadequate to pay off the Company’s loan. Although the Company takes steps to limit these risks, weakening economic conditions in the residential real estate sector, which may be caused by, among other things, supply/demand imbalances and higher interest rates, could increase these risks, causing an increase in nonaccrual and otherwise nonperforming loans. An increase in nonaccrual and otherwise nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for credit losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Other market risks include the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events, such as an earthquake, hurricane or act of terrorism, any of which could affect properties securing the loans. Weakening economic conditions in the residential real estate sector may negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Weakening economic conditions in the residential real estate sector may adversely affect the Company’s loan originations, including the likelihood that pending loans which reach the “Applications Received” stage will ultimately close. In 2006, the conversion of apartments to condominiums all but ceased and, as a result, originations of conversion loans dropped dramatically in 2006. Although the origination of construction loans in 2006 increased 24% from the amount of construction loans in 2005, there can be no assurances that the Company will be able to maintain this growth in new construction loans. If the Company is not able to do so, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted. The Company’s Allowance for Credit Losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in the loan portfolio. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. The most critical of these estimates is the level of the Allowance for Credit Losses. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the estimation of the appropriate level of the Allowance for Credit Losses, Corus may sustain credit losses that are greater, perhaps significantly, than the provided allowance. This would in turn most likely require that Corus make significant provision for loan loss charges that would, all else being equal, reduce earnings. 11 Table of Contents The financial services industry is highly competitive. All of the Company’s business activities, including principally commercial real estate lending and deposit gathering, face significant competition. Competitors include other commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, brokerage firms, finance companies, insurance companies and mutual funds. Some of these competitors may have substantially greater resources than the Company and may benefit from greater name recognition. If the Company is unable to compete effectively, the Company could lose income from loans, deposits and other products and services. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Competition depends on a number of factors, including: • interest rates and points charged on loans • interest rates paid on deposits • service charges • banking hours • locations including ATM access and • other service-related products. Although the Company believes it maintains a number of competitive advantages in its largest business, commercial real estate lending, failure to compete successfully could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in market interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. The Company’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowing. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Fluctuations in interest rates may also affect the demand by customers for the Company’s products and services. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. The Company may be unable to attract and retain sufficient cost-effective funding. Virtually all of the Company’s funding comes from traditional deposit products. The recent growth in deposits is the direct result of the Bank’s national marketing of selected deposit accounts to both individuals and businesses at competitive rates. At December 31, 2006, approximately 62% of the Bank’s $8.4 billion in retail deposits (excluding brokered deposits) were sourced from outside of Illinois. By marketing its deposit products nationally, the Bank is able to attract deposits without being limited to competing solely in the very competitive Chicago market. The retention of existing deposits continues to be a focus of the Company. While the results to date have been strong, there are no guarantees that the Bank will be able to continue to attract deposits nor that account retention will remain high over the long term. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s future success depends, in part, on its ability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel. The Company believes that its future success depends, in part, on its ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, including Robert J. Glickman, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, and other senior loan officers. If one or more of the Company’s key employees leaves the Company’s employment, the Company will have to find a replacement with the combination of skills and attributes necessary to execute the Company’s strategy. Because competition for skilled employees is intense, and the process of finding qualified individuals can be lengthy and expensive, the Company believes that the loss of the services of key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is a bank holding company, and its sources of funds are limited. The Company is a bank holding company and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state laws, regulations, and policies. Recently, cash available to cover holding company payments, including dividends to stockholders of the Company, has been largely derived from dividends paid by the Bank to the holding company. However, historically the Company’s primary funding source has been the issuance of a form of long-term debt commonly referred to as “Trust Preferred” securities. The Trust Preferred securities were issued by Corus’ unconsolidated subsidiary trusts, the proceeds of which were used to purchase Debentures from Corus with terms comparable to the Trust Preferred securities. The debt appears on Corus’ financial statements as “Long-Term Debt — Subordinated Debentures.” While the issuance of Trust Preferred securities has been a reliable source of capital in the recent past, there is no assurance that it will be available in the future. (Please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 62 and 64 through 66 of the 2006 Annual Report under the captions “Long-Term Debt – Subordinated Debentures” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources”, respectively, for a more detailed discussion of the these securities.) Importantly, dividends by the Bank to the holding company are subject to various regulatory limitations. Banking regulations require the maintenance of certain capital and net income levels that may limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by the Bank to the parent company. As of December 31, 2006, the aggregate amount legally available to be distributed to the parent company was approximately $258.0 million, assuming that the Bank continues to be classified as ‘‘well capitalized’’ under the regulations of Prompt Corrective Action (Please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 64 through 66 of the 2006 Annual Report under the caption “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a more detailed discussion of Prompt Corrective Action). In addition though, bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit a bank subsidiary from paying dividends or otherwise supplying funds to a bank holding company if the supervising agency determines that such payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Since the Bank was last notified of its well-capitalized classification, management is not aware of any conditions or events that would have changed such classification. As a function of the foregoing, the Company’s ability to pay dividends to shareholders may be restricted. The Company operates in a heavily regulated environment. The banking industry is heavily regulated. The banking business of the Company and the Bank are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the OCC, and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Company’s success depends not only on competitive factors but also on federal and state laws, regulations, and policies affecting banks and bank holding companies. The ultimate effect of any changes to the rules that impact financial institutions cannot be predicted. Regulations may be modified at any time, and there is no assurance that such modifications, if any, will not adversely affect the Company’s business. 13 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and other regulatory bodies periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Corus’ consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how Corus records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Corus could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. Ownership of Corus’ outstanding common shares is concentrated in the Glickman Family Approximately 50% of the Company’s outstanding common shares are owned by the Chief Executive Officer, Robert J. Glickman, and his immediate and extended family (the “Glickman Family”). The Glickman Family’s interest in retaining their investment in the Company may be highly dependent on Robert J. Glickman’s ability to continue his role as Chief Executive Office of the Company. As a result, any change in Robert J. Glickman’s role as Chief Executive Officer of the Company could have a material adverse effect on Corus’ business, financial condition, results of operation and ultimately the market price of Corus’ common stock. In addition, the Glickman Family, acting together, has the ability to significantly influence the election and removal of the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as the outcome of any other matters to be decided by a vote of shareholders. This concentration of ownership could delay, prevent or result in a change in control of the Company, even when a change in control may or may not be perceived by some, as being in the best interests of the Company’s shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 Table of Contents 