ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s operations involve various risks that could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends on its common stock, and the market price of its common stock. These risks, among others, include: The Company’s focus on condominium lending and geographic concentration has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the Company’s operations. Corus has a lending concentration in multi-family properties involving the construction of new condominiums and the conversion of existing apartments into condominium buildings. At December 31, 2007, approximately 95% of the total commercial real estate loan commitments were collateralized by condominium buildings. Additionally, while Corus’ loans are collateralized by properties across the United States, the geographic concentration of commercial real estate loans remains in various metropolitan areas, including Miami, Los Angeles, San Diego, San Francisco, Atlanta, Las Vegas, New York City, the District of Columbia, Chicago, and Phoenix. While the Company believes that its underwriting guidelines are conservative, the occurrence of adverse events or economic deterioration impacting markets or property type categories in which the Company has concentrations has had, and may continue to have, a more significant adverse effect upon its financial condition than if the loan portfolio were more diverse. Moreover, because the Company is focused nearly exclusively on loans involving the condominium market, a decline in residential buyers’ preferences for condominiums will adversely affect the Company and its results of operations. The Company’s loan portfolio is subject to construction risk and market risk. Problems which can arise in the financing of for-sale condominium housing can be broken down into three broad categories: (1) projects where construction is at risk of coming to a halt; (2) projects where there are material cost overruns that are not being covered by borrowers, completion guarantors or sponsors; and (3) projects where construction is complete, but either (a) sales are weak, and/or (b) presale buyers walk away from their contracts. Although the Company takes steps to limit these risks, weakening economic conditions in the residential real estate sector, which may be caused by, among other things, supply/demand imbalances and higher interest rates, could increase these risks, causing an increase in nonaccrual and otherwise nonperforming loans. An increase in nonaccrual and otherwise nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for credit losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Other market risks include the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events, such as an earthquake, hurricane or act of terrorism, any of which could affect properties securing the loans. Weakening economic conditions in the residential real estate sector have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Weakening economic conditions in the residential real estate sector have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the Company’s loan originations, including the likelihood that pending loans which reach the “Applications Received” stage will ultimately close. While the Company ended the year with a reasonable level of condominium construction loans pending, there can be no assurances that the Company will be able convert these into originations. If the Company is not able to do so, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted. 13 Table of Contents If economic conditions in the residential real estate sector deteriorate to the point where a material number of large condominium projects are complete and there are no buyers willing to close on the units at the borrowers’ asking prices, the Company will likely see a material increase in problem loans. This risk includes both a shortage of buyers and an increase in cancelled contracts. The risk of cancelled contracts is particularly important in the Florida market, which is known as a “pre-sale” market. One of the main factors in our underwriting in this market was the existence and the strength of pre-sale contracts. Generally, the sales contracts in Florida required a non-refundable earnest money deposit of 20% of the purchase price. If a condominium buyer does not close on a unit, the buyer must generally forfeit the deposit. Nevertheless, if these “pre-sale” buyers were to cancel contracts at a material rate, the risk related to our construction loan will increase significantly. Tightening lending standards to home purchasers may indirectly adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Corus has a lending concentration in for-sale housing properties involving the construction of new condominiums and the conversion of existing apartments into condominium buildings. Since the Company’s customers are condominium developers who sell units to individuals, the tightening of lending standards to individual home purchasers may result in fewer sales by developers which, in turn, would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The slowdown in the residential real estate sector could lead to foreclosures, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The slowdown in the residential real estate sector has resulted in the Company reporting higher levels of problem loans. There can be no assurances that borrowers or subordinated lenders will agree to support problem loans. If they do not do so, the Company will be required to foreclose. Although we believe that a foreclosure will generally preserve a significant amount of the value of a problem loan, this process could be expensive and could have an adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations. Declining loan balances could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Loan balances result from the complex interplay of originations, funding of construction loans and the paydown of loans from the sales of condominium units. While the Company ended the year with a reasonable level of loans pending, it is difficult to predict the rate at which pending loans will be converted into loan originations. Moreover, it is also difficult to predict both the timing of construction loan funding, the pace of individual condominium sales and the resulting paydowns. As a result, regardless of the Company’s performance in the near term, it is possible that loan balances will decline, which could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s Allowance for Credit Losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in the loan portfolio. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. A critical estimate relates to the level of the Allowance for Credit Losses. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the estimation of the appropriate level of the Allowance for Credit Losses, Corus may sustain credit losses that are greater, perhaps significantly, than the provided allowance. This will in turn most likely require that Corus make significant provision for loan loss charges that will, all else being equal, reduce earnings. 14 Table of Contents The financial services industry is highly competitive. All of the Company’s business activities, including principally commercial real estate lending and deposit gathering, face significant competition. Competitors include other commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, brokerage firms, finance companies, insurance companies and mutual funds. Some of these competitors may have substantially greater resources than the Company and may benefit from greater name recognition. If the Company is unable to compete effectively, the Company could lose income from loans, deposits and other products and services. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Competition depends on a number of factors, including: • interest rates and points/fees charged on loans • interest rates paid on deposits • service charges • banking hours • locations including ATM access and • other service-related products. Although the Company believes it maintains a number of competitive advantages in its largest business, commercial real estate lending, failure to compete successfully could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in market interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. The Company’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowing. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Fluctuations in interest rates may also affect the demand by customers for the Company’s products and services. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. The Company is subject to price risk related to its portfolio of equity investments. Corus is exposed to price risk with its common stock portfolio in financial industry companies. This price risk would impact the net income of Corus, in the form of securities losses, should unrealized losses on individual securities be determined to be “other than temporary.” This price risk would also affect any future gains or losses that may be realized upon the sale of certain equity securities or resulting from mergers/acquisitions of any companies held in the portfolio. The Company may be unable to attract and retain sufficient cost-effective funding. Virtually all of the Company’s funding comes from traditional deposit products. The Bank promotes selected deposit accounts to both individuals and businesses at competitive rates. By marketing its deposit products nationally, the Bank is able to attract deposits without being limited to competing solely in the very competitive Chicago market. The retention of existing deposits continues to be a focus of the Company. While the results to date have been strong, there are no guarantees that the Bank will be able to continue to attract deposits nor that account retention will remain high over the long term. 15 Table of Contents The Company’s future success depends, in part, on its ability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel. The Company believes that its future success depends, in part, on its ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, including Robert J. Glickman, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, and other senior loan officers. If one or more of the Company’s key employees leaves the Company’s employment, the Company will have to find a replacement with the combination of skills and attributes necessary to execute the Company’s strategy. Because competition for skilled employees is intense, and the process of finding qualified individuals can be lengthy and expensive, the Company believes that the loss of the services of key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is a bank holding company, and its sources of funds are limited. The Company is a bank holding company and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state laws, regulations, and policies. Generally, cash available to cover holding company payments, including dividends to stockholders of the Company, has been largely derived from dividends paid by the Bank to the holding company. From 2003 to 2005, the Company’s primary funding source was the issuance of a form of long-term debt commonly referred to as “Trust Preferred” securities. The Trust Preferred securities were issued by Corus’ unconsolidated subsidiary trusts, the proceeds of which were used to purchase Debentures from Corus with terms comparable to the Trust Preferred securities. The debt appears on Corus’ financial statements as “Long-Term Debt — Subordinated Debentures.” While the issuance of Trust Preferred securities has been a reliable source of capital in the recent past, there is no assurance that it will be available in the future. (Please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 82 and 84 of the 2007 Annual Report under the captions “Long-Term Debt – Subordinated Debentures” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources”, respectively, for a more detailed discussion of the these securities.) Importantly, dividends by the Bank to the holding company are subject to various regulatory limitations. Banking regulations require the maintenance of certain capital and net income levels that may limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by the Bank to the parent company. As of December 31, 2007, the aggregate amount legally available to be distributed to the parent company was approximately $175.0 million, assuming that the Bank continues to be classified as ‘‘well capitalized’’ under the regulations of Prompt Corrective Action. In addition though, bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit a bank subsidiary from paying dividends or otherwise supplying funds to a bank holding company if the supervising agency determines that such payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Since the Bank was last notified of its well-capitalized classification, management is not aware of any conditions or events that would have changed such classification. Please refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on page 36 and 84, respectively, of the 2007 Annual Report for a more detailed discussion. As a function of the foregoing, the Company’s ability to pay dividends to shareholders may be restricted. 16 Table of Contents The Company operates in a heavily regulated environment. The banking industry is heavily regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the FDIC’s insurance fund and the banking system as a whole. The Company and the Bank are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, the OCC, and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Company’s business may be impacted not only by competitive factors but also by federal and state laws, regulations, and policies affecting banks and bank holding companies. These statutes, regulations and policies, or the interpretation or implementation of them, may change, and such changes may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, federal banking regulators have broad authority to supervise the banking business of the Company and its subsidiary, including the authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound banking practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, or administrative order. The exercise of such powers by federal banking regulators could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts could create liabilities for the Company. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. In recent years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although the Company has developed policies and procedures intended to result in compliance, any noncompliance could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and other regulatory bodies periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Corus’ consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how Corus records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Corus could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. Income tax regulations are complex and subject to change. The Company is subject to Federal and state income tax regulations. Income tax regulations are often complex and require interpretation. Changes in income tax laws or regulations could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. Ownership of Corus’ outstanding common shares is concentrated in the Glickman Family. Approximately 50% of the Company’s outstanding common shares are owned by the Chief Executive Officer, Robert J. Glickman, and his immediate and extended family (the “Glickman Family”). The Glickman Family’s interest in retaining their investment in the Company may be highly dependent on Robert J. Glickman’s ability to continue his role as Chief Executive Officer of the Company. As a result, any change in Robert J. Glickman’s role as Chief Executive Officer of the Company could have a material adverse effect on Corus’ business, financial condition, results of operation and ultimately the market price of Corus’ common stock. 17 Table of Contents In addition, the Glickman Family, acting together, has the ability to significantly influence the election and removal of the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as the outcome of any other matters to be decided by a vote of shareholders. This concentration of ownership could delay, prevent or result in a change in control of the Company, even when a change in control may or may not be perceived by some, as being in the best interests of the Company’s shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 