ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s operations involve various risks that could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends on its common stock, and the market price of its common stock. These risks, among others, include: The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in market interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. The Company’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowing. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Fluctuations in interest rates may also affect the demand by customers for the Company’s products and services. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. The Company’s Allowance for Credit Losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in the loan portfolio. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. The most critical of these estimates is the level of the Allowance for Credit Losses. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the estimation of the appropriate level of the Allowance for Credit Losses, Corus may sustain credit losses that are greater, perhaps significantly, than the provided allowance. This would in turn most likely require that Corus make significant provision for loan loss charges that would, all else being equal, reduce earnings. The Company’s focus on condominium lending and geographic concentration could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Corus has a lending concentration in multi-family properties involving the construction of new condominiums and the conversion of existing apartments into condominium buildings. At December 31, 2005, approximately 91% of the total commercial real estate loan commitments were collateralized by condominium buildings. Additionally, while Corus’ loans are collateralized by properties across the United States, the geographic concentration of commercial real estate loans remains in various metropolitan areas in Florida and California, New York City, and the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. While the Company believes that its underwriting guidelines are conservative, the occurrence of adverse events or economic deterioration impacting markets or property type categories in which the Company has concentrations may have a more significant adverse effect upon its financial condition than if the loan portfolio were more diverse. 10 Table of Contents The Company may be unable to attract and retain sufficient cost-effective funding. Virtually all of the Company’s funding comes from traditional deposit products. The recent growth in deposits is the direct result of the Bank’s national marketing of selected deposit accounts to both individuals and businesses at market-leading rates. At December 31, 2005, approximately 60% of the Bank’s $6.9 billion in retail deposits (excluding brokered deposits) were sourced from outside of Illinois. By marketing its deposit products nationally, the Bank is able to attract deposits without being limited to competing solely in the very competitive Chicago market. The retention of existing deposits continues to be a major focus of the Company. While the results to date have been encouraging, there are no guarantees that the Bank will be able to continue to attract deposits nor that account retention will remain high over the long term. The Company is a bank holding company, and its sources of funds are limited. The Company is a bank holding company and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state laws, regulations, and policies. Cash available to cover holding company payments, including dividends to stockholders of the Company, has historically been largely derived from dividends paid by the Bank to the holding company. However, more recently the Company’s primary funding source has been the issuance of a form of long-term debt commonly referred to as “Trust Preferred” securities. The Trust Preferred securities were issued by Corus’ unconsolidated subsidiary trusts, the proceeds of which were used to purchase Debentures from Corus with terms comparable to the Trust Preferred securities. The debt appears on Corus’ financial statements as “Long-Term Debt — Subordinated Debentures.” While the issuance of Trust Preferred securities has been a reliable source of capital in the recent past, there is no assurance that it will be available in the future. (Please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 43-71 of the 2005 Annual Report under the captions “Long-Term Debt – Subordinated Debentures” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a more detailed discussion of the these securities.) Importantly, dividends by the Bank to the holding company are subject to various regulatory limitations. At December 31, 2005, the total amount of the Bank’s retained earnings available for dividends without prior regulatory approval and maintaining well-capitalized status was $180.7 million. As a function of the foregoing, the Company’s ability to pay dividends to shareholders may be restricted. The Company operates in a heavily regulated environment. The banking industry is heavily regulated. The banking business of the Company and the Bank are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the OCC, and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s success depends not only on competitive factors but also on federal and state laws, regulations, and policies affecting banks and bank holding companies. The ultimate effect of any changes to the rules that impact financial institutions cannot be predicted. Regulations may be modified at any time, and there is no assurance that such modifications, if any, will not adversely affect the Company’s business. 11 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other regulatory bodies periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Corus’ consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how Corus records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Corus could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. Ownership of Corus’ outstanding common shares is concentrated in the Glickman Family Approximately 50% of the Company’s outstanding common shares are owned by the Chief Executive Officer, Robert J. Glickman, and his immediate and extended family (the “Glickman Family”). The Glickman Family’s interest in retaining their investment in the Company may be highly dependent on Robert J. Glickman’s ability to continue his role as Chief Executive Office of the Company. As a result, any change in Robert J. Glickman’s role as Chief Executive Officer of the Company could have a material adverse effect on Corus’ business, financial condition, results of operation and ultimately the market price of Corus’ common stock. In addition, the Glickman Family, acting together, has the ability to significantly influence the election and removal of the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as the outcome of any other matters to be decided by a vote of shareholders. This concentration of ownership could delay, prevent or result in a change in control of the Company, even when a change in control may or may not be perceived by some, as being in the best interests of the Company’s shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 