ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations involve various risks that could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and the market price of its common stock. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CURRENT FINANCIAL POSITION There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In its report dated April 3, 2009, our independent registered public accounting firm stated that our net losses raise substantial doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is in doubt as a result of the continued deterioration of our loan portfolio and is subject to our ability to service our existing loans in a manner that will return the Company to profitability or, in the alternative, identify and consummate a strategic transaction, including the potential sale of the Company. On February 18, 2009, we announced that our Board of Directors is actively considering strategic alternatives, including a capital infusion or a merger. We can give no assurance that we will identify an alternative that allows our stockholders to realize an increase in the value of the Company’s stock. We also can give no assurance that a transaction or other strategic alternative, once identified, evaluated and consummated, will provide greater value to our stockholders than that reflected in the current stock price. In addition, a transaction, which would likely involve equity financing, would result in substantial dilution to our current stockholders and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. If we are unable to return to profitability and if we are unable to identify and execute a viable strategic alternative, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. 18 Table of Contents The Bank may be subject to a federal conservatorship or receivership if it cannot comply with the OCC Order, or if its condition continues to deteriorate. As noted above, the OCC Order requires the Bank to create and implement a capital plan, including provisions for contingency funding arrangements. In addition, the condition of the Bank’s loan portfolio may continue to deteriorate in the current economic environment and thus continue to deplete the Bank’s capital and other financial resources. Should the Bank fail to comply with the Order’s capital and liquidity funding requirements, or suffer a continued deterioration in its financial condition, the Bank may be subject to being placed into a federal conservatorship or receivership by the OCC, with the FDIC appointed as conservator or receiver. If these events occur, Corus probably would suffer a complete loss of the value of our ownership interest in the Bank, and we subsequently may be exposed to significant claims by the FDIC and the OCC. The continued deterioration of the housing market and the economy has adversely affected our business, liquidity and financial results, and if the downturn continues or worsens our ability to continue as a going concern could be adversely affected. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by condominium and condominium conversion projects. As a result, the significant downturn in the housing market has had a substantial negative effect on our business and has contributed to increased levels of delinquent and non-reporting assets, charge-offs and credit loss reserves. We reported a net loss of $456.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to net income of $106.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. These events, if they continue or worsen, will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation and also may impact our ability to continue as a going concern. We may be subjected to negative publicity that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We have recently been the subject of news reports discussing our current financial situation, and we may continue to be subject to negative publicity as the press and others speculate about whether we will be able to continue as a going concern. These reports may have a negative impact on our business. For example, even though our deposits are insured by the FDIC, customers may choose to withdraw their deposits, and new customers may choose to do business elsewhere. In addition, we may find that our service providers will be reluctant to commit to long-term projects with us. Even if we are able to improve our current financial situation, we may continue to be the object of negative publicity and speculation about our future. Our decision to defer interest on our Trust Preferred Securities will likely restrict our access to the debt capital markets until such time as we are current on our interest payments, which will further limit our sources of liquidity. During 2008, our Board of Directors elected to defer further interest payments on each of our junior subordinated debt securities relating to the Trust Preferred Securities. As a result, it is likely that we will not be able to raise money through the offering of debt securities until we become current on those obligations. This may also adversely affect our ability to obtain debt financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, we will likely have greater difficulty in obtaining financing and, thus, will have fewer sources to enhance our capital and liquidity position. 19 Table of Contents We have become subject to restrictions on the amount of interest that we can pay our customers, which could cause our deposits to decrease. Because we depend on deposits as a source of liquidity, a decrease in deposits would adversely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Virtually all of our funding comes from traditional deposit products. The Bank promotes selected deposit accounts to both individuals and businesses at competitive rates. By marketing its deposit products nationally, the Bank is able to attract deposits without being limited to competing solely in the very competitive Chicago market. The Bank competes for customer deposits largely on the basis of the interest rates that it pays out. Under the Order, the Bank is restricted in the amount of interest that it can pay out. As a result, we likely could experience a decrease in new deposits, and our existing customers may transfer their deposits to other institutions that are able to offer a higher interest rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. The Regulatory Agreements generally prohibit Corus and the Bank from paying any dividends or distributions on our respective equity securities. Under the terms of the Agreement, the Company cannot pay any dividends or make any distributions on its equity or trust preferred securities without prior written FRB approval. In addition, under the terms of the Order, the Bank cannot pay any dividends or make any distributions on its equity securities without, among other things, prior written OCC approval. Given the Company’s and the Bank’s current condition, it is doubtful that either the FRB or the OCC would approve any dividend payment or capital distribution at this time. Accordingly, for at least the time being, the Company probably will not be able to look to the Bank’s financial resources to satisfy its own financial obligations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OUR INDUSTRY Continued deteriorating conditions in the housing market may lead to increased losses on loans. The effects of the current economic environment are being felt across many industries, and the housing market has been substantially affected, resulting in longer marketing periods for homes, growing inventories of unsold homes, and increased foreclosure rates. As a result, property values have declined substantially. If economic conditions in the residential real estate sector continue to deteriorate, we will likely see a material increase in problem loans. This risk includes both a shortage of buyers and an increase in cancelled contracts. We have already classified a number of loans as problem loans, and if the housing market does not improve substantially or worsens, we will likely experience increased losses on our loans. The risk of cancelled contracts is particularly important in the Florida market, which is known as a “pre-sale” market. One of the main factors in our underwriting in this market was the existence and the strength of pre-sale contracts. Generally, the sales contracts in Florida required a non-refundable earnest money deposit of 20% of the purchase price. If a condominium buyer does not close on a unit, the buyer must generally forfeit the deposit. Nevertheless, if these “pre-sale” buyers were to cancel contracts at a material rate, the risk related to our construction loans would increase significantly. 20 Table of Contents Our focus on condominium lending and geographic concentration has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our operations. We have a lending concentration in multi-family properties involving the construction of new condominiums and the conversion of existing apartments into condominium buildings. At December 31, 2008, approximately 75% of the total commercial real estate loan commitments were collateralized by condominium buildings. Additionally, while our loans are collateralized by properties across the United States, the geographic concentration of commercial real estate loans remains in various metropolitan areas, including Miami, Los Angeles, San Diego, the District of Columbia, Atlanta, Chicago, Las Vegas, and New York City, all of which have been hit particularly hard by the economic downturn. While we had recognized that a severe downturn in the real estate markets was possible, if not likely, and had attempted to position ourselves accordingly, the current housing calamity is even worse than the “severe downturn” for which we had planned. The Regulatory Agreements impose significant restrictions on our operations, and the cost of compliance, as well as any possible failure to comply, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Regulatory Agreements contain a list of strict requirements ranging from a capital directive, which requires Corus and the Bank to achieve and maintain minimum regulatory capital levels (in the Bank’s case, in excess of the statutory minimums to be classified as well-capitalized) to developing a liquidity risk management and contingency funding plan, in connection with which the Bank will be subject to limitations on the maximum interest rates the Bank can pay on deposit accounts. The Regulatory Agreements also include several requirements related to loan administration as well as procedures for managing the Bank’s growing portfolio of foreclosed real estate assets. Any material failure to comply with the provisions of the Regulatory Agreements could result in further enforcement actions by the OCC or the FRB. While we intend to take such actions as may be necessary to comply with the requirements of the Regulatory Agreements, we may be unable to comply fully with the provisions of the Regulatory Agreements, or our efforts to comply with the Regulatory Agreements, particularly the limitations on interest rates offered by the Bank, may have adverse effects on our operations and financial condition. We are unable to predict when, and to what extent, we will be able to originate new loans or offer new products. Our future growth relies on our ability to identify and execute new, profitable loans. However, in light of the current market conditions, we have decided that we need to focus on servicing our existing portfolio and we are unsure when, and to what extent, we will begin to originate new loans or offer new products. Moreover, we will need prior regulatory approval to originate new commercial loans. If we are unable to originate new, profitable loans for an extended period, our financial condition and results of operations will continue to be adversely affected. The guarantors of our loans may not be able to provide adequate support. We routinely receive guarantees of completion and guarantees that address “bad acts.” If guarantors do not honor their guarantees in a material fashion, including their completion guarantees related to halted projects and/or cost overruns on projects, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Moreover, in many of our problem loan situations, either the borrower or a mezzanine lender subordinate to us has supported the project/loan with substantial amounts of additional cash. However, since most of our loans are non-recourse upon project completion, past financial support is no guarantee of future support, particularly if the market weakens further or if the market stays at its currently depressed levels for an extended period of time. If this support diminishes materially, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Our investment portfolio consists of short-term, unsecured debt and is subject to credit risk. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of short-term, unsecured debt issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”), the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”) and the Federal Home Loan Bank System (the “FHLB”). These organizations are most commonly referred to as government-sponsored enterprises (“GSE”). Each of these organizations was chartered to facilitate home ownership in the United States. Neither Fannie Mae nor Freddie Mac are backed or funded by the U.S. government, nor do the securities they issue benefit from any explicit government guarantee or protection. Likewise, FHLB debt does not carry any explicit government guarantee (although the debt issued by the FHLB is joint and several obligations of all 12 banks of the FHLB). We are subject to risk that the issuers of some of the Bank’s investments, including its holdings of the short-term debt issued by several GSEs and certificates of deposits issued by various U.S. banks, could experience credit problems, which would lower the value of these investments. Our loan portfolio is subject to construction risk and market risk. Problems which can arise in the financing of for-sale condominium housing can be broken down into three broad categories: (1) projects where construction is at risk of coming to a halt; (2) projects where there are material cost overruns that are not being covered by borrowers, completion guarantors or sponsors; and (3) projects where construction is complete, but either (a) sales are weak, and/or (b) presale buyers walk away from their contracts. Although we take steps to limit these risks, weakening economic conditions in the residential real estate sector, which may be caused by, among other things, supply/demand imbalances and higher interest rates, has increased, and may continue to increase, these risks, causing an increase in nonaccrual and otherwise nonperforming loans. An increase in nonaccrual and otherwise nonperforming loans results in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for credit losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Other market risks include the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events, such as an earthquake, hurricane or act of terrorism, any of which could affect properties securing the loans. Tightening lending standards to home purchasers may indirectly adversely affect our results of operations. We have a lending concentration in for-sale housing properties involving the construction of new condominiums and the conversion of existing apartments into condominium buildings. Since our customers are condominium developers who sell units to individuals, the tightening of lending standards to individual home purchasers have resulted in and may continue to result in fewer sales by developers which, in turn, would adversely affect our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents The slowdown in the residential real estate sector has led to and could continue to lead to foreclosures, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The slowdown in the residential real estate sector has resulted in our reporting higher levels of problem loans. There can be no assurances that borrowers or subordinated lenders will agree to support problem loans. If they do not do so, we will be required to foreclose. For example, subsequent to December 31, 2008, we have foreclosed or are in the process of foreclosing on 18 loans. Although we believe that a foreclosure may preserve a significant amount of the value of a problem loan, this process could be expensive and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our Allowance for Credit Losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in the loan portfolio. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. A critical estimate relates to the level of the Allowance for Credit Losses. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the estimation of the appropriate level of the Allowance for Credit Losses, we may sustain credit losses that are greater, perhaps significantly, than the provided allowance. For example, the Allowance for Credit Losses increased from $77.0 million to $304.9 million from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008. If we are required to increase the Allowance for Credit Losses in the future, this will have the effect of reducing earnings or increasing our losses. The financial services industry is highly competitive. We face significant competition in all of our business activities, including principally commercial real estate lending and deposit gathering. Competitors include other commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, brokerage firms, finance companies, insurance companies and mutual funds. Some of these competitors may have substantially greater resources than us and may benefit from greater name recognition. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Competition depends on a number of factors, including: • interest rates and points/fees charged on loans • interest rates paid on deposits • service charges • banking hours • locations including ATM access and • other service-related products. Our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our growth and profitability which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in market interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. Our income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowing. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Fluctuations in interest rates may also affect the demand by customers for our products and services. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. 23 Table of Contents The “market spreads” impacting our assets and liabilities may not fluctuate in sync with each other, which could negatively impact our earnings. Interest earned on assets and paid on liabilities fluctuates, in part, based on spreads to benchmark rates as determined by the broader market. These spreads may or may not fluctuate in sync with each other. To the extent that spreads paid on deposits either increase in advance of, or decrease later than, the spreads on loans and deposits, our earnings may be negatively impacted. In addition, if the credit crisis results in a more or less permanent upward shift in the funding costs for banks (higher spreads), our earnings may be adversely affected. The relative timing of asset and liability repricing may impact our earnings during periods of rapid increases or decreases in short-term interest rates. A significant portion of our funding comes from Certificates of Deposit, the bulk of which have an original maturity of 6 or 12 months. In contrast, our investment portfolio and loans tend to have a shorter term and/or reprice more frequently. As a result, during times of rapidly changing short-term interest rates, our interest-bearing assets will, in the aggregate, reprice more rapidly than our interest-bearing liabilities. This can result in decreases in income during times of falling rates and increases in earnings during times of increasing rates. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel. We believe that our future success depends, in part, on its ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, including Robert J. Glickman, our Chief Executive Officer, and other senior loan officers. If one or more of our key employees leaves, we will have to find a replacement with the combination of skills and attributes necessary to execute our strategy. For example, in October 2008 the Company’s then Chief Financial Officer and the Executive Vice President of Commercial Lending resigned. While we appointed a new Chief Financial Officer, he is currently on personal leave. In addition, we have not replaced our EVP of Commercial Lending and Mr. Glickman is currently assuming these duties as well. Because competition for skilled employees is intense, and the process of finding qualified individuals can be lengthy and expensive, we believe that the loss of the services of key personnel could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a heavily regulated environment. The banking industry is heavily regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the FDIC’s insurance fund and the banking system as a whole. The Company and the Bank are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, the OCC, and the SEC. Our business may be impacted not only by competitive factors but also by federal and state laws, regulations, and policies affecting banks and bank holding companies. These statutes, regulations and policies, or the interpretation or implementation of them, may change, and such changes may materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, federal banking regulators have broad authority to supervise the banking business of the Company and its subsidiary, including the authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound banking practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, or administrative order, or to place the Bank into conservatorship or receivership under certain circumstances. The exercise of such powers by federal banking regulators could have a material adverse effect on our business. 24 Table of Contents The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts could create liabilities for us. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. In recent years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we have developed policies and procedures intended to result in compliance, any noncompliance could negatively impact our results of operations. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and other regulatory bodies periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. Income tax regulations are complex and subject to change. We are subject to Federal and state income tax regulations. Income tax regulations are often complex and require interpretation. Changes in income tax laws or regulations could negatively impact our results of operations. We may be unable to realize all or part of our deferred tax asset, which would negatively impact our net earnings or loss. We calculate income taxes in accordance with SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, which generally requires us to determine whether it is more likely than not that our deferred tax asset balances will be recovered. At December 31, 2008, the net deferred tax asset after valuation allowance was $43.3 million. During 2008, we recorded a valuation allowance of $92.7 million based principally on uncertainty about our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income to utilize this asset to offset future income tax liabilities. Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to exercise significant judgment. If we determine that an additional valuation allowance for the deferred tax asset is necessary, we would be required to take an additional charge, which would lower our earnings or increase our net loss. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Ownership of our outstanding common shares is concentrated in the Glickman Family. Approximately 43% of our outstanding common shares are owned by the Chief Executive Officer, Robert J. Glickman, and his immediate and extended family (the “Glickman Family”). The Glickman Family’s interest in retaining their investment in the Company may be highly dependent on Robert J. Glickman’s ability to continue his role as our Chief Executive Officer. As a result, any change in Robert J. Glickman’s role as our Chief Executive Officer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and ultimately the market price of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents In addition, the Glickman Family, acting together, has the ability to significantly influence the election and removal of our Board of Directors, as well as the outcome of any other matters to be decided by a vote of shareholders. This concentration of ownership could delay, prevent or result in a change in control of the Company, even when a change in control may or may not be perceived by some as being in the best interests of our shareholders. The price for our common shares is volatile. The market prices for our common shares and for securities of companies in the financial services industry have recently been highly volatile. Future announcements concerning us or our competitors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common shares. Factors which may affect the market price for our common shares, among others, include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry and the housing market; • changes in government regulations; and • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. If the trading price of our common shares fails to comply with the continued listing requirements of The Nasdaq Global Market, we would face possible delisting, which would result in a limited public market for our common shares. If we do not continue to comply with the continued listing requirements for The Nasdaq Global Market, then Nasdaq may provide written notification regarding the delisting of our securities. At that time, we would have the right to request a hearing to appeal The Nasdaq determination and would also have the option to apply to transfer our securities to The Nasdaq Capital Market. We cannot be sure that our price will comply with the requirements for continued listing of our common shares on The Nasdaq Global Market, or that any appeal of a decision to delist our common shares will be successful. If our common shares lose their status on The Nasdaq Global Market and we are not successful in obtaining a listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, our common shares would likely trade in the over-the-counter market. If our shares were to trade on the over-the-counter market, selling our common shares could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our common shares are delisted, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common shares, further limiting the liquidity thereof. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for common shares. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 