Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a number of risks. We urge you to read all of the information contained in this Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we urge you to consider carefully the following factors in evaluating an investment in our common shares. Risks Related to an Investment in Us Our independent registered public accountants have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In their audit report for the year ended December 31, 2008, our independent registered public accountants have stated that certain matters raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have been significantly and negatively impacted by the events and conditions impacting the banking industry. We and the industry have been adversely affected by rising unemployment, declining real estate and financial asset prices, and rising delinquency and loss rates on loans. These in turn have caused significant losses, reduced our capital materially, and had other follow-on consequences. While it has not yet occurred, there is the potential for these events to impact our on-going access to liquidity sources. In addition, some of our on-going operations, particularly our ability to continue to access our traditional funding sources, are impacted by our regulatory capital ratios and regulatory standing. Should management be unable to execute on its plans, including restoring and maintaining its capital ratios at amounts that would result in its ratios being sufficient to be declared “well capitalized,” there could be a doubt on our ability to remain a going concern. Our audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of 20 Table of Contents assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment in the Company. The price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for shareholders to resell common shares they own at times or at prices they find attractive. The price of our common shares on the NYSE constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common shares will continue to fluctuate. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • our past and future dividend practice; • our creditworthiness; • interest rates; • the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and developments with respect to financial institutions generally; • the market for similar securities; and • economic, financial, geopolitical, regulatory, congressional or judicial events and actions that affect us or the financial markets. Accordingly, our common shares may trade at a price lower than that at which they were purchased. In addition, in recent months, the stock market in general experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies and particularly those in the financial services and banking sector, including for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may persist, and could adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. We are not restricted from issuing additional common shares, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common shares, as well as any common shares that may be issued pursuant to our shareholder rights plan. The market price of our common shares could decline as a result of sales of our common shares or the perception that such sales could occur. The market price of our common shares could also decline if we issue additional common shares in connection with an exchange of a portion of our trust preferred shares for our common shares or warrants associated with the receipt of an investment from the U.S. government. At this time, we are unable to determine whether we will complete these transactions or the number of shares that we will issue in connection with any exchange offer. 21 Table of Contents The trading volume in the Corporation’s common shares is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Although the Corporation’s common shares are listed for trading on the NYSE, the trading volume in its common shares is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Corporation’s common shares at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Corporation has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Corporation’s common shares, significant sales of the Corporation’s common shares, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Corporation’s share price to fall. You may not receive dividends on the common shares. Holders of our common shares are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. On March 3, 2008, we announced that our board of directors voted to suspend payment of dividends on our common, preferred and trust preferred securities. In addition, as a result of the written agreement that we and Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company entered into on October 10, 2008, with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, we are not permitted to (1) declare or pay any dividend, or (2) make any distributions of interest or principal on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities, without the prior written approval of these regulators. As a result we cannot declare a dividend on our common shares. Although we can seek to obtain a waiver of this prohibition, the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions may choose not to grant such a waiver and we would not expect to be granted a waiver or be released from this obligation until our financial performance improves significantly. Therefore, we may not be able to resume payments of dividends in the future. The issuance of additional series of our preferred shares could adversely affect holders of our common shares which may negatively impact shareholders’ investment. Our board of directors is authorized to issue additional classes or series of preferred shares without any action on the part of the shareholders. The board of directors also has the power without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred shares that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over our common shares with respect to dividends or upon our dissolution, winding-up and liquidation and other terms. If we issue additional preferred shares in the future that have a preference over our common shares with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common shares, the rights of holders of our common shares or the market price of our common shares could be adversely affected. We have regulatory restrictions on our ability to receive dividends from bank subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends in the future depends predominantly on our ability to dividend from our state-chartered bank subsidiary, Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company, to our holding company, for which prior approval from our regulators and additional action by our board of directors will be necessary. As a result of the written agreement that we and Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company entered into on October 10, 2008, with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company, is not permitted to (1) declare or pay any dividend, or (2) make any distributions of interest or principal on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities, without the prior written approval of these regulators. As a result, Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company cannot declare a dividend to us. Although Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company can seek to obtain a waiver of this prohibition, the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions may choose not to grant such a waiver and we would not expect to be granted a waiver or be released from this obligation until our financial performance improves significantly. Therefore, Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company may not be able to resume payments of dividends to our holding company in the future. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year, and at times, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced 22 Table of Contents downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without apparent regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If the current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we could experience further adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our results of operations. Our shareholder rights plan, provisions in our restated articles of incorporation, our by-laws, and Indiana law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us by a third party. Our board of directors has implemented a shareholder rights plan which, combined with Indiana law, and absent further action by our board, contains provisions which have certain anti-takeover effects. While the purpose of these plans is to strengthen the negotiating position of the board in the event of a hostile takeover attempt, the overall effects of the plan may be to render more difficult or discourage a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, the assumption of control by a holder of a larger block of our shares and the removal of incumbent directors and key management. If triggered, the rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us without approval of our board of directors, and under certain circumstances, the rights beneficially owned by the person or group may become void. The plan also may have the effect of limiting the participation of certain shareholders in transactions such as mergers or tender offers whether or not such transactions are favored by incumbent directors and key management. This could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for shareholders to elect their own representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. Our by-laws do not permit cumulative voting of shareholders in the election of directors, allowing the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares to control the election of all our directors. We have a staggered board, which means that only one-third of our board can be replaced by shareholders at any annual meeting. Directors may not be removed by shareholders. Our by-laws also provide that only our board of directors, and not our shareholders, may adopt, alter, amend and repeal our by-laws. Indiana law provides several limitations that may discourage potential acquirers from purchasing our common shares. In particular, Indiana law prohibits business combinations with a person who acquires 10% or more of our common shares during the five-year period after the acquisition of 10% by that person or entity, unless the acquirer receives prior approval for the acquisition of the shares or business combination from our board of directors. These and other provisions of Indiana law and our governing documents are intended to provide the board of directors with the negotiating leverage to achieve a more favorable outcome for our shareholders in the event of an offer for the company. However, these same anti-takeover provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our shareholders. Risks Related to the Capital and Credit Markets The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a highly challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national conditions and local conditions in our markets. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. While we are taking steps to decrease and limit our exposure to residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines of credit, and construction and land loans, we nonetheless retain significant direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets as a result of our holdings of these types of loans, and we are affected by these events. Our commercial banking line of business has a substantial portfolio of construction and land development loans. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The decline in our financial performance over the last two years, and the reduction in capital ratios during 2008 have subjected us to increased regulatory scrutiny and restrictions in the current environment. In addition, the continuing national economic recession and further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following other consequences: loan delinquencies, problem assets, foreclosures and loan charge-offs may increase; continued deterioration of our capital ratios, demand for our products and services may 23 Table of Contents decline; deposits may decrease, which would adversely impact our liquidity position; and collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. If our capital ratios or liquidity position deteriorate, we potentially face regulatory action, including a takeover of Irwin Union Bank and Trust and Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B., which could affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Our inability to participate in the UST’s CPP (or its equivalent) could have negative adverse effects on our share price, the rights offer and our future growth prospects. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA. The primary feature of the EESA is the establishment of a TARP, under which the UST was authorized to use up to $700 billion to purchase troubled assets, including mortgage-backed and other securities, from financial institutions and to make equity investments in banks (and possibly other financial institutions) through the CPP (and subsequently the Capital Assistance Program or CAP) for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. The standby commitments for our shareholder rights offering were entered into prior to the announcement of TARP. These standby commitments contained a condition that our capital plan be acceptable to our regulators. Subsequently, we applied for an investment under the CPP. Our standby investors now consider the approval of a TARP investment in us as the best indication of regulatory acceptance of our capital plan. Although our application for participation in the CPP is still pending, we believe it is unlikely to be approved absent a change in policy. We have submitted to the Department of the Treasury and the banking agencies a proposed modification to the current capital programs developed under the EESA. See the “Recently Adopted and Proposed Federal and State Laws and Regulations” section above. In the event our proposal to the Treasury is not accepted or we are not approved under a change in policy, we would not have the benefits provided by a significant increase in our capital, whereas certain of our competitors may have this capital available to support their activities. In addition, because of the extensive publicity of the CPP and certain market perceptions as to the financial health of institutions that are denied access to the CPP, the effect on our share price, our ability to raise capital, our future ability to grow organically, and our liquidity could be adversely affected. More generally, we do not know what long-term impact the TARP, the CPP or the CAP will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. If the TARP, the CPP or the CAP does not have its intended beneficial effect on the participating financial institutions and the market more generally, the financial markets could be affected materially and adversely, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The EESA is relatively new legislation and, as such, is subject to change and evolving interpretation. The Obama Administration has already begun making changes in the TARP programs from the way they were originally administered under the Bush Administration. There can be no assurances as to the effects that such changes will have on the effectiveness of the EESA, or our ability to participate in any programs, or ultimately on our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. If we participate in the CPP or its equivalent your ownership interest and voting power will be diluted and other rights of shareholders could be adversely affected. Based on the standard documentation for the CPP, if we participate in the CPP or its equivalent, the effects on the rights of our shareholders will likely include: (i) restrictions on the payment of dividends to holders of our common shares and (ii) restrictions on distributions of assets to our shareholders upon a liquidation or dissolution of our holding company and until the satisfaction of any liquidation preference granted to preferred shares issued in connection with the CPP. In addition, shareholders would suffer dilution of their equity interest and voting power upon exercise of any warrants granted to the UST. See the “Recently Adopted and Proposed Federal and State Laws and Regulations” section above. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. We are attempting to raise additional capital to meet the goals of our Capital Plan. Our ability to raise additional capital, will depend on, among other things, initiatives such as the UST’s CPP, conditions in the capital markets which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The loss of confidence in financial 24 Table of Contents institutions in general, or in the Corporation in particular (including as a result of our independent public accountants opinion that there is substantial doubt about the Corporation’s ability to continue as a going concern) may impede our ability to raise capital. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets may adversely affect our ability to operate and as such, could have a materially adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business We may be adversely affected by a general deterioration in economic conditions. The risks associated with our business become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or slow growth such as we experienced during 2008 and which has continued into 2009. Economic declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for consumer and commercial credit and declining real estate and other asset values. The credit quality of commercial loans and leases where the activities of the borrower or vendor are related to housing and other real estate markets may decline in periods of stress in these industries. Delinquencies, foreclosures, credit losses, and servicing costs generally increase during economic slowdowns or periods of slow growth such as the one we are presently experiencing. Although we are in the process of exiting our home equity line of business, as described more fully in “Strategy” we continue to have exposure to losses so long as we hold a portfolio of loans. As such, a material decline in real estate values may reduce the ability of borrowers to use home equity to support borrowings and could increase the loan-to-value ratios of loans we have previously made, thereby weakening collateral coverage and increasing the possibility of a loss in the event of a default. A decline in real estate values could also materially lower runoff in our existing portfolio, effectively extending the average life of the loans in the portfolio (and therefore prolonging the period we are exposed to losses). We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. We and our subsidiaries are subject to interest rate risk. Changes in interest rates will affect the value of loans, deposits and other interest-sensitive assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. Our income may be at risk because changes in interest rates also affect our net interest margin and the value of assets and derivatives that we sell from time to time or that are subject to either mark-to-market accounting or lower-of-cost-or-market accounting, such as loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivatives instruments. Reductions in interest rates expose us to write-downs in the carrying value of the mortgage servicing assets we hold on our balance sheet. Some of these assets are marked to market value and others are recorded at the lower of their cost or market value and a valuation allowance is recorded for any impairment. Decreasing interest rates often lead to increased prepayments in the underlying loans, which requires that we write down the carrying value of these servicing assets. The change in value of these assets, if improperly hedged or mismanaged, could adversely affect our operating results in the period in which the impairment occurs. Our lines of business mainly depend on earnings derived from net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest expense paid on other borrowings, including deposits at our banks and other funding liabilities we have. Our interest income and interest expense are affected by general economic conditions and by the policies of regulatory authorities, including the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve that cause our funding costs and yields on new or variable rate assets to change. Although we take measures intended to manage the risks of operating in changing interest rate environments, we cannot eliminate interest rate sensitivity. Our goal is to ensure that interest rate sensitivity does not exceed prudent levels as determined by our board of directors in certain policies. Our risk management techniques include modeling interest rate scenarios, using financial hedging instruments, and match-funding certain loan assets. There are costs and risks associated with our risk management techniques, and these could be substantial. Finally, to reduce the effect interest rates have on our businesses, we periodically invest in derivatives and other interest-sensitive instruments. While our intent in purchasing these instruments is to reduce our overall interest rate sensitivity, the performance of these instruments can, at times, cause volatility in our results either due to factors 25 Table of Contents such as basis risk between the derivatives and the hedged item, timing of accounting recognition differences or other such factors. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to secure adequate funding; our use of wholesale funding sources exposes us to potential liquidity risk. As a result of our restructuring, including our prior discontinuation of our mortgage banking line of business, we have had to seek alternative funding sources to contribute to our other lines of business, which sources in some cases are more expensive than those previously used. Due to the sale of mortgage servicing rights and the loss of escrow deposits associated with those servicing rights in 2007, we have increased our reliance on wholesale funding, such as Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings, public funds, and brokered deposits in recent quarters. Because wholesale funding sources are affected by general capital market conditions, the availability of funding from wholesale lenders and depositors may be dependent on the confidence these parties have in commercial banking, franchise finance, and consumer finance businesses. While we have processes in place to monitor and mitigate these funding risks, the continued availability to us of these funding sources is uncertain, and we could be adversely impacted if our business segments become disfavored by wholesale lenders or large depositors. Because the supervisory agreement with the Office of Thrift Supervision requires Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B. (which held approximately 12 percent of our total assets as of December 31, 2008) to maintain a specific capital level, Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B. is considered “adequately capitalized.” Irwin Union Bank and Trust is also considered “adequately capitalized” as a result of its capital ratios as of December 31, 2008. As a result, neither Irwin Union Bank and Trust or Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B. is permitted to accept additional brokered deposits unless it receives the prior approval of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Although we have applied for approval for Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B. and intend to apply for approval for Irwin Union Bank and Trust, these approvals might not be granted. Therefore, Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B. and Irwin Union Bank and Trust may continue not to be able to accept brokered deposits in the future. Moreover, even if such an approval is granted, the supervisory agreement would still impose limitations on Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B.’s freedom to set rates for brokered deposits. Another significant source of funding for Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company is public funds, the majority of which are in the State of Indiana. Indiana public funds are insured by the Indiana Public Deposit Insurance Fund and in some cases by the FDIC. Irwin Union Bank continues to be eligible to accept public funds in Indiana. Its ongoing eligibility depends upon continued progress on the Company’s plans to improve the Banks’ capital ratios through the completion of transactions that would remove substantial home equity assets from our balance sheet and to raise additional capital. As with any bank, our Bank’s primary regulators, the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, may declare the Bank undercapitalized at any time regardless of its current capital ratios. Such an occurrence would cause us to become ineligible to accept additional public funds in Indiana beyond those we already hold, which would continue to be insured to the extent provided by the Public Deposit Insurance Fund statute. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loans or lease originations, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature. If there were an acceleration of the recording of losses on our home equity portfolio from our current expectations, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and capital position. As announced in July 2008, we agreed to securitize $268 million of home equity whole loans. The securitization is treated as a financing and, as such, the loans remain on our balance sheet. We will evaluate the performance of the loans on a regular basis. A number of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in regulatory or accounting interpretations, changes to our accounting policy, or contractual triggers, could cause us to accelerate the recognition of losses in a single period or a small number of successive periods. If that were to occur, it may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and capital position for such periods. 26 Table of Contents We have credit risk inherent in our asset portfolios. In our businesses, some borrowers may not repay loans that we make to them. As all financial institutions do, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses and other reserves to absorb the level of losses that we think is probable in our portfolios. However, our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover the loan and lease losses that we actually may incur. While we maintain a reserve at a level management believes is adequate, our charge-offs could exceed these reserves. If we experience defaults by borrowers in any of our businesses to a greater extent than anticipated, our earnings could be negatively impacted. We review the adequacy of these reserves and the underlying estimates on a periodic basis and we make adjustments to the reserves when required. However, our actual losses could exceed our estimates and negatively impact our earnings. As part of our written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, we and Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company agreed to review and revise as necessary our allowance for loan and lease losses methodology to assure compliance with relevant supervisory guidance and to maintain an acceptable program for the maintenance of an adequate allowance for loan and lease losses going forward. As a result of such review, we determined that the documentation supporting our loan and lease loss reserves methodology should be enhanced and we subsequently implemented these enhancements. Although these enhancements did not result in any changes to any of our previously-reported reserves, such reserves may change in the future as economic and borrower conditions change. We hold in our portfolio a significant number of construction, land and home equity loans, which may pose more credit risk than other types of mortgage loans. In light of current economic conditions, construction and land loans and home equity loans and lines of credit are considered more risky than other types of mortgage loans. Due to the disruptions in credit and housing markets, many of the developers to whom we lend experienced a dramatic decline in sales of new homes from their projects. As a result of this unprecedented market disruption, a material amount of our land and construction portfolio has or may become non-performing as developers are unable to build and sell homes in volumes large enough for orderly repayment of loans. At December 31, 2008, our $4.4 billion loan and lease portfolio included $0.5 billion (or about 10 percent) of real estate construction and land development (C&LD) loans. Included in the $0.5 billion of C&LD loans were $70 million (or about 15 percent) that were nonperforming. The highest concentration of these nonperforming loans is in the Phoenix and Las Vegas markets, which make up about 10 percent of our C&LD loan portfolio. In addition, as home values decline, borrowers are increasingly defaulting on home equity lines of credit in the portfolio of these loans that we hold. At December 31, 2008, we held $1.1 billion of home equity loans and lines of credit in our portfolio (which represented 18 percent of our total loan portfolio). Included in the $1.1 billion of home equity loans and lines of credit were $53 million (or 5 percent) that were categorized as nonperforming. Since May 1, 2008, we have limited our offering of construction and land development loans to an exception basis only. Between May 1, 2008 and December 31, 2008, we have originated only $20 million of these loans. Additionally, since August 21, 2008, we have ceased offering loans and lines of credit in our home equity line of business. Between August 21, 2008 and December 31, 2008, we funded $3 million in loans and lines of credit in our home equity line of business that were previously contracted for, but we have not originated any new loans in this segment since August 21, 2008. We believe we have established adequate reserves on our financial statements to cover the credit risk of these loan portfolios. However, losses could exceed our reserves, and ultimately result in a material level of charge-offs, which could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and capital. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we previously sold because of breaches of representation and warrants we made when selling the loans. We retain limited credit exposure from the sale of mortgage loans. When we sell mortgage loans, we make industry standard representations and warranties to the transferee regarding the loans. These representations and warranties do not assure against credit risk associated with the transferred loans, but if individual mortgage loans are found not to have fully complied with the associated representations and warranties we have made to a transferee, we may be required to repurchase the loans from the transferee or we may make payments in lieu of curing alleged breaches of these representations and warranties. Given the significant delinquencies in higher combined-loan-to- 27 Table of Contents value or loan-to-value products, we expect that claims for repurchases pursuant to contractual representation and warranties will increase. We have built a model to estimate a repurchase liability for losses that are probable and estimable based on expectations of paydowns, expected lives, default probabilities and losses given default derived from a combination of our historic experience and industry data. We have established a $10 million liability for what we consider as probable and reasonably estimable losses. However, losses attributable to repurchases could ultimately exceed our liability. Certain of our consumer mortgage products were not sold by many financial institutions. In the past, we originated high loan-to-value home equity loans not offered by many financial institutions. For this reason, the performance of some of our financial assets may be less predictable than those of other lenders. We may not have adequate experience in a variety of economic environments to predict accurately the losses from our remaining portfolios of these products. We rely heavily on our management team and key personnel, and the unexpected loss of key managers and personnel, or significant changes in senior management, may affect our operations adversely. Our overall financial performance depends heavily on the performance of key managers and personnel. Our past success was influenced strongly by our ability to attract and to retain senior management that is experienced in the niches within banking for which they are responsible. If we are not able to retain these key managers and personnel, we may not be able to run our operations as effectively. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams of each of our lines of business and our holding company continues to be important to implement our strategies successfully. As we complete our restructuring and have a more streamlined business model, it may be more difficult to retain some of our key managers. In our written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, we agreed to engage an independent consultant to assess the Corporation’s management and to take steps by December 9, 2008, to address the independent consultant’s findings, including hiring additional or replacement officers, if necessary. A report prepared by the independent consultant was submitted to the regulators and we have taken steps to address the consultant’s findings. The implementation of these steps is ongoing. The restrictions that the written agreements place on our ability to enter into and make payments pursuant to severance agreements may make it difficult to attract persons of high quality to fill management positions. Ownership of our common shares is concentrated in persons affiliated with us. Our Chairman and CEO, William I. Miller, currently has voting control, including common shares beneficially held through employee stock options that are exercisable within 60 days of January 31, 2009, of approximately 38 percent of our common shares. Together with Mr. Miller, directors and executive officers of Irwin beneficially own, including the right to acquire common stock through employee stock options that are exercisable within 60 days of January 31, 2009, approximately 42 percent of our common shares. These persons likely have the ability to substantially control the outcome of all shareholder votes and to direct our affairs and business. This voting power would enable them to cause actions to be taken that may prove to be inconsistent with the interests of non-affiliated shareholders. Our future success depends on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive financial services industry. The financial services industry, including commercial banking and franchise finance, is highly competitive. We and our operating subsidiaries encounter strong competition for deposits, loans and other financial services in all of the market areas in our lines of business. Our principal competitors include other commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mutual funds, money market funds, finance companies, trust companies, insurers, leasing companies, credit unions, mortgage companies, real estate investment trusts (REITs), private issuers of debt obligations, and suppliers of other investment alternatives, such as securities firms. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we and our subsidiaries are and have advantages over us in providing certain services. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater access to capital and other resources, lower operating costs, and lower cost of funds. Also, our ability to 28 Table of Contents compete effectively in our lines of business is dependent on our ability to adapt successfully to technological changes within the banking and financial services industry. We have entered into written agreements with our regulators and our business is affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Our failure to comply with these requirements can lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions, termination or suspension of our licenses, rights of rescission for borrowers, class action lawsuits and regulatory takeover of our bank subsidiaries. Legislation and regulations have had, may continue to have or may have significant impact on the financial services industry. Legislative or regulatory changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, causing us to change or limit some of our consumer loan products or the way we operate our different lines of business. Future changes could affect the profitability of some or all of our lines of business. On October 10, 2008, we entered into written agreements with our regulators. Our holding company and our state-chartered bank subsidiary, Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company, entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions. Our federal savings bank subsidiary, Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B., entered into a supervisory agreement with the Office of Thrift Supervision. The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions have extensive authority to require our holding company and the bank to correct practices that, during the course of their regular examination procedures, they identify as unlawful, unsafe, or unsound. The Office of Thrift Supervision has similar authority with respect to our savings bank. Accordingly, these regulators could revise the terms of the written agreements to modify existing requirements or add new ones, or could take supervisory actions in addition to the written agreements. The failure to comply with the terms of the written agreements, or other regulatory requirements that could be imposed in the future, could result in significant enforcement actions against us of increasing severity, up to and including a regulatory takeover of our bank subsidiaries. The written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions requires, among other things, that we submit a capital plan that will ensure our holding company and Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company maintain sufficient capital to comply with regulatory capital guidelines and to address the volume of our adversely affected assets, concentration of credit, adequacy of our allowance for loan and lease losses, planned growth and anticipated levels of retained earnings. The supervisory agreement with the Office of Thrift Supervision requires, among other things, that Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B. maintain a Tier 1 core capital ratio of at least 9% and a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of at least 11%. As a result of the written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, we and Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company are not permitted to (1) declare or pay any dividend without the prior approval of these regulators, or (2) make any distributions of interest or principal on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities, unless we obtain the prior written approval of these regulators. Therefore, we may not be able to resume payments of such dividends or distributions in the future. In addition, like other registrants, we are subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to have in place adequate programs and procedures could cause us to have gaps in our internal control environment, putting our holding company and its shareholders at risk of loss. These and other potential changes in government regulation or policies could increase our costs of doing business and could adversely affect our operations and the manner in which we conduct our business. A deterioration in our regulatory capital position could adversely affect us. The banking industry, in general, is heavily regulated. We and our subsidiaries are extensively regulated under state and federal law. Regulations of the Federal Reserve, the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation apply to us specifying capital ratio requirements to be considered in various levels of capital adequacy. In addition, these regulators reserve the right to reclassify institutions that meet these standards into a lower capital category at their own discretion based on safety and soundness considerations. 29 Table of Contents At December 31, 2008, our holding company, Irwin Financial Corporation, had a total risk-based capital ratio of 6.6 percent, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 3.3 percent, and a leverage ratio of 3.1 percent, which are in the “undercapitalized” range under applicable regulatory capital standards. As a result, the parent company is considered “undercapitalized.” Irwin Financial Corporation has no debt covenants that are affected by these ratios and, therefore, we do not expect the Company’s Total, Tier 1 and leverage ratio classifications to have an adverse liquidity impact on the Company. Our state-chartered bank subsidiary, Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company, had a total risk-based capital ratio of 9.3 percent which is within the “adequately capitalized” range, and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.3 percent and a leverage ratio of 6.7 percent, which are in the “well capitalized” range under applicable regulatory capital standards. As a result, Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company is considered “adequately capitalized.” In addition, because the supervisory agreement with the Office of Thrift Supervision requires our federal savings bank subsidiary, Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B., to maintain a specific level of capital, Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B. is considered “adequately capitalized,” although as of December 31, 2008, Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B. had capital levels above the statutory standards for “well capitalized.” The existence of a capital requirement for the thrift in a supervisory agreement precludes our thrift from being considered “well capitalized” regardless of the amount of capital held. Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company and Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B. are no longer permitted to accept brokered deposits unless they receive the prior approval of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Although we have applied for such approval for the savings bank and intend to for the bank, either might not be granted. Both the bank and savings bank are also effectively subject to certain restrictions on the yield they may pay on deposits. Both could be assessed higher premiums by the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and required to pay its regulators increased assessment and application fees. Irwin Union Bank and Trust continues to be eligible to accept public funds in Indiana. Indiana public funds are insured by the Indiana Public Deposit Insurance Fund. Irwin Union Bank and Trust’s ongoing eligibility to accept Indiana public funds depends upon continued progress on the Company’s plans to improve Irwin Union Bank and Trust’s capital ratios through the completion of transactions that would remove substantial home equity assets from our balance sheet and to raise additional capital. If Irwin Union Bank and Trust were to be declared undercapitalized by one of its primary regulators, it would become ineligible to accept additional public funds in Indiana beyond those it already holds, which would continue to be insured to the extent provided by the Public Deposit Insurance Fund statute. Moreover, if either Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company or Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B were to be considered an “undercapitalized” institution at some point in the future, either could be subject to certain prompt corrective action requirements, regulatory controls and restrictions, which become more extensive as an institution becomes more severely undercapitalized. If such actions were to be taken, it could adversely affect our business and we may have more limited access to funding. Our bank regulators are monitoring closely our liquidity, capital adequacy and ability to continue to operate in a safe and sound manner. As we pursue our capital raising plans, our bank regulators are monitoring liquidity and capital adequacy and evaluating the Corporation’s and our depository subsidiaries’ ability to continue to operate in a safe and sound manner. Our bank regulators have extensive authority to require the Corporation and its depository subsidiaries to correct practices that, during the course of their regular examination procedures, they identify as unsafe or unsound. This authority can take a variety of forms, including additional orders or conditions with which we would be required to comply and the assumption of control of our depository subsidiaries to protect the interests of depositors insured by the FDIC. Our strategic restructuring will decrease the diversification of our business and significantly increase our reliance on the performance of our commercial banking and franchise finance segments. If these segments do not perform as we anticipate, the decrease in diversification could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We announced a restructuring through a series of transactions to refocus on small business and local community banking. The transactions included the exit from the small ticket leasing business in the U.S. and 30 Table of Contents Canada, along with the sale of substantially all of the portfolio of loans and leases associated with these businesses. We also are in the process of exiting the home equity business through the sale or run-off of our home equity loan portfolio, as described more fully in “Strategy”, and the sale or managed reduction of the servicing platform as appropriate based on the run-off of loans. Historically, our commercial banking and franchise finance segments were consistent and stable performers, but they have also experienced losses during the current stressed economic environment. We have taken significant loan loss provisions in our commercial banking segment. Our non-performing loans have risen over the past year and although we have provided for this decline in credit quality, if these trends worsen or if the commercial banking segment or franchise segments otherwise do not perform as we expect, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We believe our strategic restructuring and focus on these businesses will ultimately improve our results, but we are no longer as diversified as we were prior to the restructuring and therefore do not have the same ability to offset negative trends or results in these segments. In addition, in order to better position ourselves to return to profitability, we have taken steps, and will take additional steps in connection with exiting the home equity business, to reduce the size and scope of our enterprise oversight group. This process involves execution risk and material downsizing risk, and may result in the unintended loss of key personnel. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings. We are a defendant in class actions and other lawsuits that could subject us to material liability. We and our subsidiaries have been named as defendants in lawsuits alleging, among other things, that we violated state and federal laws in the course of making loans and leases and breached agreements. Among the allegations are that we charged impermissible and excessive rates and fees, participated in fraudulent financing, are responsible for residential lead-based paint exposure, and breached contractual provisions. Some of these cases seek class action status, which generally involves a large number of plaintiffs and could result in potentially increased amounts of loss. At the present time, we are unable to quantify the amount of loss, if any, that we could suffer in these matters because the cases are in the early stages of litigation. We have not established reserves for all of these lawsuits due to either lack of probability of loss or inability to accurately estimate potential loss. However, if decided against us, the lawsuits have the potential to affect us materially. Our business may be affected adversely by fraud. We are inherently exposed to many types of operational risk, including those caused by the use of computer, internet and telecommunications systems. These may manifest themselves in the form of fraud by employees, by customers, other outside entities targeting us and/or our customers that use our internet banking, electronic banking or some other form of our telecommunications systems. Given the growing level of use of electronic, internet-based, and networked systems to conduct business directly or indirectly with our clients, certain fraud losses may not be avoidable regardless of the preventative and detection systems in place. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 31 Table of Contents 