Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a number of risks. We urge you to read all of the information contained in this Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we urge you to consider carefully the following factors in evaluating an investment in our common shares. Risks Relating to General Economic Conditions and Interest Rates. We may be adversely affected by a general deterioration in economic conditions. The risks associated with our business become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or slow growth. Economic declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for consumer and commercial credit and declining real estate and other asset values. Delinquencies, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or periods of slow growth. We expect that our servicing costs and credit losses will increase during periods of economic slowdown or slow growth. 11 Table of Contents In our home equity line of business, a material decline in real estate values may reduce the ability of borrowers to use home equity to support borrowings and could increase the loan-to-value ratios of loans we have previously made, thereby weakening collateral coverage and increasing the possibility of a loss in the event of a default. A decline in real estate values could also materially reduce the amount of home equity loans we produce. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. We and our subsidiaries are subject to interest rate risk. Changes in interest rates will affect the value of loans, deposits and other interest-sensitive assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. Our income may be at risk because changes in interest rates also affect our net interest margin and the value of assets and derivatives that we sell from time to time or that are subject to either mark-to-market accounting or lower-of-cost-or-market accounting, such as loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivatives instruments. Reductions in interest rates expose us to write-downs in the carrying value of the mortgage servicing and other servicing assets we hold on our balance sheet. These assets are recorded at the lower of their cost or market value and a valuation allowance is recorded for any impairment. Decreasing interest rates often lead to increased prepayments in the underlying loans, which requires that we write down the carrying value of these servicing assets. The change in value of these assets, if improperly hedged or mismanaged, could adversely affect our operating results in the period in which the impairment occurs. Our commercial lending and commercial finance lines of business mainly depend on earnings derived from net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest expense paid on other borrowings, including deposits at our banks and other funding liabilities we have. Our interest income and interest expense are affected by general economic conditions and by the policies of regulatory authorities, including the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve that cause our funding costs and yields on new or variable rate assets to change. Although we take measures intended to manage the risks of operating in changing interest rate environments, we cannot eliminate interest rate sensitivity. Our goal is to ensure that interest rate sensitivity does not exceed prudent levels as determined by our Board of Directors in certain policies. Our risk management techniques include modeling interest rate scenarios, using financial hedging instruments, and match-funding certain loan assets. There are costs and risks associated with our risk management techniques, and these could be substantial. Finally, to reduce the effect interest rates have on our businesses, we periodically invest in derivatives and other interest-sensitive instruments. While our intent in purchasing these instruments is to reduce our overall interest rate sensitivity, the performance of these instruments can, at times, cause volatility in our results either due to factors such as basis risk between the derivatives and the hedged item, timing of accounting recognition differences or other such factors. Risks Relating to an Investment in Us. We have recently had financial performance below that of peers and have lost money in two of the past four quarters. In the first and third quarters of 2006, we lost money and for the year 2006 we earned substantially less as a percentage of assets than peers, due in large part to the sale of our conforming mortgage banking segment. While we believe we are addressing the factors that caused this underperformance, there can be no assurance if and when our results will surpass that of our peers. We may need additional capital in the future and adequate financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We anticipate that we will be able to access capital markets as necessary to fund the growth of our business. However, we have recently been growing at a rate that exceeds our ability to generate internally capital sufficient to maintain our desired capital levels. While our current capital levels exceed our internal policies, we intend to seek additional capital in the future to fund growth of our operations and to maintain our regulatory capital above well-capitalized standards. We may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing, or, if available, it may not be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain the funding we need, we may be unable to 12 Table of Contents develop our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to secure adequate funding; our use of wholesale funding sources and securitizations exposes us to potential liquidity risk. Due to balance sheet growth, in recent quarters we have increased our reliance on wholesale funding, such as short-term credit facilities, Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings and brokered deposits. Because wholesale funding sources are affected by general capital market conditions, the availability of funding from wholesale lenders may be dependent on the confidence these investors have in commercial and consumer finance businesses. The continued availability to us of these funding sources is uncertain, and we could be adversely impacted if our business segments become disfavored by wholesale lenders. In addition, brokered deposits may be difficult for us to retain or replace at attractive rates as they mature. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loans or lease originations and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature. We regularly finance or sell the majority of our second mortgage loan originations into the secondary market through the use of securitizations. It is possible that some of our financial assets, such as high loan-to-value home equity loans or residuals, may not be readily marketable, and we may not be able to sell assets at favorable prices when necessary. This could adversely affect our profitability and/or liquidity for future originations and purchases of loans. Our discontinued mortgage banking line of business was a net provider of liquidity to the Corporation. Our divestiture of this segment has caused us to seek alternative funding sources to contribute to our other lines of business, which sources might be more expensive than those previously used. We have regulatory restrictions on our ability to receive dividends from bank subsidiaries. Irwin Union Bank and Trust may not, without the approval of the Federal Reserve, declare a dividend if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year, including the proposed dividend, exceeds the total of its net income for that year, combined with its retained net income of the preceding two years, less any required transfers to the surplus account. During the past two years, Irwin Union Bank and Trust dividends have exceeded net income during the same period. As a result, the bank cannot declare a dividend to us without regulatory approval until such time that current year earnings plus earnings from the last two years exceeds dividends during the same periods. We sought and were granted such approval for a $15 million dividend in the fourth quarter of 2006, but similar responses to future requests are not guaranteed. We have credit risk inherent in our asset portfolios. In our businesses, some borrowers may not repay loans that we make to them. As all financial institutions do, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses and other reserves to absorb the level of losses that we think is probable in our portfolios. However, our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover the loan and lease losses that we actually may incur. While we maintain a reserve at a level management believes is adequate, our charge-offs could exceed these reserves. If we experience defaults by borrowers in any of our businesses to a greater extent than anticipated, our earnings could be negatively impacted. Certain of our consumer mortgage products are not sold by many financial institutions. Product design is important to differentiate us in consumer mortgage lending. We have developed our lines of business by identifying niches that we believe offer us a competitive opportunity. For this reason, the performance of our financial assets may be less predictable than those of other lenders. We may not have the same history of delinquency and loss experience to utilize in pricing and structuring some of our products as do lenders offering more seasoned asset types, and it may be more difficult to sell or securitize certain, more innovative, products. 13 Table of Contents The generally accepted accounting principals (GAAP) for our activities have evolved in a meaningful manner in the past decade and we expect continued change. We may be impacted by changes in evolving generally accepted accounting principles, unanticipated financial reporting requirements and regulatory uncertainties since accounting and regulatory treatment may not be well established for some of our strategies. We rely heavily on our management team and key personnel, and the unexpected loss of key managers and personnel may affect our operations adversely. Each of our lines of business has its own management team. Our overall financial performance depends heavily on the results of these specialized financial services businesses units. Our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and to retain senior management that is experienced in the niches within banking and financial services for which they are responsible. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams of each of our lines of business will continue to be important to implement our strategies successfully. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated in persons affiliated with us. Our Chairman and CEO, William I. Miller, currently has voting control, including common shares beneficially held through employee stock options that are exercisable within 60 days of January 31, 2007, of approximately 38% of our common shares. Together with Mr. Miller, directors and executive officers of Irwin beneficially own, including the right to acquire common stock through employee stock options that are exercisable within 60 days of January 31, 2007, more than 40% of our common shares. These persons likely have the ability to substantially control the outcome of all shareholder votes and to direct our affairs and business. This voting power would enable them to cause actions to be taken that may prove to be inconsistent with the interests of non-affiliated shareholders. Our future success depends on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive financial services industry. The financial services industry, including commercial banking, mortgage lending, and commercial finance, is highly competitive, and we and our operating subsidiaries encounter strong competition for deposits, loans and other financial services in all of our market areas in each of our lines of business. Our principal competitors include other commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mutual funds, money market funds, finance companies, trust companies, insurers, leasing companies, credit unions, mortgage companies, real estate investment trusts (REITs), private issuers of debt obligations, venture capital firms, and suppliers of other investment alternatives, such as securities firms. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we and our subsidiaries are and have advantages over us in providing certain services. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater access to capital and other resources. Also, our ability to compete effectively in our lines of business is dependent on our ability to adapt successfully to technological changes within the banking and financial services industry. Our shareholder rights plan, provisions in our restated articles of incorporation, our by-laws, and Indiana law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us by a third party. Our Board of Directors has implemented a shareholder rights plan. The rights have certain anti-takeover effects. The overall effects of the plan may be to render more difficult or to discourage a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, the assumption of control by a holder of a larger block of our shares and the removal of incumbent directors and key management even if such removal would be beneficial to shareholders generally. If triggered, the rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us without approval of our Board of Directors, and under certain circumstances, the rights beneficially owned by the person or group may become void. The plan also may have the effect of limiting shareholder participation in certain transactions such as mergers or tender offers whether or not such transactions are favored by incumbent directors and key management. In addition, our executive officers may be more likely to retain their positions with us as a result of the plan, even if their removal would be beneficial to shareholders generally. Our restated articles of incorporation and our by-laws as well as Indiana law contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions also 14 Table of Contents could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect your own representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. Our by-laws do not permit cumulative voting of shareholders in the election of directors, allowing the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares to control the election of all our directors. We have a staggered board which means that only one-third of our board can be replaced by shareholders at any annual meeting. Directors may not be removed by shareholders. As a result of his share ownership position, our Chairman, William I. Miller, will likely be able to exercise effective control over the outcome of any shareholder vote. Our by-laws also provide that only our Board of Directors, and not our shareholders, may adopt, alter, amend and repeal our by-laws. Indiana law provides several limitations that may discourage potential acquirers from purchasing our common shares. In particular, Indiana law prohibits business combinations with a person who acquires 10% or more of our common shares during the five-year period after the acquisition of 10% by that person or entity, unless the acquirer receives prior approval for the acquisition of the shares or business combination from our Board of Directors. These and other provisions of Indiana law and our governing documents could provide the Board of Directors with the negotiating leverage to achieve a more favorable outcome for our shareholders in the event of an offer for the Company. On the other hand, these same anti-takeover provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our shareholders. We are the defendant in class actions and other lawsuits that could subject us to material liability. Our subsidiaries have been named as defendants in lawsuits that allege we violated state and federal laws in the course of making loans and leases. Among the allegations are that we charged impermissible and excessive rates and fees, participated in fraudulent financing, and are responsible for injuries to renters whose landlord had a mortgage with our subsidiary. Most of these cases either seek or have attained class action status, which generally involves a large number of plaintiffs and could result in potentially increased amounts of loss. We have not established reserves in the majority of these lawsuits due to either lack of probability of loss or inability to accurately estimate potential loss. If decided against us, the lawsuits have the potential to affect us materially. The Legal Proceedings section in Part I, Item 3 of this Report describes in more detail the lawsuits in which we are named as defendants that potentially could result in material liability. Our business may be affected adversely by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Our failure to comply with these requirements can lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions, termination or suspension of our licenses, rights of rescission for borrowers, and class action lawsuits. Recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have or may have significant impact on the financial services industry. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, causing us to change or limit some of our consumer loan products or the way we operate our different lines of business. Future changes could affect the profitability of some or all of our lines of business. Our subsidiary, Irwin Union Bank and Trust, has entered into a memorandum of understanding, which is considered an informal agreement, with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago as of March 1, 2007 to enhance the consumer compliance function and compliance oversight programs of Irwin Union Bank and Trust and its subsidiaries, and to provide quarterly written progress reports to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago with respect to these matters, commencing June 1, 2007. We have developed plans we believe will thoroughly address the issues raised by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, but if we are unsuccessful in implementing our plans, we could experience additional regulatory action. The consumer lending business in which we engage is highly regulated and has been the subject of increasing legislative and regulatory initiatives. Federal, state and local government agencies and/or legislators have adopted and continue to consider legislation to restrict lenders’ ability to charge rates and fees in connection with residential mortgage loans. In general, these proposals involve lowering the existing federal Homeownership and Equity Protection Act thresholds for defining a “high-cost” loan, and establishing enhanced protections and remedies for borrowers who receive these loans. Frequently referred to as “predatory lending” legislation, many of these laws and rules also restrict commonly accepted lending activities, including some of our activities, such as offering 15 Table of Contents balloon loan features and prepayment charges. These laws, regulations and initiatives have, and could further, limit our ability to impose various fees and charge what we believe are risk-based interest rates on various types of consumer loans, and may impose additional regulatory restrictions on our business in certain states. Because we originate home equity loans from our banking branch in Nevada, federal law permits us to charge interest rates and certain fees associated with the interest rate permitted by Nevada law regardless of where the borrowers may reside. Nonetheless, from time to time regulators and customers from other states have questioned our ability to charge certain fees, such as prepayment penalties, to residents of their states. At least one of the lawsuits pending against us challenges our ability to charge these fees to borrowers in another state. A change in federal or state law or regulation, or an adverse interpretation or decision by a court in litigation on this issue, may affect the rates and fees we charge on home equity loans made to borrowers outside Nevada. Our regulators have policies that can restrict the payment of cash dividends from our banking subsidiaries to us and from us to our shareholders. We have paid dividends on our common stock in the past but there is no certainty that we will continue to do so. Like other registrants, we are subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to have in place adequate programs and procedures could cause us to have gaps in our internal control environment, putting the Corporation and its shareholders at risk of loss. These and other potential changes in government regulation or policies could increase our costs of doing business and could adversely affect our operations and the manner in which we conduct our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 