Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a number of risks. We urge you to read all of the information contained in this Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we urge you to consider carefully the following factors in evaluating an investment in our common shares. Risks Relating to General Economic Conditions and Interest Rates. We may be adversely affected by a general deterioration in economic conditions. The risks associated with our business become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or slow growth such as we experienced in the latter half of 2007 and which has continued so far into 2008. Economic declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for consumer and commercial credit and declining real estate and other asset values. The credit quality of commercial loans and leases where the activities of the borrower or vendor are related to housing and other real estate markets may decline in periods of stress in these industries. Delinquencies, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or periods of slow growth. We expect that our servicing costs and credit losses will increase during periods of economic slowdown or slow growth such as the one we are presently experiencing. In our home equity line of business, a material decline in real estate values may reduce the ability of borrowers to use home equity to support borrowings and could increase the loan-to-value ratios of loans we have previously made, thereby weakening collateral coverage and increasing the possibility of a loss in the event of a default. A decline in real estate values could also materially reduce the amount of home equity loans we produce and lower runoff in our existing portfolio, effectively extending the average life of the loans in the portfolio (and therefore prolonging the period we are exposed to losses). We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. We and our subsidiaries are subject to interest rate risk. Changes in interest rates will affect the value of loans, deposits and other interest-sensitive assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. Our income may be at risk because changes in interest rates also affect our net interest margin and the value of assets and derivatives that we sell from time to time or that are subject to either mark-to-market accounting or lower-of-cost-or-market accounting, such as loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivatives instruments. Reductions in interest rates expose us to write-downs in the carrying value of the mortgage servicing and other servicing assets we hold on our balance sheet. These assets are recorded at the lower of their cost or market value and a valuation allowance is recorded for any impairment. Decreasing interest rates often lead to increased prepayments in the underlying loans, which requires that we write down the carrying value of these servicing assets. The change in value of these assets, if improperly hedged or mismanaged, could adversely affect our operating results in the period in which the impairment occurs. 14 Table of Contents Our lines of business mainly depend on earnings derived from net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest expense paid on other borrowings, including deposits at our banks and other funding liabilities we have. Our interest income and interest expense are affected by general economic conditions and by the policies of regulatory authorities, including the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve that cause our funding costs and yields on new or variable rate assets to change. Although we take measures intended to manage the risks of operating in changing interest rate environments, we cannot eliminate interest rate sensitivity. Our goal is to ensure that interest rate sensitivity does not exceed prudent levels as determined by our Board of Directors in certain policies. Our risk management techniques include modeling interest rate scenarios, using financial hedging instruments, and match-funding certain loan assets. There are costs and risks associated with our risk management techniques, and these could be substantial. Finally, to reduce the effect interest rates have on our businesses, we periodically invest in derivatives and other interest-sensitive instruments. While our intent in purchasing these instruments is to reduce our overall interest rate sensitivity, the performance of these instruments can, at times, cause volatility in our results either due to factors such as basis risk between the derivatives and the hedged item, timing of accounting recognition differences or other such factors. Risks Relating to an Investment in Us. We have recently had financial performance below that of peers and have lost money in each of the past four quarters. In 2007 and the first and third quarters of 2006, we lost money, due in large part to the sale of our conforming mortgage banking segment and conditions in the residential mortgage and real estate industries. While our current projections indicate that we will return to profitability in 2008, the uncertainty of all forecasts has increased substantially. • The unexpected losses sustained by the Corporation in the third and fourth quarters of 2007 can be directly traced to the unprecedented dislocation in the housing markets, rising unemployment, and less liquidity in certain portions of the credit markets. • The size of the third quarter loss in 2007 was primarily driven by the adjustment to the repurchase reserve in discontinued operations, reflecting a spike in repurchase demands in the third quarter. While we believe that the risk of needing additional reserves is declining as time passes (additional reserves were not required in the fourth quarter), this repurchase risk remains. • The size of the loss in the fourth quarter of 2007 was primarily driven by the acceleration of delinquencies at home equity in that quarter. The allowance for loan losses in this segment at the end of the fourth quarter was established assuming this negative trend continues into 2008. While we believe we are addressing the factors that caused this underperformance, there can be no assurance if and when our results will surpass that of our peers. We may need additional capital in the future and adequate financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. While we anticipate that we would be able to access capital markets as necessary to fund the growth of our business, the uncertainty of continued access increased due to market conditions in 2007. Our current capital levels exceed our internal policies. However, in consideration of the Corporation’s recent losses, on February 28, 2008, the Board of Directors elected to curtail additional corporate borrowings at the parent company level, with certain exceptions, in an aggregate amount greater than the indebtedness currently outstanding until such time as the Board determines that economic conditions and our profitability have improved. The restriction on additional borrowings does not apply to our subsidiaries Irwin union Bank and Trust Company or Irwin Union Bank, FSB. If we were to seek additional capital in the future to fund growth of our operations or to maintain our regulatory capital above well-capitalized standards, there is no assurance we would be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing, or, if available, it will be obtainable in amounts and on terms attractive or acceptable to us. If we choose to raise equity 15 Table of Contents capital on unattractive terms, it could be highly dilutive to current shareholders. If we are unable to obtain the funding we need, we may be unable to develop our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to secure adequate funding; our use of wholesale funding sources and securitizations exposes us to potential liquidity risk. Our discontinued mortgage banking line of business was a net provider of liquidity to the Corporation. Our divestiture of this segment has caused us to seek alternative funding sources to contribute to our other lines of business, which sources might be more expensive than those previously used. Due to the sale of mortgage servicing rights and the loss of escrow deposits associated with those servicing rights, we have increased our reliance on wholesale funding, such as Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings and brokered deposits in recent quarters. Because wholesale funding sources are affected by general capital market conditions, the availability of funding from wholesale lenders may be dependent on the confidence these investors have in commercial and consumer finance businesses. We also have a significant deposit relationship with one of our commercial banking branches. While we have processes in place to monitor and mitigate these funding risks, the continued availability to us of these funding sources is uncertain, and we could be adversely impacted if our business segments become disfavored by wholesale lenders or large depositors. In addition, brokered deposits may be difficult for us to retain or replace at attractive rates as they mature. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loans or lease originations and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature. Historically, we have financed or sold the majority of our second mortgage loan originations into the secondary market through the use of securitizations. This market closed to all participants in the middle of 2007. We expect it to remain closed indefinitely. In addition, certain of our high loan-to-value home equity loans are not readily marketable, and we may not be able to sell assets at favorable prices when necessary. This could adversely affect our profitability and/or liquidity for future originations and purchases of loans. We have regulatory restrictions on our ability to receive dividends from bank subsidiaries. Irwin Union Bank and Trust may not, without the approval of the Federal Reserve and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, declare a dividend if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year, including the proposed dividend, exceeds the total of its net income for that year, combined with its retained net income of the preceding two years, less any required transfers to the surplus account. During the past two years, Irwin Union Bank and Trust dividends have exceeded net income during the same period. As a result, the bank cannot declare a dividend to us without regulatory approval until such time that current year earnings plus earnings from the last two years exceeds dividends during the same periods. We last sought and were granted such approval for a $15 million dividend in the second quarter of 2007, but similar responses to future requests are not guaranteed. We are mindful that the Federal Reserve has publicly expressed the belief that a bank holding company experiencing earnings weaknesses should not pay cash dividends (1) exceeding its net income or (2) which only could be funded in ways that would weaken a bank holding company’s financial health, such as by borrowing. Our Board of Directors has therefore elected to defer dividend payments on the Corporation’s trust preferred securities and elected to discontinue payment of dividends on its non-cumulative perpetual preferred and common stock. Our ability to pay dividends in the future depends on our ability to dividend from Irwin Union Bank and Trust to the Corporation, for which prior approval from our regulators and additional action by our Board of Directors will be necessary. We have credit risk inherent in our asset portfolios. In our businesses, some borrowers may not repay loans that we make to them. As all financial institutions do, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses and other reserves to absorb the level of losses that we think is probable in our portfolios. However, our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover the loan and lease losses that we actually may incur. While we maintain a reserve at a level management believes is adequate, our charge-offs could exceed these reserves. If we experience defaults by borrowers in any of our businesses to a greater extent than anticipated, our earnings could be negatively impacted. 16 Table of Contents Certain of our consumer mortgage products are not sold by many financial institutions. As a low-volume, niche-oriented originator, product design is important to differentiate us in consumer mortgage lending. We have developed our lines of business by identifying niches that we believe offer us a competitive opportunity. For this reason, the performance of our financial assets may be less predictable than those of other lenders. We may not have the same history of delinquency and loss experience to utilize in pricing and structuring some of our products as do lenders offering more seasoned asset types, and it may be more difficult to sell or securitize certain, more innovative, products. We rely heavily on our management team and key personnel, and the unexpected loss of key managers and personnel may affect our operations adversely. Our overall financial performance depends heavily on the performance of key managers and personnel. Our historical success was influenced strongly by our ability to attract and to retain senior management that is experienced in the niches within banking and financial services for which they are responsible. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams of each of our lines of business continues to be important to implement our strategies successfully. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated in persons affiliated with us. Our Chairman and CEO, William I. Miller, currently has voting control, including common shares beneficially held through employee stock options that are exercisable within 60 days of January 31, 2008, of approximately 38% of our common shares. Together with Mr. Miller, directors and executive officers of Irwin beneficially own, including the right to acquire common stock through employee stock options that are exercisable within 60 days of January 31, 2008, more than 40% of our common shares. These persons likely have the ability to substantially control the outcome of all shareholder votes and to direct our affairs and business. This voting power would enable them to cause actions to be taken that may prove to be inconsistent with the interests of non-affiliated shareholders. Our future success depends on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive financial services industry. The financial services industry, including commercial banking, mortgage lending, and commercial finance, is highly competitive, and we and our operating subsidiaries encounter strong competition for deposits, loans and other financial services in all of our market areas in each of our lines of business. Our principal competitors include other commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mutual funds, money market funds, finance companies, trust companies, insurers, leasing companies, credit unions, mortgage companies, real estate investment trusts (REITs), private issuers of debt obligations, and suppliers of other investment alternatives, such as securities firms. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we and our subsidiaries are and have advantages over us in providing certain services. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater access to capital and other resources, lower operating costs, and lower cost of funds. Also, our ability to compete effectively in our lines of business is dependent on our ability to adapt successfully to technological changes within the banking and financial services industry. Our shareholder rights plan, provisions in our restated articles of incorporation, our by-laws, and Indiana law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us by a third party. Our Board of Directors has implemented a shareholder rights plan which, combined with Indiana law, and absent the consent and approval of our Board, contain provisions which have certain anti-takeover effects. While the purpose of these plans is to strengthen the negotiating position of the Board in the event of a hostile takeover attempt, the overall effects of the plan may be to render more difficult or to discourage a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, the assumption of control by a holder of a larger block of our shares and the removal of incumbent directors and key management. If triggered, the rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us without approval of our Board of Directors, and under certain circumstances, the rights beneficially owned by the person or group may become void. The plan also may have the effect of limiting the participation of certain shareholders in transactions such as mergers or tender offers whether or not such transactions are favored by incumbent directors and key management. 17 Table of Contents Our restated articles of incorporation and our by-laws as well as Indiana law contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect your own representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. Our by-laws do not permit cumulative voting of shareholders in the election of directors, allowing the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares to control the election of all our directors. We have a staggered board which means that only one-third of our board can be replaced by shareholders at any annual meeting. Directors may not be removed by shareholders. As a result of his share ownership position, our Chairman, William I. Miller, will likely be able to exercise effective control over the outcome of any shareholder vote. Our by-laws also provide that only our Board of Directors, and not our shareholders, may adopt, alter, amend and repeal our by-laws. Indiana law provides several limitations that may discourage potential acquirers from purchasing our common shares. In particular, Indiana law prohibits business combinations with a person who acquires 10% or more of our common shares during the five-year period after the acquisition of 10% by that person or entity, unless the acquirer receives prior approval for the acquisition of the shares or business combination from our Board of Directors. These and other provisions of Indiana law and our governing documents are intended to provide the Board of Directors with the negotiating leverage to achieve a more favorable outcome for our shareholders in the event of an offer for the Company. However, there is no assurance that these same anti-takeover provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our shareholders. We are the defendant in class actions and other lawsuits that could subject us to material liability. Our subsidiaries have been named as defendants in lawsuits that allege we violated state and federal laws in the course of making loans and leases. Among the allegations are that we charged impermissible and excessive rates and fees and participated in fraudulent financing. Some of these cases either seek or have attained class action status, which generally involves a large number of plaintiffs and could result in potentially increased amounts of loss. We have not established reserves for all of these lawsuits due to either lack of probability of loss or inability to accurately estimate potential loss. If decided against us, the lawsuits have the potential to affect us materially. The Legal Proceedings section in Part I, Item 3 of this Report describes in more detail the lawsuits in which we are named as defendants that potentially could result in material liability. Our business may be affected adversely by Internet fraud. We are inherently exposed to many types of operational risk, including those caused by the use of computer, internet and telecommunications systems. These may manifest themselves in the form of fraud by employees, by customers, other outside entities targeting us and/or our customers that use our internet banking, electronic banking or some other form of our telecommunications systems. Given the growing level of use of electronic, internet-based, and networked systems to conduct business directly or indirectly with our clients, certain fraud losses may not be avoidable regardless of the preventative and detection systems in place. Our business may be affected adversely by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Our failure to comply with these requirements can lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions, termination or suspension of our licenses, rights of rescission for borrowers, and class action lawsuits. Legislation and regulations have had, may continue to have or may have significant impact on the financial services industry. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, causing us to change or limit some of our consumer loan products or the way we operate our different lines of business. Future changes could affect the profitability of some or all of our lines of business. Our subsidiary, Irwin Union Bank and Trust, entered into a memorandum of understanding, which is considered an informal agreement, with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago as of March 1, 2007 to enhance the consumer compliance function and compliance oversight programs of Irwin Union Bank and Trust and its subsidiaries. Irwin Union Bank and Trust agreed to and did provide quarterly written progress reports to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago with respect to these matters, through the required period ending September 30, 2007. We 18 Table of Contents believe we have been responsive in developing and implementing plans to address the issues raised by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. We are waiting for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago to perform a validation of the actions we took to address their concerns. However, if the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago concludes the actions we took are not sufficient, we could experience additional regulatory action. The consumer lending business in which we engage is highly regulated and has been the subject of increasing legislative and regulatory initiatives. Federal, state and local government agencies and/or legislators have adopted and continue to consider legislation to restrict lenders’ ability to charge rates and fees in connection with residential mortgage loans. In general, these proposals involve lowering the existing federal Homeownership and Equity Protection Act thresholds for defining a “high-cost” loan, and establishing enhanced protections and remedies for borrowers who receive these loans. Frequently referred to as “predatory lending” legislation, many of these laws and rules to which we are subject also restrict commonly accepted lending activities, such as offering balloon loan features and prepayment charges. These laws, regulations and initiatives have, and could further, limit our ability to originate consumer loans with various fees and what we believe are risk-based interest rates, and may impose additional regulatory restrictions on our business in certain states. Because we originate home equity loans from our banking branch in Nevada, federal law permits us to charge interest rates and certain fees associated with the interest rate permitted by Nevada law regardless of where the borrowers may reside. Nonetheless, from time to time regulators and customers from other states have questioned our ability to charge certain fees, such as prepayment penalties, to residents of their states. A change in federal or state law or regulation, or an adverse interpretation or decision by a court in litigation on this issue, may affect the rates and fees we charge on home equity loans made to borrowers outside Nevada. Our regulators have policies that can restrict the payment of cash dividends from our banking subsidiaries to us and from us to our shareholders. While we have paid dividends on our Trust Preferred, Non Cumulative Perpetual Preferred and common stock in the past, our Board has recently decided to suspend such payments. There is no certainty that we will resume such payments in the future. Like other registrants, we are subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to have in place adequate programs and procedures could cause us to have gaps in our internal control environment, putting the Corporation and its shareholders at risk of loss. These and other potential changes in government regulation or policies could increase our costs of doing business and could adversely affect our operations and the manner in which we conduct our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 