Item 1A. Risk Factors Casualty Insurance Underwriting and Reserves Casualty insurance liabilities are difficult to predict and may exceed the related reserves for losses and loss expenses. Although AIG annually reviews the adequacy of the established reserve for losses and loss expenses, there can be no assurance that AIG’s ultimate loss reserves will not develop adversely and materially exceed AIG’s current loss reserves. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a complex process for long-tail casualty lines of business, which include excess and umbrella liability, D&O, professional liability, medical malpractice, workers compensation, general liability, products liability and related classes, as well as for asbestos and environmental exposures. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to project future loss development. However, there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same as in the past. Moreover, any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be discernible for an extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the potential for reserves with respect to a number of years to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors that were relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other social or economic phenomena affecting claims. See also Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Operating Review — General Insurance Operations — Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses. Adjustments to Life Insurance & Retirement Services Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Interest rate fluctuations and other events may require AIG subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) which could adversely affect AIG’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. DAC represents the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts. When interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring AIG subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of DAC. To the extent such amortization exceeds surrender or other charges earned upon surrender and withdrawals of certain life insurance policies and annuity contracts, AIG’s results of operations could be negatively affected. DAC for both insurance-oriented and investment-oriented products as well as retirement services products is reviewed for recoverability, which involves estimating the future profitability of current business. This review involves significant management judgment. If the actual emergence of future profitability were to be substantially lower than estimated, AIG could be required to accelerate its DAC amortization and such acceleration could adversely affect AIG’s results of operations. See also Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates and Notes 1 and 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Reinsurance Reinsurance may not be available or affordable. AIG subsidiaries are major purchasers of reinsurance and utilize reinsurance as part of AIG’s overall risk management strategy. Reinsurance is an important risk management tool to manage transaction and insurance line risk retention, and to mitigate losses that may arise from catastrophes. Market conditions beyond AIG’s control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance purchased by AIG subsidiaries. For example, reinsurance may be more difficult to obtain after a year with a large number of major catastrophes. Accordingly, AIG may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, in which case AIG would have to accept an increase in exposure risk, reduce the amount of business written by its subsidiaries or seek alternatives. Reinsurance subjects AIG to the credit risk of its reinsurers and may not be adequate to protect AIG against losses. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to the AIG subsidiary to the extent the risk is ceded, it does not relieve the AIG subsidiary of the primary liability to its policyholders. Accordingly, AIG bears credit risk with respect to its subsidiaries’ reinsurers. A reinsurer’s insolvency or inability or refusal to make timely payments under the terms of its agreements with the AIG subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on AIG’s results of operations and liquidity. See also Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management — Reinsurance. A Material Weakness The remaining material weakness in AIG’s internal control over financial reporting relating to income tax accounting could affect the accuracy or timing of future regulatory filings. As of December 31, 2006, AIG’s management concluded that the material weakness relating to the controls over income tax accounting was not fully remediated. Remediation of this material weakness is ongoing. Until remediated, this weakness could affect the accuracy or timing of future filings with the SEC and other regulatory authorities. See also Item 9A. Controls and Procedures — Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Catastrophe Exposures The occurrence of catastrophic events could adversely affect AIG’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of events such as hurricanes, earthquakes, pandemic disease, acts of terrorism and other catastrophes could adversely affect AIG’s consolidated financial condition or results of Form 10-K 2006 AIG 15 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries operations, including by exposing AIG’s businesses to the following: • widespread claim costs associated with property, workers compensation, mortality and morbidity claims; • loss resulting from the cash flows from invested assets being less than the cash flows required to meet the policy and contract liabilities; or • loss resulting from the actual policy experience adversely emerging in comparison to the assumptions made in the product pricing associated with mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses. Legal Proceedings Significant legal proceedings adversely affected AIG’s results of operations in 2005. As a result of the settlements discussed below under Item 3. Legal Proceedings, AIG recorded an after-tax charge of approximately $1.15 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005. AIG is party to numerous other legal proceedings and regulatory investigations. It is possible that the effect of the unresolved matters could be material to AIG’s consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. For a discussion of these unresolved matters, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Regulation AIG is subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which it conducts its businesses. AIG’s operations around the world are subject to regulation by different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities, investment advisory, banking and thrift regulators in the United States and abroad. AIG’s operations have become more diverse and consumer-oriented, increasing the scope of regulatory supervision and the possibility of intervention. In particular, AIG’s consumer lending business is subject to a broad array of laws and regulations governing lending practices and permissible loan terms, and AIG would expect increased regulatory oversight relating to this business. The regulatory environment could have a significant effect on AIG and its businesses. Among other things, AIG could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of its business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on its business activities. Significant regulatory action against AIG could have material adverse financial effects, cause significant reputational harm, or harm business prospects. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to clients may also adversely affect AIG and its businesses. Foreign Operations Foreign operations expose AIG to risks that may affect its operations, liquidity and financial condition. AIG provides insurance and investment products and services to both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. A substantial portion of AIG’s General Insurance business and a majority of its Life Insurance & Retirement Services businesses are conducted outside the United States. Operations outside of the United States may be affected by regional economic downturns, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, political upheaval, nationalization and other restrictive government actions, which could also affect other AIG operations. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as the underwriting companies operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to AIG subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus, AIG’s insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. AIG’s international operations include operations in various developing nations. Both current and future foreign operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable political developments including tax changes, regulatory restrictions and nationalization of AIG’s operations without compensation. Adverse actions from any one country may adversely affect AIG’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition depending on the magnitude of the event and AIG’s net financial exposure at that time in that country. Information Technology A failure in AIG’s operational systems or infrastructure or those of third parties could disrupt business, damage AIG’s reputation and cause losses. AIG’s operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. AIG’s business depends on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data it uses to run its business. AIG’s ability to adequately price its products and services, establish reserves, provide effective and efficient service to its customers, and to timely and accurately report its financial results also depends significantly on the integrity of the data in its information systems. Although AIG takes protective measures and endeavors to modify them as circumstances warrant, its computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have security consequences. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize AIG’s or its clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, its computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in AIG’s, its clients’, its counterparties’ or third parties’ operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. AIG may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and AIG may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered by insurance maintained. Despite the contingency plans and facilities AIG has in place, its ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption of the infrastructure that supports AIG’s business in the communities in which it is located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by AIG. These disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events that affect only the buildings occupied by AIG or as a result of events 16 AIG 2006 Form 10-K American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries with a broader effect on the cities where those buildings are located. If a disruption occurs in one location and AIG’s employees in that location are unable to occupy its offices and conduct business or communicate with or travel to other locations, AIG’s ability to service and interact with its clients may suffer and it may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. AIG’s Credit Ratings Financial strength and credit ratings by major ratings agencies are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and other financial institutions and affect the availability and cost of borrowings. Any ratings downgrade may lessen AIG’s ability to compete in certain businesses and may increase AIG’s interest expense. Financial strength ratings measure an insurance company’s ability to meet its obligations to contract holders and policyholders, help to maintain public confidence in a company’s products, facilitate marketing of products and enhance a company’s competitive position. Credit ratings measure a company’s ability to repay its obligations and directly affect the cost and availability to that company of unsecured financing. Historically, AIG’s credit and financial strength ratings have provided AIG a competitive advantage. From March through June of 2005, the major rating agencies downgraded the ratings of AIG and its insurance subsidiaries in a series of actions. Many of the ratings were put on negative watch or negative outlook, which indicates a potential downgrade. Since then, however, the agencies have affirmed the ratings of AIG and all of its subsidiaries with a stable outlook, which indicates that the rating is not likely to change in the near term, except that S&P maintains a negative outlook on Transatlantic and on the senior long-term debt rating of ILFC. A downgrade of the credit or financial strength ratings of AIG or its subsidiaries could adversely affect AIG’s business and its consolidated results of operations in a number of ways, including: • increasing AIG’s interest expense; • reducing AIGFP’s ability to compete in the structured products and derivatives businesses; • reducing the competitive advantage of AIG’s insurance subsidiaries, which may result in reduced product sales and/or lower prices; • adversely affecting relationships with agents and sales representatives; and • in the case of a downgrade of AGF or ILFC, increasing their interest expense and reducing their ability to compete in their respective businesses. As a result of the downgrades in 2005 discussed above, AIG was required to post approximately $1.16 billion of collateral with counterparties to municipal guaranteed investment contracts and financial derivatives transactions. In the event of a further downgrade, AIG would be required to post additional collateral. It is estimated that, as of the close of business on February 15, 2007, based on AIG’s outstanding municipal GIAs and financial derivatives transactions as of such date, a further downgrade of AIG’s long-term senior debt ratings to Aa3 by Moody’s or AA- by S&P would permit counterparties to call for approximately $864 million of additional collateral. Further, additional downgrades could result in requirements for substantial additional collateral, which could have a material effect on how AIG manages its liquidity. For a further discussion of AIG’s credit ratings and the potential effect of posting collateral on AIG’s liquidity, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Resources and Liquidity — Credit Ratings and — Liquidity. Liquidity Liquidity risk represents the potential inability of AIG to meet all payment obligations when they become due. AIG’s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or by unforeseen significant outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances that AIG may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or AIG. AIG depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund payments on AIG’s obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit AIG’s ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from its subsidiaries. In particular, many of AIG’s subsidiaries, including AIG’s insurance subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder AIG’s ability to access funds that AIG may need to make payments on its obligations. See also Item 1. Business — Regulation. Some of AIG’s investments are relatively illiquid. AIG’s investments in certain fixed income investments, certain structured securities, direct private equities, limited partnerships, hedge funds and real estate are relatively illiquid. These asset classes represented nine percent of the carrying value of AIG’s total cash and invested assets as of December 31, 2006. If AIG requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements, AIG may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them for less than what AIG might otherwise have been able to, or both. Concentration of AIG’s investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects. The concentration of AIG’s investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on the investment portfolios and consequently on AIG’s results of operations and financial position. While AIG seeks to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than diversified. Further, AIG’s ability to sell assets relating to such particular industry, group of related industries or geographic region may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. Form 10-K 2006 AIG 17 American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries See also Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Resources and Liquidity — Liquidity. The Relationships Between AIG and the Starr Entities The relationships between AIG and the Starr entities may take an extended period of time to unwind and/or resolve, and the consequences of such resolution are uncertain. During 2006, AIG unwound and resolved its most significant relationships with C.V. Starr & Co, Inc. (Starr) and began unwinding and resolving various relationships with Starr International Company, Inc. (SICO). AIG cannot predict what its future relationship with Starr and SICO will be. The agency relationships between AIG subsidiaries and Starr have been terminated and litigation with Starr has been resolved, but there can be no assurance that AIG will compete successfully for the business previously produced by the Starr agencies. In January 2006, Starr announced that it had completed its tender offers to purchase interests in Starr and that all eligible shareholders had tendered their shares. As a result of completion of the tender offers, no AIG executive currently holds any Starr interest. AIG has entered into agreements pursuant to which AIG agrees, subject to certain conditions, to assure AIG’s current employees that all payments are made under a series of two-year Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plans provided by SICO (SICO Plans). For a further discussion of the SICO plans, see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that AIG will be able to effectively address the consequences for its executives of the unwinding of their participation in the SICO plans and programs. Finally, litigation between AIG and SICO remains pending, and the timing, terms and effect on AIG of any resolution cannot currently be predicted. See also Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Employee Error and Misconduct Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in significant losses. Losses may result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and AIG runs the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions AIG takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Aircraft Suppliers There are limited suppliers of aircraft and engines. The supply of jet transport aircraft, which ILFC purchases and leases, is dominated by two airframe manufacturers, Boeing and Airbus, and a limited number of engine manufacturers. As a result, ILFC is dependent on the manufacturers’ success in remaining financially stable, producing aircraft and related components which meet the airlines’ demands, both in type and quantity, and fulfilling their contractual obligations to ILFC. Competition between the manufacturers for market share is intense and may lead to instances of deep discounting for certain aircraft types and may negatively affect ILFC’s competitive pricing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of AIG’s fiscal year relating to AIG’s periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 