ITEM 1A. Risk Factors AIG’s Credit Ratings The downgrades in AIG’s credit ratings will increase AIG’s borrowing costs, may lessen AIG’s ability to compete in certain businesses and will require AIG to post additional collateral. From March through June of 2005, the major rating agencies downgraded AIG’s ratings in a series of actions. Standard & Poor’s, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (S&P), lowered the long-term senior debt and counterparty ratings of AIG from ‘AAA’ to ‘AA’ and changed the rating outlook to negative. Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) lowered AIG’s long-term senior debt rating from ‘Aaa’ to ‘Aa2’ and changed the outlook to stable. Fitch Ratings (Fitch) downgraded the long-term senior debt ratings of AIG from ‘AAA’ to ‘AA’ and placed the ratings on Rating Watch Negative. The agencies also took rating actions on AIG’s insurance subsidiaries. S&P and Fitch lowered to ‘AA+’ the insurance financial strength ratings of most of AIG’s insurance companies. Moody’s lowered the insurance financial strength ratings generally to either ‘Aa1’ or ‘Aa2’. A.M. Best downgraded the financial strength ratings for most of AIG’s insurance subsidiaries from ‘A++’ to ‘A+’ and the issuer credit ratings from ‘aa+’ to ‘aa-’. Many of these companies’ ratings remain on a negative watch. In addition, S&P changed the outlook on ILFC’s ‘AA-’ long-term senior debt rating to negative. Moody’s affirmed ILFC’s long-term and short-term senior debt ratings (‘A1’/‘P-1’). Fitch downgraded ILFC’s long-term senior debt rating from ‘AA-’ to ‘A+’ and placed the rating on Rating Watch Negative and downgraded ILFC’s short-term debt rating from ‘F1+’ to ‘F1’. Fitch also placed the ‘A+’ long-term senior debt ratings of American General Finance Corporation and American General Finance, Inc. on Rating Watch Negative. S&P and Moody’s affirmed the long-term and short-term senior debt ratings of American General Finance Corporation at ‘A+’/‘A-1’ and ‘A1’/‘P-1’, respectively. These debt and financial strength ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at AIG management’s request. This discussion of ratings is not a complete list of ratings of AIG and its subsidiaries. 14 AIG - Form 10-K AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES These ratings actions have affected and will continue to affect AIG’s business and results of operations in a number of ways. - Downgrades in AIG’s debt ratings will adversely affect AIG’s results of operations. AIG relies on external sources of financing to fund several of its operations. The cost and availability of unsecured financing are generally dependent on the issuer’s long-term and short-term debt ratings. These downgrades and any future downgrades in AIG’s debt ratings may adversely affect AIG’s borrowing costs and therefore adversely affect AIG’s results of operations. - The downgrade in AIG’s long-term senior debt ratings will adversely affect AIGFP’s ability to compete for certain businesses. Credit ratings are very important to the ability of financial institutions to compete in the derivative and structured transaction marketplaces. Historically, AIG’s triple-A ratings provided AIGFP a competitive advantage. The downgrades have reduced this advantage and, for specialized financial transactions that generally are conducted only by triple-A rated financial institutions, counterparties may be unwilling to transact business with AIGFP except on a secured basis. This could require AIGFP to post more collateral to counterparties in the future. See below for a further discussion of the effect that posting collateral may have on AIG’s liquidity. - Although the financial strength ratings of AIG’s insurance company subsidiaries remain high compared to many of their competitors, the downgrades have reduced the previous ratings differential. The competitive advantage of the ratings to AIG’s insurance company subsidiaries may be lessened accordingly. - As a result of the downgrades of AIG’s long-term senior debt ratings, AIG was required to post approximately $1.16 billion of collateral with counterparties to municipal guaranteed investment contracts and financial derivatives transactions. In the event of a further downgrade, AIG will be required to post additional collateral. It is estimated that, as of the close of business on February 28, 2006 based on AIG’s outstanding municipal guaranteed investment agreements and financial derivatives transactions as of such date, a further downgrade of AIG’s long-term senior debt ratings to ‘Aa3’ by Moody’s or ‘AA-’ by S&P would permit counterparties to call for approximately $962 million of additional collateral. Further, additional downgrades could result in requirements for substantial additional collateral, which could have a material effect on how AIG manages its liquidity. The actual amount of additional collateral that AIG would be required to post to counterparties in the event of such downgrades depends on market conditions, the market value of the outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time of the downgrade. Any additional obligations to post collateral will increase the demand on AIG’s liquidity. Regulatory Investigations Significant legal proceedings have adversely affected AIG’s results of operations for 2005. As a result of the settlements discussed below under Item 3. Legal Proceedings, AIG recorded an after-tax charge of approximately $1.15 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005. AIG is party to numerous other legal proceedings and regulatory investigations. It is possible that the effect of the unresolved matters could be material to AIG’s consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. For a discussion of these unresolved matters, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Significant investigations into AIG’s business are continuing and the commencement of additional investigations is possible. Broad-ranging investigations into AIG’s business practices continue. These investigations are being conducted by a number of regulators, and related actions by regulators both within and outside the United States may be undertaken in response. The review of large amounts of information by various regulatory authorities may result in the commencement of new areas of inquiry and, possibly, new significant legal proceedings. The Relationships Between AIG and Starr and SICO The relationships between AIG and Starr and SICO may take an extended period of time to unwind and/or resolve, and the consequences of such resolution are uncertain. Although AIG is currently working on unwinding and resolving its relationships with C.V. Starr & Co, Inc. (Starr) and Starr International Company, Inc. (SICO), AIG cannot predict what its future relationship with Starr and SICO will be. AIG subsidiaries are in the process of terminating their agency relationships with the Starr agencies and are beginning to write the business previously produced by those agencies on a direct basis. AIG also continues to address the issues posed by compensation plans and programs previously provided to AIG executives by Starr and SICO, as AIG is providing compensation programs that recognize those plans and programs. In January 2006, Starr announced that it had completed its tender offers to purchase interests in Starr and that all eligible shareholders had tendered their shares. As a result of completion of the tender offers, no AIG executive currently holds any Starr interest. AIG has entered into agreements pursuant to which AIG agrees, subject to certain conditions, to assure AIG’s current employees that all payments are made under a series of two-year Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plans provided by SICO (SICO Plans). See Note 12(f) and Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that AIG will be able to effectively address the consequences for its executives of the unwinding of their participation in the Starr and SICO plans and programs. Nor can there be any assurance that AIG will compete successfully for the business previously produced by the Starr agencies. Finally, litigation between AIG and Starr and SICO remains pending, and the timing and terms of any resolution cannot currently be predicted. As a result of the foregoing, there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of AIG’s relationships with Starr and SICO will not be adverse to AIG. For further information about litigation between AIG and Starr and SICO, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. AIG - Form 10-K 15 Certain Material Weaknesses Management identified three remaining material weaknesses in AIG’s internal control over financial reporting. Remediation of these material weaknesses is ongoing. Until these weaknesses are remediated, the weaknesses could affect the accuracy or timing of future filings with the SEC and other regulatory authorities. A discussion of these material weaknesses and AIG’s remediation efforts can be found in Item 9A of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Access to Capital Markets AIG’s access to the U.S. public capital markets may be delayed by the SEC registration process. Although AIG is able to access the Rule 144A and Euro markets, AIG will be unable to access the U.S. public securities markets until it has filed and the SEC has declared effective a new registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933. Depending upon the SEC’s review of these filings, this process may take several months or more. Unless relief is granted by the SEC, AIG will not be able to avail itself of certain favorable provisions of the Securities Act. AIG will not, for a period of three years, be a “well-known seasoned issuer”. During this period, AIG’s ability to communicate with respect to new product offerings and to structure client products will be more limited than they otherwise would. In addition, during this period, AIG will not be able to avail itself of provisions that allow for an automatically effective shelf registration statement or rely on the “forward-looking statements” safe harbor under the securities laws in providing forward-looking information to investors. Foreign Operations Foreign operations expose AIG to risks that may affect its operations, liquidity and financial conditions. AIG provides insurance and investment products and services to both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. A substantial portion of AIG’s General Insurance business and a majority of its Life Insurance & Retirement Services businesses are conducted outside the United States. Operations outside of the United States may be affected by regional economic downturns, political upheaval, nationalization and other restrictive government actions, which could also affect other AIG operations. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as the underwriting companies operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to AIG subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus, AIG’s insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. AIG’s international operations include operations in various developing nations. Both current and future foreign operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable political developments including tax changes, regulatory restrictions and nationalization of AIG’s operations without compensation. Adverse affects resulting from any one country may affect AIG’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition depending on the magnitude of the event and AIG’s net financial exposure at that time in that country. Liquidity Payments from subsidiaries may be limited by regulators. AIG depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from AIG’s subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund payments on AIG’s obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit AIG’s ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from AIG’s subsidiaries. In particular, many of AIG’s subsidiaries, including AIG’s insurance subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfer altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder AIG’s ability to access funds that AIG may need to make payments on AIG’s obligations. Regulation AIG is subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which it conducts its businesses. AIG’s operations around the world are subject to regulation by different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities, investment advisory, banking and thrift regulators in the United States and abroad. AIG’s operations have become more diverse and consumer-oriented, increasing the scope of regulatory supervision and the possibility of intervention. In particular, AIG’s consumer lending business is subject to a broad array of laws and regulations governing lending practices and permissible loan terms, and AIG would expect increased regulatory oversight relating to this business. The regulatory environment could have a significant effect on AIG and its businesses. Among other things, AIG could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of its business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on its business activities. Significant regulatory action against AIG could have material adverse financial effects, cause significant reputational harm, or harm business prospects. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to clients may also adversely affect AIG and its businesses. See Item 1. Business — “Regulation.” 16 AIG - Form 10-K AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Casualty Insurance Underwriting and Reserves Casualty insurance liabilities are difficult to predict and may exceed the related reserves for losses and loss expenses. Although AIG annually reviews the adequacy of the established reserve for losses and loss expenses, there can be no assurance that AIG’s ultimate loss reserves will not develop adversely and materially exceed AIG’s current loss reserves. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a complex process for long-tail casualty lines of business, which include excess and umbrella liability, D&O, professional liability, medical malpractice, workers compensation, general liability, products liability and related classes, as well as for asbestos and environmental exposures. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to project future loss development. However, there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same as in the past. Moreover, any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be discernible for an extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the potential for reserves with respect to a number of years to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors that were relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss trends or loss development factors could be attributable to changes in inflation in labor and material costs or in the judicial environment, or in other social or economic phenomena affecting claims. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Operating Review — Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses.” Natural Disasters and Pandemic Diseases Natural disasters and pandemic disease could adversely affect AIG’s operating results. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other catastrophes have the potential to adversely affect AIG’s operating results. Other risks, such as an outbreak of a pandemic disease, such as the Avian Influenza A Virus (H5N1), could adversely affect AIG’s business and operating results to an extent that may be only minimally offset by reinsurance programs. While to date outbreaks of the Avian Flu continue to occur among poultry or wild birds in a number of countries in Asia, parts of Europe, and recently in Africa, transmission to humans has been rare. If the virus mutates to a form that can be transmitted from human to human, it has the potential to spread rapidly worldwide. If such an outbreak were to take place, early quarantine and vaccination could be critical to containment. Both the contagion and mortality rate of any mutated H5N1 virus that can be transmitted from human to human are highly speculative. AIG continues to monitor the developing facts. A significant global outbreak could have a material adverse effect on AIG’s life insurance business operating results and liquidity from increased mortality and morbidity rates. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of AIG’s fiscal year relating to AIG’s periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). 