Item 1A. Risk Factors AIG has been significantly and adversely affected by the market turmoil in late 2008 and early 2009, and, despite the recovery in the markets in mid and late 2009, is subject to significant risks, as discussed below. Many of these risks are interrelated and occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence, or exacerbate the effect, of others. Such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact on AIG. As a result, should certain of these risks emerge, AIG may need additional support from the U.S. government. Without additional support from the U.S. government, in the future there could exist substantial doubt about AIG's ability to continue as a going concern. See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Consideration of AIG's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion. Since September 2008, AIG has been working to protect and enhance the value of its key businesses, to execute an orderly asset disposition plan and to position itself for the future, with the primary goal of enabling it to repay U.S. taxpayers for the support it has received. AIG's efforts have been and continue to be subject to risks, the most significant of which are the following: Execution of Restructuring Plan A number of factors outside AIG's control could impair AIG's ability to implement its asset disposition plan, which is a critical component of AIG's plan to repay U.S. taxpayers for the support provided under the Credit Facility (FRBNY Credit Facility) provided by the FRBNY under the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2008 (as amended, the FRBNY 17 AIG 2009 Form 10-K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Credit Agreement), and the TARP preferred stock issued to the Department of the Treasury. AIG's asset disposition plan could be adversely affected by an inability to complete asset dispositions due to, among other things: •an inability of purchasers to obtain funding; •a general unwillingness of potential buyers to commit capital; •an adverse change in interest rates and borrowing costs; and •declines in AIG asset values and deterioration in its businesses. Further, AIG may be unable to negotiate favorable terms in connection with asset sales, including with respect to price. As a result, AIG may need to modify its asset disposition plan to sell additional or different assets. As part of its restructuring efforts, AIG may need to materially alter its capital structure. In connection with its restructuring efforts, AIG may need to materially alter its current capital structure. This could include the issuance of additional shares of AIG common stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock) or other equity securities that may dilute, perhaps significantly, the current holders of AIG Common Stock. The complexity of executing AIG's asset disposition plan, combined with the challenges of operating AIG's businesses in the current environment, could place further stress on AIG's internal controls, increase AIG's costs and divert the attention of AIG management and employees from their normal duties. The execution of AIG's asset disposition plan has introduced a large number of complex and non-standard transactions which are placing a strain on existing resources, systems and communication channels. Furthermore, AIG's employees are operating in an environment where the frequency and uncertainty of developments could decrease the attention devoted to internal controls over financial reporting. Although AIG is taking steps to mitigate these risks, including through the use of third party consultants and advance planning, it is possible that these risks could delay AIG from preparing timely financial statements and making required filings in a timely manner, and otherwise adversely affect AIG's internal controls over financial reporting. The restructuring of AIG's businesses is a complex undertaking requiring the creation of standalone infrastructure and systems at certain subsidiaries. The duplication of infrastructure and systems will continue to increase AIG's costs. Highly Leveraged Capital Structure AIG has a highly leveraged capital structure and has significant preferred stock outstanding. As of December 31, 2009, AIG had approximately $141.5 billion of consolidated indebtedness, including $23.4 billion and $4.7 billion outstanding under the FRBNY Credit Facility (all of which is secured indebtedness) and the FRBNY Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF), respectively. In addition, as of the same date, AIG had $41.6 billion and $5.3 billion aggregate liquidation preference of AIG Series E Preferred Stock and AIG Series F Preferred Stock, respectively. The market capitalization of the AIG Common Stock was $4.0 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $3.6 billion at February 17, 2010. This highly leveraged capital structure may have several important consequences on AIG's future operations, including, but not limited to: •The obligations of AIG under the AIG Series E Preferred Stock and AIG Series F Preferred Stock are significantly in excess of the market capitalization of the AIG Common Stock, and, in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of AIG, all of these preferred stock obligations would have to be paid before any payment could be made on the AIG Common Stock. Moreover, AIG may make further drawdowns on the commitment of the Department of the Treasury under the AIG Series F Preferred Stock (the Department of the Treasury Commitment) and thereby increase its preferred stock obligations. •AIG does not anticipate paying dividends on the AIG Common Stock in the foreseeable future. •The trading market for the AIG Common Stock has been extremely volatile and this volatility may continue for the foreseeable future. AIG 2009 Form 10-K 18 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Liquidity AIG parent's ability to access funds from its subsidiaries is limited. As a holding company, AIG parent depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund payments due on AIG's obligations, including its outstanding debt. Further, the majority of AIG's investments are held by its regulated subsidiaries. In light of AIG's current financial situation and the retained deficit resulting from the losses recorded in recent quarters, certain of AIG's regulated subsidiaries have been restricted from making dividend payments, or advancing funds, to AIG, and AIG expects these restrictions to continue. In the case of subsidiaries not currently subject to these restrictions, these subsidiaries may be limited in their ability to make dividend payments or advance funds to AIG in the future because of the need to support their own capital levels. In addition, in connection with the execution of the purchase agreement between AIG and AIRCO and the FRBNY, dated June 25, 2009 (AIA Purchase Agreement), and the purchase agreement between AIG and the FRBNY, dated June 25, 2009 (ALICO Purchase Agreement), on December 1, 2009, AIG, the FRBNY and each special purpose vehicle (SPV) entered into limited liability company agreements, which set forth the terms and conditions of the respective parties' ownership and governance rights in each SPV. Under the terms of these agreements, the AIA SPV and the ALICO SPV may only distribute funds to AIG parent (prior to the payment of the preferred returns and liquidation preferences on the preferred interests in each respective SPV and, in the case of the AIA SPV, a payment of 1 percent of the net income of the AIA SPV to the holders of the preferred interests in the AIA SPV for all fiscal years prior to payment of the preferred return and liquidation preference) in an aggregate amount not to exceed $200 million and $400 million, respectively, per fiscal year. These factors may hinder AIG's ability to access funds that AIG parent may need to make payments on its obligations, including those arising from day-to-day business activities. AIG parent's ability to support its subsidiaries is limited. Historically, AIG has provided capital and liquidity to its subsidiaries to maintain regulatory capital ratios, comply with rating agency requirements and meet unexpected cash flow obligations. More recently, AIG has relied on the FRBNY Credit Facility and the Department of the Treasury Commitment to meet these needs, given AIG's inability to access its traditional sources of liquidity, including the public debt markets, since the third quarter of 2008. AIG's current limited access to liquidity may reduce or prevent AIG from providing support to its subsidiaries. If AIG is unable to provide support to a subsidiary having an immediate capital or liquidity need, the subsidiary could become insolvent or, in the case of an insurance subsidiary or other regulated entity, could be seized by its regulator. Certain of the investments held by AIG's subsidiaries are illiquid and/or are difficult to sell, or to sell in significant amounts or at acceptable prices, to generate cash to meet their needs. AIG's subsidiaries' investments in certain securities, including certain fixed income securities and certain structured securities, private equity securities, investment partnerships, mortgage loans, flight equipment, finance receivables and real estate are illiquid or may not be disposed of quickly. These asset classes represented approximately 23 percent of the carrying value of AIG's total consolidated cash and invested assets at December 31, 2009. In addition, the steep decline in the U.S. real estate market and tight credit markets have materially adversely affected the liquidity of other AIG securities portfolios, including its residential and commercial mortgage-related securities and investment portfolios. In the event additional liquidity is required by one or more AIG subsidiaries beyond what can be provided through cash generated by operations or the sale or monetization of their more liquid assets, it may be difficult to generate additional liquidity by selling, pledging or otherwise monetizing the less liquid investments described above. Credit and Financial Strength Ratings Adverse ratings actions regarding AIG's long-term debt ratings by the major rating agencies would require AIG to post a substantial amount of additional collateral payments pursuant to, and/or permit the termination of, derivative transactions to which AIGFP is a party, which could further adversely affect AIG's business and its consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Additional obligations to post collateral or the costs of assignment, termination or obtaining alternative credit could significantly reduce the amounts then available under the FRBNY Credit Facility and the Department of the Treasury Commitment. Credit ratings estimate a company's ability to meet its obligations and may 19 AIG 2009 Form 10-K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries directly affect the cost and availability to that company of unsecured financing. In the event of a further downgrade of AIG's long-term senior debt ratings, AIGFP would be required to post additional collateral, and certain of AIGFP's counterparties would be permitted to elect early termination of contracts. For a further discussion of AIG's liquidity, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Resources and Liquidity — Liquidity. It is estimated that as of the close of business on February 17, 2010, based on AIG's outstanding financial derivative transactions, including those of AIGFP at that date, a one-notch downgrade of AIG's long-term senior debt ratings to Baa1 by Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) and BBB+ by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC, a subsidiary of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (S&P), would permit counterparties to make additional collateral calls and permit the counterparties to elect early termination of contracts, resulting in up to approximately $1.8 billion of corresponding collateral postings and termination payments; a two-notch downgrade to Baa2 by Moody's and BBB by S&P would result in approximately $1.4 billion in additional collateral postings and termination payments above the one-notch downgrade amount; and a three-notch downgrade to Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S&P would result in approximately $0.3 billion in additional collateral postings and termination payments above the two-notch downgrade amount. Additional collateral postings upon downgrade are estimated based on the factors in the individual collateral posting provisions of the Credit Support Annex (CSA) with each counterparty and current exposure as of February 17, 2010. Factors considered in estimating the termination payments upon downgrade include current market conditions, the complexity of the derivative transactions, historical termination experience and other observable market events such as bankruptcy and downgrade events that have occurred at other companies. The actual termination payments could significantly differ from management's estimates given market conditions at the time of downgrade and the level of uncertainty in estimating both the number of counterparties who may elect to exercise their right to terminate and the payment that may be triggered in connection with any such exercise. Adverse rating actions could result in further reductions in credit limits extended to AIG and in a decline in the number of counterparties willing to transact with AIG or its subsidiaries. To appropriately manage risk, AIG needs trading counterparties willing to extend sufficient credit limits to purchase and sell securities, commodities and other assets, as well as to conduct hedging activities. To the extent that counterparties are unwilling to trade with or to extend adequate credit limits to AIG or its subsidiaries, AIG could be exposed to open positions or other unhedged risks, resulting in increased volatility of results and increased losses. A downgrade in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of AIG's insurance companies could prevent the companies from writing new business and retaining customers and business. Insurer Financial Strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Insurer Financial Strength ratings measure an insurance company's ability to meet its obligations to contract holders and policyholders, help maintain public confidence in a company's products, facilitate marketing of products and enhance a company's competitive position. Further downgrades of the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of AIG's insurance companies may prevent these companies from offering products and services or result in increased policy cancellations or termination of assumed reinsurance contracts. Moreover, a downgrade in AIG's credit ratings may, under credit rating agency policies concerning the relationship between parent and subsidiary ratings, result in a downgrade of the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of AIG's insurance subsidiaries. FRBNY Credit Facility The FRBNY Credit Agreement requires AIG to devote significant resources to debt repayment for the foreseeable future, thereby significantly reducing capital available for other purposes. AIG is required to repay the five-year FRBNY Credit Facility primarily using the proceeds from sales of assets, including businesses. Unless otherwise agreed by the FRBNY, the amount available under the FRBNY Credit Facility is generally permanently reduced by the amount of the net cash proceeds from asset dispositions. AIG's significant obligations require it to dedicate all of its net cash proceeds from asset dispositions and a considerable portion of its cash flows from operations to the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility, thereby AIG 2009 Form 10-K 20 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries reducing the funds available for investment in its businesses. Moreover, because AIG's debt service obligations are very high, AIG may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures and have less flexibility to plan for or respond to changing business and economic conditions. AIG must sell or otherwise dispose of significant assets to service the debt under the FRBNY Credit Facility. AIG must make asset dispositions to repay the borrowings under the FRBNY Credit Facility. A continued delay or inability to effect these dispositions at acceptable prices and on acceptable terms could result in AIG being unable to repay the FRBNY Credit Facility by its maturity date. If AIG is not able to repay the FRBNY Credit Facility from the proceeds of asset dispositions and cannot otherwise repay the FRBNY Credit Facility in accordance with its terms, an event of default would result. In such an event, the FRBNY could enforce its security interest in AIG's pledged collateral. In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under the FRBNY Credit Agreement could also result in an event of default under other agreements. In such an event, AIG would likely not have sufficient liquid assets to meet its obligations under such agreements and could become insolvent. Borrowings available to AIG under the FRBNY Credit Facility and drawdowns under the Department of the Treasury Commitment may not be sufficient to meet AIG's funding needs and additional financing may not be available or could be prohibitively expensive. The inability of AGF or ILFC to raise sufficient liquidity to meet their obligations without support from AIG, additional collateral calls, deterioration in investment portfolios affecting statutory surplus, high surrenders of annuity and other policies, further downgrades in AIG's credit ratings, catastrophe losses or reserve strengthening, or a further deterioration in AIGFP's remaining super senior credit default swap portfolio could cause AIG to require additional funding in excess of the borrowings available under the FRBNY Credit Facility and available drawdowns on the Department of the Treasury Commitment. In that event, AIG would be required to find additional financing and new financing sources. Such financing could be difficult, if not impossible, to obtain and, if available, very expensive, and additional funding from the FRBNY, the Department of the Treasury or other government sources may not be available. If AIG is unable to obtain sufficient financing to meet its capital needs, AIG could become insolvent. The FRBNY Credit Agreement includes financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on AIG's financial and business operations. The FRBNY Credit Agreement requires AIG to maintain a minimum aggregate liquidity level and restricts AIG's ability to make certain capital expenditures. The FRBNY Credit Agreement also restricts the ability of AIG parent and its restricted subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, incur liens, merge, consolidate, sell assets, enter into hedging transactions outside the normal course of business, or pay dividends. These covenants could restrict AIG's business and thereby adversely affect AIG's results of operations. Moreover, if AIG fails to comply with the covenants in the FRBNY Credit Agreement and is unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result. If an event of default were to occur, the FRBNY could, among other things, declare outstanding borrowings under the FRBNY Credit Agreement immediately due and payable and enforce its security interest in AIG's pledged collateral. In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under the FRBNY Credit Agreement could also result in an event of default under AIG's other agreements. In such an event, AIG would likely not have sufficient liquid assets to meet its obligations under such agreements and could become insolvent. Controlling Shareholder The AIG Credit Facility Trust, a trust for the sole benefit of the United States Treasury, which is overseen by three trustees, holds a controlling interest in AIG. AIG's interests and those of AIG's minority shareholders may not be the same as those of the Trust or the United States Treasury. In accordance with the FRBNY Credit Agreement, in early March 2009, AIG issued 100,000 shares of the AIG Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (AIG Series C Preferred Stock) to the Trust, a trust for the sole benefit of the United States Treasury 21 AIG 2009 Form 10-K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries established under the AIG Credit Facility Trust Agreement dated as of January 16, 2009 (as it may be amended from time to time, the Trust Agreement). The AIG Series C Preferred Stock is entitled to: •participate in any dividends paid on AIG's Common Stock, with the payments attributable to the AIG Series C Preferred Stock being approximately 79.8 percent of the aggregate dividends paid on AIG's Common Stock, treating the AIG Series C Preferred Stock as converted; and •to the extent permitted by law, vote with AIG's Common Stock on all matters submitted to AIG's shareholders and hold approximately 79.8 percent of the aggregate voting power of AIG's Common Stock, treating the AIG Series C Preferred Stock as converted. The AIG Series C Preferred Stock will remain outstanding even if the FRBNY Credit Facility is repaid in full or otherwise terminates. In addition, upon shareholder approval and the filing with the Delaware Secretary of State of certain amendments to AIG's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Trust will be able to convert at its option all or a portion of the AIG Series C Preferred Stock into shares of AIG's Common Stock. As a result of its ownership of the AIG Series C Preferred Stock, the Trust is able, subject to the terms of the Trust Agreement and the AIG Series C Preferred Stock, to elect all of AIG's directors and will be able, to the extent permitted by law, to control the vote on substantially all matters, including: •approval of mergers or other business combinations; •a sale of all or substantially all of AIG's assets; •issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities; and •other matters that might be favorable to the United States Treasury, but not to AIG's other shareholders. Moreover, the Trust's ability to cause or prevent a change in control of AIG could also have an adverse effect on the market price of AIG's Common Stock. The Trust may also, subject to the terms of the Trust Agreement and applicable securities laws, transfer all, or a portion of, the AIG Series C Preferred Stock to another person or entity and, in the event of such a transfer, that person or entity could become the controlling shareholder. Possible future sales of AIG Series C Preferred Stock or common stock by the Trust could adversely affect the market for AIG Common Stock. Pursuant to the AIG Series C Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2009 (the AIG Series C Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement), between the Trust and AIG, AIG has agreed to file a shelf registration statement that will allow the Trust to publicly sell AIG Series C Preferred Stock or any shares of AIG's Common Stock it receives upon conversion of the AIG Series C Preferred Stock. In addition, the Trust could sell AIG Series C Preferred Stock or shares of AIG's Common Stock without registration under certain circumstances, such as in a private transaction. Although AIG can make no prediction as to the effect, if any, that such sales would have on the market price of AIG's Common Stock, sales of substantial amounts of AIG Series C Preferred Stock or AIG's Common Stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of AIG's Common Stock. If the Trust sells or transfers shares of AIG Series C Preferred Stock or AIG's Common Stock as a block, another person or entity could become AIG's controlling shareholder. Market Conditions AIG's businesses, consolidated results of operations and financial condition have been and may continue to be materially and adversely affected by market conditions. AIG's businesses are highly dependent on the business environment in which they operate. In 2008 and through early 2009, the significant deterioration in worldwide economic conditions materially and adversely affected AIG's businesses. The global financial crisis resulted in a serious lack of liquidity, highly volatile markets, a steep depreciation in asset values across all classes, an erosion of investor and public confidence, a widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency in many markets and the collapse or merger of several prominent financial institutions. Difficult economic conditions also resulted in increased unemployment and a severe decline in business activity across a wide range of industries and regions. While the markets and the business AIG 2009 Form 10-K 22 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries environment have generally stabilized and improved in mid and late 2009, asset values for many asset classes have not returned to previous levels and business, and financial and economic conditions, particularly unemployment levels, lending activities and the housing markets, continue to be negatively affected. There can be no assurance that the conditions supporting the recent recovery will continue in the near or long term. If they do not, AIG may be negatively affected in a number of ways, including: •declines in the valuation and performance of its investment portfolio; •unrealized market valuation losses on its super senior credit default swap portfolio; •an inability to implement its asset disposition program, as discussed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Resources and Liquidity — AIG's Strategy for Stabilization and Repayment of its Obligations as They Come Due — Asset Disposition Plan; •increased credit losses; •impairments of goodwill and other long-lived assets; •an increase in the valuation allowance relating to its deferred tax asset; •a decline in new business levels; •an increase in policy surrenders and cancellations; •a writeoff of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC); and •the ability of current or potential contractual counterparties to execute transactions that are part of AIG's asset disposition plans. Reputational Harm Adverse publicity and public reaction to events concerning AIG has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on AIG. Since September 2008, AIG has been the subject of intense scrutiny and extensive comment by the global news media and segments of the public at large in the communities that AIG serves. At times, there has been strong criticism of actions taken by AIG, its management and its employees and of transactions in which AIG has engaged. In a few instances, such as the public reaction over the payment of retention awards to AIGFP employees, this criticism has included harassment of individual AIG employees and public protest affecting AIG facilities. This scrutiny and extensive commentary have adversely affected AIG by damaging AIG's business, reputation and brand among current and potential customers, agents and other distributors of AIG products and services, thereby reducing sales of AIG products and services, and resulting in an increase in AIG policyholder surrenders and non-renewals of AIG policies. This scrutiny and commentary have also undermined employee morale and AIG's ability to motivate and retain its employees. If this level of criticism continues or increases, AIG's business may be further adversely affected and its ability to retain and motivate employees further harmed. Employees The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and the restrictions placed on compensation by the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation, may adversely affect AIG's ability to retain and motivate its highest performing employees. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act) contains restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the five executives named in a company's proxy statement and the next twenty highest paid employees of companies receiving TARP funds. Pursuant to the Recovery Act, the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation (Special Master) issued Determination Memorandum with respect to AIG's named executive officers (except for the Chief Executive Officer) and twenty highest paid employees, and reviewed AIG's compensation arrangements for its next 75 most highly compensated employees and issued a Determination Memorandum on their compensation structures, which 23 AIG 2009 Form 10-K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries placed significant new restrictions on their compensation as well. Historically, AIG has embraced a pay-for-performance philosophy. Based on the limitations placed on incentive compensation by the Determination Memoranda issued by the Special Master, it is unclear whether, for the foreseeable future, AIG will be able to create a compensation structure that permits AIG to retain and motivate its most senior and most highly compensated employees and other high performing employees who become subject to the purview of the Special Master. An inability of AIG to retain and motivate its highest performing employees may affect its ability to stabilize its businesses, execute its asset disposition and restructuring activities and prepare and make required filings in a timely manner with the SEC and other federal, state and foreign regulators. A loss of key AIGFP employees could prevent an orderly wind-down of AIGFP's businesses and portfolios, lead to potentially significant losses and could adversely affect AIG's internal control over financial reporting. In light of, among other things, the negative publicity surrounding the retention payments to AIGFP employees, a number of key employees have left AIGFP. Moreover, substantially all of the last installment of the AIGFP retention awards has been paid. Going forward, the lack of further retention incentives may adversely affect AIG's ability to retain AIGFP personnel to complete the process of unwinding AIGFP's businesses. While AIGFP continues to wind down its business in an orderly manner, the loss of additional key employees could adversely affect AIG's ability to effectively wind down AIGFP and AIG's internal control over financial reporting, notwithstanding the additional consulting resources retained at AIGFP during 2009. Although AIG views the large-market risk books at AIGFP as generally well hedged, except for credit risk, maintaining the hedges requires continuous monitoring and adjustment. If AIGFP loses the key employees who are familiar with and know how to hedge these positions, gaps in hedging could result in significant losses to AIGFP. AIG relies upon the knowledge and experience of the AIGFP employees involved in the financial reporting process for the effective and timely preparation of required filings and financial statements and operation of internal controls. In addition, AIGFP's portfolios contain a significant number of complex transactions that are difficult to understand and manage. It would not be practical to replace all the key AIGFP traders and risk managers who oversee these complex transactions if these employees were to leave AIGFP. Personal knowledge of these trades and the unique systems at AIGFP is critical to an effective wind-down of AIGFP's businesses and portfolios. Furthermore, in the current economic environment, any perceived disruption in AIGFP's ability to conduct business, such as one that would result from the departure of these key employees, could cause parties to limit or cease trading with AIGFP, which would further adversely affect AIGFP's ability to cost-effectively hedge its positions and its effort to wind down its businesses and portfolios. Because of the decline in the value of equity awards previously granted to employees, and the uncertainty surrounding AIG's asset disposition program, AIG may be unable to retain key employees. AIG relies upon the knowledge and talent of its employees to successfully conduct business. The decline in AIG's Common Stock price has dramatically reduced the value of equity awards previously granted to its key employees. Also, the announcement of proposed asset dispositions has resulted in competitors seeking to hire AIG's key employees. Retention programs have assisted AIG in keeping key employees, but there can be no assurance that newly adopted compensation programs will provide similar retentive benefits. A loss of key employees could reduce the value of AIG's businesses and impair its ability to effect a successful restructuring plan. A loss of key employees in AIG's financial reporting process could prevent AIG from making required filings and preparing financial statements on a timely basis and otherwise could adversely affect its internal controls. AIG relies upon the knowledge and experience of the employees involved in the financial reporting process for the effective and timely preparation of required filings and financial statements and operation of internal controls. If these employees depart, AIG may not be able to replace them with individuals having comparable knowledge and experience. Retention programs have assisted AIG in keeping key employees, but there can be no assurance that newly adopted compensation programs will provide similar retentive benefits. Conflicts of interest may arise as AIG implements its asset disposition plan. AIG relies on certain key employees to operate its businesses during the asset disposition period, to provide information to prospective buyers and to maximize the value of businesses to be divested. The successful completion of the asset disposition plan could be adversely affected by any conflict of interests arising as a result of the asset disposition process between AIG, which is generally interested in maximizing the proceeds from an asset disposition, and its employees, who may be focused on obtaining employment from the acquiror. AIG 2009 Form 10-K 24 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in significant losses. Losses may result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, both generally, and during the asset disposition process. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and AIG runs the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the controls that AIG has in place to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. This risk may be heightened by AIG's asset disposition program since employees who perceive that they will lose their jobs may engage in intentional misconduct or simply fail to comply with AIG's reporting requirements. Policyholder Behavior AIG's policyholders and agents and other distributors of AIG's insurance products have expressed significant concerns in the wake of announcements by AIG of adverse financial results. Many of AIG's businesses depend upon the financial stability (both actual and perceived) of AIG parent. Concerns that AIG or its subsidiaries may not be able to meet their obligations have negatively affected AIG's businesses in many ways, including: •requests by customers to withdraw funds from AIG under annuity and certain life insurance contracts; •a refusal by independent agents, brokers and banks to continue to offer AIG products and services; •a refusal of counterparties, customers or vendors to continue to do business with AIG; and •requests by customers and other parties to terminate existing contractual relationships. Continued economic uncertainty, additional adverse results or a lack of confidence in AIG and AIG's businesses may cause AIG customers, agents and other distributors to cease or reduce their dealings with AIG, turn to competitors or shift to products that generate less income for AIG. Although AIG has announced its intent to refocus its business and certain AIG subsidiaries are rebranding themselves in an attempt to overcome a perception of instability, AIG cannot be sure that such efforts will be successful in attracting or maintaining clients. Concentration of Investments and Exposures Concentration of AIG's investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects. AIG's results of operations have been adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected by a concentration in residential mortgage-backed, commercial mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage loans. AIG also has significant exposures to financial institutions and, in particular, to money center and global banks. These types of concentrations in AIG's investment portfolios could have an adverse effect on the value of these portfolios and consequently on AIG's consolidated results of operations and financial condition. While AIG seeks to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Furthermore, AIG's ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. Concentration of AIG's insurance and other risk exposures may have adverse effects. AIG seeks to manage the risks to which it is exposed as a result of the insurance policies, derivatives and other obligations that it undertakes to customers and counterparties by monitoring the diversification of its exposures by exposure type, industry, geographic region, counterparty and otherwise and by using reinsurance, hedging and other arrangements to limit or offset exposures that exceed the limits it wishes to retain. In certain circumstances, or with respect to certain exposures, such risk management arrangements may not be available on acceptable terms, or AIG's exposure in absolute terms may be so large that even slightly adverse experience compared to AIG's expectations may cause a material adverse effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Casualty Insurance Underwriting and Reserves Casualty insurance liabilities are difficult to predict and may exceed the related reserves for losses and loss expenses. Although AIG regularly reviews the adequacy of the established Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment 25 AIG 2009 Form 10-K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries expense and conducts an extensive analysis of its reserves at each year end, there can be no assurance that AIG's loss reserves will not develop adversely and have a material adverse effect on AIG's results of operations. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2009, AIG's general insurance operations recorded a $2.3 billion reserve strengthening charge. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a complex process for long-tail casualty lines of business, which include excess and umbrella liability, D&O, professional liability, medical malpractice, workers' compensation, general liability, products liability and related classes, as well as for asbestos and environmental exposures. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to project future loss development. However, there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same as in the past. Moreover, any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be discernible for an extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the potential for reserves with respect to a number of years to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors that were relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other social or economic phenomena affecting claims, such as the effects that the recent disruption in the credit markets could have on reported claims under D&O or professional liability coverages. For a further discussion of AIG's loss reserves, including the fourth quarter 2009 charge relating to an increase in the net loss and loss adjustment reserves, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Segment Results — General Insurance Operations — Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense. Risk Management AIG is exposed to a number of significant risks, and AIG's risk management policies, processes and controls may not be effective in mitigating AIG's risk exposures in all market conditions and to all types of risk. The major risks to which AIG is exposed include credit risk, market risk, including credit spread risk, operational risk, liquidity risk and insurance risk. AIG's risk management policies, tools and processes have in the past been ineffective and could be ineffective in the future as well. A failure of AIG's risk management could materially and adversely affect AIG's consolidated results of operations, liquidity or financial condition, result in regulatory action or litigation or further damage AIG's reputation. For a further discussion of AIG's risk management process and controls, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management. Operational risks of asset dispositions. AIG is exposed to various operational risks associated with the dispositions of subsidiaries and the resulting restructuring of AIG at the business and corporate levels. These risks include the ability to deconsolidate systems and processes of divested operations without adversely affecting AIG, the ability of AIG to fulfill its obligations under any transition separation agreements agreed upon with buyers, the ability of AIG to downsize the corporation as dispositions are accomplished and the ability of AIG to continue to provide services previously performed by divested entities. AIGFP wind-down risks. An orderly and successful wind-down of AIGFP's businesses and portfolios is subject to numerous risks, including market conditions, counterparty willingness to transact or terminate transactions with AIGFP and the retention of key personnel. An orderly and successful wind-down will also depend on the stability of AIG's credit ratings. Further downgrades of AIG's credit ratings likely would have an adverse effect on the wind-down of AIGFP's businesses and portfolios. Regulatory Capital Credit Default Swap Portfolio A deterioration in the credit markets may cause AIG to recognize unrealized market valuation losses in AIGFP's regulatory capital super senior credit default swap portfolio in future periods which could have a material adverse effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition or consolidated results of operations. Moreover, depending on how the extension of the Basel I capital floors is implemented, the period of time that AIGFP remains at risk for such deterioration could be significantly longer than anticipated by AIGFP. A total of $150.0 billion in net notional amount of the super senior credit default swap (CDS) portfolio of AIGFP as of December 31, 2009, represented derivatives written for financial institutions, principally in Europe, which AIG understands to have been originally written primarily for the purpose of providing regulatory capital relief rather than AIG 2009 Form 10-K 26 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries for arbitrage purposes. The net fair value of the net derivative asset for these CDS transactions was $116 million at December 31, 2009. The regulatory benefit of these transactions for AIGFP's financial institution counterparties is generally derived from the terms of the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel I) that existed through the end of 2007 and which is in the process of being replaced by the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel II). It was originally expected that financial institution counterparties would have transitioned from Basel I to Basel II by the end of the two-year adoption period on December 31, 2009, after which they would have received little or no additional regulatory capital benefit from these CDS transactions, except in a small number of specific instances. However, the Basel Committee recently announced that it has agreed to keep in place the Basel I capital floors beyond the end of 2009, although it remains to be seen how this extension will be implemented by the various European Central Banking districts. Should certain counterparties continue to receive favorable regulatory capital benefits from these transactions, those counterparties may not exercise their options to terminate the transactions in the expected time frame. AIGFP continues to reassess the expected maturity of this portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, AIGFP estimated that the weighted average expected maturity of the portfolio was 1.35 years. The nature of the information provided or otherwise available to AIGFP with respect to the underlying assets in each regulatory capital CDS transaction is not consistent across all transactions. Furthermore, in a majority of corporate loan transactions and all of the residential mortgage transactions, the pools are blind, meaning that the identities of obligors are not disclosed to AIGFP. In addition, although AIGFP receives periodic reports on the underlying asset pools, virtually all of the regulatory capital CDS transactions contain confidentiality restrictions that preclude AIGFP's public disclosure of information relating to the underlying referenced assets. AIGFP analyzes the information regarding the performance and credit quality of the underlying pools of assets required to make its own risk assessment and to determine any changes in credit quality with respect to such pools of assets. While much of this information received by AIGFP cannot be aggregated in a comparable way for disclosure purposes because of the confidentiality restrictions and the inconsistency of the information, it does provide a sufficient basis for AIGFP to evaluate the risks of the portfolio and to determine a reasonable estimate of fair value. Given the current performance of the underlying portfolios, the level of subordination and AIGFP's own assessment of the credit quality of the underlying portfolio, as well as the risk mitigants inherent in the transaction structures, AIGFP does not expect that it will be required to make payments pursuant to the contractual terms of those transactions providing regulatory capital relief. AIGFP will continue to assess the valuation of this portfolio and monitor developments in the marketplace. Given the potential for further significant deterioration in the credit markets and the risk that AIGFP's expectations with respect to the termination of these transactions by its counterparties may not materialize, there can be no assurance that AIG will not recognize unrealized market valuation losses from this portfolio in future periods. Depending on how the extension of the Basel I capital floors is implemented, AIG could also remain at risk for a significantly longer period of time than originally anticipated. Moreover, given the size of the credit exposure, a decline in the fair value of this portfolio could have a material adverse effect on AIG's consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period or to AIG's consolidated financial condition. Adjustments to Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs for Life Insurance and Retirement Services Companies Interest rate fluctuations, increased surrenders, investment returns and other events may require AIG subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) which could adversely affect AIG's consolidated financial condition or results of operations. DAC represents the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts. When interest rates rise or customers lose confidence in a company, policy loans and policy surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns or more stability, requiring AIG subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of DAC. To the extent such amortization exceeds surrender or other charges earned upon surrender and withdrawals of certain life insurance policies and annuity contracts, AIG's results of operations could be negatively affected. 27 AIG 2009 Form 10-K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries DAC for both insurance-oriented and investment-oriented products, as well as retirement services products is reviewed for recoverability, which involves estimating the future profitability of current business. This review involves significant management judgment. If the actual emergence of future profitability were to be substantially lower than estimated, AIG could be required to accelerate its DAC amortization and such acceleration could adversely affect AIG's results of operations. For a further discussion of DAC, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates and Notes 1 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Catastrophe Exposures The occurrence of catastrophic events could adversely affect AIG's consolidated financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of events such as hurricanes, earthquakes, pandemic disease, acts of terrorism and other catastrophes could adversely affect AIG's consolidated financial condition or results of operations, including by exposing AIG's businesses to the following: •widespread claim costs associated with property, workers' compensation, mortality and morbidity claims; •loss resulting from the value of invested assets declining to below the amount required to meet policy and contract liabilities; and •loss resulting from actual policy experience emerging adversely in comparison to the assumptions made in the product pricing related to mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses. Reinsurance Reinsurance may not be available or affordable. AIG subsidiaries are major purchasers of reinsurance and utilize reinsurance as part of AIG's overall risk management strategy. Reinsurance is an important risk management tool to manage transaction and insurance line risk retention and to mitigate losses that may arise from catastrophes. Market conditions beyond AIG's control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance purchased by AIG subsidiaries. For example, reinsurance may be more difficult to obtain after a year with a large number of major catastrophes. Accordingly, AIG may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, in which case AIG would have to accept an increase in exposure risk, reduce the amount of business written by its subsidiaries or seek alternatives. Reinsurance subjects AIG to the credit risk of its reinsurers and may not be adequate to protect AIG against losses. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to the AIG subsidiary to the extent the risk is ceded, it does not relieve the AIG subsidiary of the primary liability to its policyholders. Accordingly, AIG bears credit risk with respect to its subsidiaries' reinsurers to the extent not mitigated by collateral or other credit enhancements. A reinsurer's insolvency or inability or refusal to make timely payments under the terms of its agreements with the AIG subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on AIG's results of operations and liquidity. For additional information on AIG's reinsurance, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management — Insurance Risk Management — Reinsurance. Regulation AIG is subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which it conducts its businesses, and recent regulatory actions have made it challenging for AIG to continue to engage in business in the ordinary course. AIG's operations around the world are subject to regulation by different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities, investment advisory, banking and thrift regulators in the United States and abroad. AIG's operations have become more diverse and consumer-oriented, increasing the scope of regulatory supervision and the possibility of intervention. In light of AIG's liquidity issues beginning in the third quarter of 2008, AIG and its regulated subsidiaries have been subject to intense review and supervision around the world. Regulators have taken significant steps to protect the businesses of the entities they regulate. These steps have included: •restricting or prohibiting the payment of dividends to AIG parent and its subsidiaries; •restricting or prohibiting other payments to AIG parent and its subsidiaries; AIG 2009 Form 10-K 28 Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries •requesting additional capital contributions from AIG parent; •requesting that intercompany reinsurance reserves be covered by assets locally; •restricting the business in which the subsidiaries may engage; •requiring pre-approval of all proposed transactions between the regulated subsidiaries and AIG parent or any affiliate; and •requiring more frequent reporting, including with respect to capital and liquidity positions. These and other actions have made it challenging for AIG to continue to maintain focus on its businesses and engage in business in the ordinary course. AIG does not expect these conditions to change in the foreseeable future. Requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and similar laws that apply to AIG may expose AIG to significant penalties. The operations of certain of AIG's subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which requires companies to know certain information about their clients and to monitor their transactions for suspicious activities. In addition, the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control administers regulations requiring U.S. persons to refrain from doing business, or allowing their clients to do business through them, with certain organizations or individuals on a prohibited list maintained by the U.S. government or with certain countries. The United Kingdom, the European Union and other jurisdictions maintain similar laws and regulations. Although AIG has instituted compliance programs to address these requirements, there are inherent risks in global transactions such as those engaged in by AIG and its subsidiaries. Proposed regulations may affect AIG's operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively. Legislators and regulators have recently put forward various proposals that may impact the profitability of certain of AIG's businesses or even its ability to conduct certain businesses at all, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose additional taxes on a limited subset of financial institutions and insurance companies (either based on size, activities, geography, government support or other criteria). It is unclear how these and other such proposals would apply to AIG or its competitors or how they could impact AIG's consolidated results of operations, financial condition, and ability to compete effectively. Foreign Operations Foreign operations expose AIG to risks that may affect its operations, liquidity and financial condition. AIG provides insurance, investment and other financial products and services to both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. A substantial portion of AIG's General Insurance business and all of its Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services business is conducted outside the United States. Operations outside the United States, particularly those in developing nations, may be affected by regional economic downturns, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, political upheaval, nationalization and other restrictive government actions, which could also affect other AIG operations. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as its subsidiaries operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to AIG subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus, AIG's insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect AIG's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition depending on the magnitude of the event and AIG's financial exposure at that time in that country. Legal Proceedings Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect AIG's results of operations. AIG is party to numerous legal proceedings, including securities class actions and regulatory or governmental investigations. Due to the nature of the litigation, the lack of precise damage claims and the type of claims made against AIG, AIG cannot currently quantify its ultimate or maximum liability for these actions. It is possible that developments in these unresolved matters could have a material adverse effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition or consolidated results of operations for an 29 AIG 2009 Form 10-K Table of Contents American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries individual reporting period. For a discussion of these unresolved matters, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Use of Estimates If actual experience differs from management's estimates used in the preparation of financial statements, AIG's consolidated results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. AIG considers that its accounting policies that are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore viewed as critical accounting estimates, are those described in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. Additionally, the recoverability of deferred tax assets depends primarily on AIG achieving its estimated values for all or a portion of AIA and ALICO, as well as certain other transactions. The failure to receive the estimated values or to effect such transactions could result in AIG recording a charge resulting in a reduction, possibly material, of the net deferred tax asset. Further, such transactions could result in a goodwill or other long-lived asset impairment charge. These estimates, by their nature, are based on judgment and current facts and circumstances. Therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates, possibly in the near term, and could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Aircraft Suppliers There are limited suppliers of aircraft and engines. The supply of jet transport aircraft, which ILFC purchases and leases, is dominated by two airframe manufacturers, Boeing and Airbus, and a limited number of engine manufacturers. As a result, ILFC is dependent on the manufacturers' success in remaining financially stable, producing aircraft and related components which meet the airlines' demands, both in type and quantity, and fulfilling their contractual obligations to ILFC. Competition between the manufacturers for market share is intense and may lead to instances of deep discounting for certain aircraft types that could negatively affect ILFC's competitive pricing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of AIG's fiscal year relating to AIG's periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 