ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS internally developed models. Therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates, possibly in the near term, and could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could impact our reported results of operations and our reported financial position. Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised. Accordingly, from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but are not yet required to be implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the SEC. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The FASB and International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) have ongoing projects to revise accounting standards for insurance contracts. While the final resolution of changes to U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards pursuant to these projects is unclear, changes to the manner in which we account for insurance products could have a significant impact on our future financial reports, operations, capital management and business. Further, the adoption of a new insurance contracts standard as well as other future accounting standards could have a material effect on our reported results of operations and reported financial condition. Changes in our assumptions regarding the discount rate, expected rate of return, and expected compensation for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. Changes in these assumptions, including from the impact of a sustained low interest rate environment, may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on our pension and postretirement benefit plans. AIG 2013 Form 10-K 46 Table of Contents ITEM 1B / UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 1B / UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of AIG's fiscal year relating to AIG's periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 