ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following factors could materially adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Although the Company has tried to discuss key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and the Company cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect the Company’s financial performance. A change in sales strategy by the Company’s suppliers could adversely affect the Company’s sales or earnings. Most of the Company’s agreements with suppliers are cancellable by either party on short notice for any reason. The Company currently sources products from over 5,000 suppliers. However, over 30% of the Company’s dollar volume purchases in 2006 were from its five largest suppliers. If any of these suppliers changed its sales strategy to reduce its reliance on distribution channels, or decided to terminate its business relationship with the Company, sales and earnings could be adversely affected until the Company was able to establish relationships with suppliers of comparable products. Although the Company believes its relationships with these key suppliers are good, they could change their strategies as a result of a change in control, expansion of their direct sales force, changes in the marketplace or other factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to political, economic and currency risks. The Company derives approximately 38% of its revenues from sales outside of the United States. Economic and political conditions in some of these markets may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition in these markets. The Company’s results of operations and the value of its foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and different legal, tax, accounting and regulatory requirements. 4 Table of Contents The Company has risks associated with inventory. The Company must identify the right product mix and maintain sufficient inventory on hand to meet customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect the Company’s sales and earnings. However, if circumstances change (for example, an unexpected shift in market demand, pricing or customer defaults) there could be a material impact on the net realizable value of the Company’s inventory. To guard against inventory obsolescence, the Company has negotiated various return rights and price protection agreements with certain key suppliers. The Company also maintains an inventory valuation reserve account against diminution in the value or salability of the Company’s inventory. However, there is no guaranty that these arrangements will be sufficient to avoid write-offs in excess of the Company’s reserves in all circumstances. The Company’s operating results are affected by commodity prices. The Company’s recent operating results have been favorably affected by the rise in commodity prices, primarily copper, which is a major component in the electrical wire and cable products sold by the Company. As the Company’s purchase costs with suppliers increase to reflect the higher copper prices, its mark-up percentage to customers remains relatively constant, resulting in higher sales revenue and gross profit. In addition, existing inventory purchased at lower prices and sold as prices increase favorably affects the Company’s results. However, a decrease in copper prices in a short period of time would have the opposite effect, negatively affecting the Company’s results. The Company has risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses. The Company’s recent growth in sales and earnings is attributable to a combination of internal growth and acquisitions. In connection with recent and future acquisitions, it will be necessary for the Company to create a cohesive business from the various acquired properties. To do this will require the establishment of a common management team to guide the acquired businesses, the conversion of numerous information systems to a common operating system, the establishment of a brand identity for the acquired businesses, the streamlining of the operating structure to optimize efficiency and customer service and a reassessment of the inventory and supplier base to insure the availability of products at competitive prices. No assurance can be given that these various actions can be completed without disruption to the business, that the various actions can be completed in a short period of time or that anticipated improvements in operating performance can be achieved. The Company’s debt agreements could impose restrictions on its business. The Company’s debt agreements contain numerous financial and operating covenants that limit its discretion with respect to certain business matters. These covenants restrict the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness, to pay dividends and other distributions and to merge or consolidate with other entities. As a result of these restrictions, the Company is limited in how it may conduct business and may be unable to compete effectively or take advantage of new business opportunities. The Company has risks associated with accounts receivable. Although no single customer accounts for more than 5% of the Company’s sales, a payment default by one of its larger customers could have a short-term impact on earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 