ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following factors could materially adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Although the Company has tried to discuss key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and the Company cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect the Company’s financial performance. A change in sales strategy or financial viability of the Company’s suppliers could adversely affect the Company’s sales or earnings. Most of the Company’s agreements with suppliers are terminable by either party on short notice for any reason. The Company currently sources products from over 7,000 suppliers. However, approximately 30% of the Company’s dollar volume purchases in 2008 were from its five largest suppliers. If any of these suppliers changed its sales strategy to reduce its reliance on distribution channels, or decided to terminate its business relationship with the Company, sales and earnings could be adversely affected until the Company was able to establish relationships with suppliers of comparable products. Although the Company believes its relationships with these key suppliers are good, they could change their strategies as a result of a change in control, expansion of their direct sales force, changes in the marketplace or other factors beyond the Company’s control, including a key supplier becoming financially distressed. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to political, economic and currency risks. The Company derives approximately 41% of its revenues from sales outside of the United States. Economic and political conditions in some of these markets may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition in these markets. The Company’s results of operations and the value of its foreign 4 Table of Contents assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and different legal, tax, accounting and regulatory requirements. The Company has risks associated with inventory. The Company must identify the right product mix and maintain sufficient inventory on hand to meet customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect the Company’s sales and earnings. However, if circumstances change (for example, an unexpected shift in market demand, pricing or customer defaults) there could be a material impact on the net realizable value of the Company’s inventory. To guard against inventory obsolescence, the Company has negotiated various return rights and price protection agreements with certain key suppliers. The Company also maintains an inventory valuation reserve account against diminution in the value or salability of the Company’s inventory. However, there is no guaranty that these arrangements will be sufficient to avoid write-offs in excess of the Company’s reserves in all circumstances. The Company’s operating results are affected by copper prices. The Company’s operating results have been affected by changes in copper prices, which is a major component in the electrical wire and cable products sold by the Company. As the Company’s purchase costs with suppliers change to reflect the changing copper prices, its mark-up to customers remains relatively constant, resulting in higher or lower sales revenue and gross profit depending upon whether copper prices are increasing or decreasing. The Company has risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses. The Company’s recent growth in sales and earnings is attributable to a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. In connection with recent and future acquisitions, it is necessary for the Company to continue to create a cohesive business from the various acquired properties. This requires the establishment of a common management team to guide the acquired businesses, the conversion of numerous information systems to a common operating system, the establishment of a brand identity for the acquired businesses, the streamlining of the operating structure to optimize efficiency and customer service and a reassessment of the inventory and supplier base to ensure the availability of products at competitive prices. No assurance can be given that these various actions can continue to be completed without disruption to the business, that the various actions can be completed in a short period of time or that anticipated improvements in operating performance can be achieved. The Company’s debt agreements could impose restrictions on its business. The Company’s debt agreements contain certain financial and operating covenants that limit its discretion with respect to certain business matters. These covenants restrict the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, the Company is limited in how it may conduct business and may be unable to compete effectively or take advantage of new business opportunities. The Company has risks associated with accounts receivable. Although no single customer accounts for more than 3% of the Company’s sales, a payment default by one of its larger customers could have a short-term impact on earnings. Given the current economic environment, the risk that constrained access to capital and general market contractions may heighten exposure of customer default. The Company may have substantial funding needs in 2009. The Company’s outstanding 3.25% zero coupon convertible notes due 2033 include a right for the holders of those notes to put them to the Company in July 2009 for cash consideration of $170.3 million. The Company also has outstanding an accounts receivable securitization facility which has a 364 day term that ends in September 2009. At the end of 2008, the Company had $195 million of borrowings under this facility. The Company believes that earnings, additional cash flow generated as a result of lower working capital requirements due to expected lower near-term sales growth as a result of the global recession, and approximately $248 million in available, committed, unused credit lines will be sufficient to fund operations, as well as the specific funding needs discussed above. In the event these sources are not sufficient to support the Company’s funding needs, the Company may need to access the capital markets and there can be no assurance that, when the Company accesses the capital markets, funding will be available or will be available on favorable terms. This could result in a material increase in interest expense, decrease in profitability or more restrictive covenants. 5 Table of Contents The Company does not anticipate that it will pursue acquisitions or any significant return of capital to shareholders until such time as the current economic conditions show clear signs of improvement and the capital markets return to a more normalized state of operation. The Company may be required to record a charge to our earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. The Company tests for impairment of goodwill annually at the beginning of the third quarter in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards. When events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value for such assets may not be recoverable, however, the Company reviews its goodwill for impairment on an interim basis. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances requiring our interim testing include a decline in stock price as compared to the Company’s book value per share, future cash flows and slower growth rates. As a result of the dramatic change in the economic and market conditions in the fourth quarter of 2008, including the change in the Company’s stock price as compared to its book value per share and the significant disruptions in the global credit markets, the Company performed an interim impairment test for goodwill as of the fiscal year end 2008. The Company did not record any impairment charge as a result of that interim test. However, in connection with future annual or interim tests, the Company may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings in its financial statements during the period in which any impairment of goodwill is determined, resulting in an impact on the Company’s results of operations. See Note 1. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies — Goodwill” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to impairment of goodwill. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 