Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain statements in this document regarding anticipated financial outcomes including earnings guidance, if any, business and market conditions, outlook and other similar statements relating to Rayonier’s future financial and operational performance, are “forward-looking statements” made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements are identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “estimate,” “believe,” “anticipate” and other similar language. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and undue reliance should not be placed on these statements. The following risk factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements that are made in this document. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no duty to update its forward- looking statements except as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our subsequent Forms 10-Q, 10-K, 8-K and other reports to the SEC. Our operations are subject to a number of risks, including those listed below. When considering an investment in our securities, you should carefully read and consider these risks, together with all other information in this Report. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results, as well as the market price of our securities, could be materially adversely affected. Business and Operating Risks The cyclical nature of our businesses could adversely affect our results of operations. Our financial performance is affected by the cyclical nature of the forest products and real estate industries. The markets for timber, real estate, performance fibers and wood products are influenced by a variety of factors beyond our control. For example, the demand for real estate can be affected by changes in interest rates, availability and terms of financing, local economic conditions, new housing starts, population growth and demographics. The demand for sawtimber is primarily affected by the level of new residential and commercial construction activity, and currently sawtimber pricing is below historic levels. Both our Real Estate and Timber businesses have been negatively impacted by the current economic downturn, primarily due to the decline in housing starts and the tightening of credit availability for real estate and construction related projects. The supply of timber and logs has historically increased during favorable pricing environments, which then causes downward pressure on prices. The forest products and real estate industries are highly competitive. Some of our competitors in the forest products businesses have greater financial and operating resources and own more timberlands than we do. Some of our forest products competitors may also be lower-cost producers in some of the businesses in which we operate. In addition, wood products are subject to significant competition from a variety of non-wood and engineered wood products. We are also subject to competition from various forest products, including logs and pulp products imported from foreign countries to the United States as well as to the export markets served by us. To the extent there is a significant increase in competitive pressures from substitute products or other domestic or foreign suppliers, our business could be adversely affected. With respect to our real estate business, one of our key strategies is to engage in activities that add long term value to our properties, including obtaining entitlements. Many of our competitors in this segment have greater experience in real estate entitlement than we do. Changes in energy and raw material prices could impact our operating results and financial condition. Energy and raw material costs, such as oil, natural gas, wood, and chemicals are a significant operating expense, particularly for the Performance Fibers and Wood Products businesses. The prices of raw materials and energy can be volatile and are susceptible to rapid and substantial increases due to factors beyond our control such as changing economic conditions, political unrest, instability in energy-producing nations, and supply and demand considerations. For example, in 2008, we experienced significant volatility in energy, chemicals, transportation and other input costs, although in 2009 pricing for some of these inputs has returned to relatively normal levels. Oil and natural gas costs have also substantially increased in recent years and we have experienced, at times, a limited availability of hardwood, primarily due to wet weather conditions which impacts harvesting and results in increased costs for some Performance Fibers products. Increases in production costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and results of operations. In addition, in our Timber, Performance Fibers and Wood Products businesses, the rising cost of fuel, and its impact on the cost and availability of transportation for our products, both domestically and internationally, and the cost and availability of third party logging and trucking services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions, market trends and world events could impact customer demand. The global reach of our business, particularly the Performance Fibers business and our interest in the New Zealand joint venture, causes us to be subject to unexpected, uncontrollable and rapidly changing events and circumstances in addition to those experienced in the U.S. The current global economic and financial market situation is an example of such changes. Adverse changes in the following factors, among others, could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations: • exposure to currencies other than the United States dollar; • regulatory, social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and, • trade protection laws, policies and measures and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs, and import and export licensing requirements. Our businesses are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations that may restrict or adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Environmental laws and regulations are constantly changing, and are generally becoming more restrictive. Laws, regulations and related judicial decisions, and administrative interpretations affecting our business are subject to change and new laws and regulations that may affect our business are frequently enacted. These changes may adversely affect our ability to harvest and sell timber, operate our manufacturing facilities, remediate contaminated properties and/or develop real estate. These laws and regulations may relate to, among other things, the protection of timberlands, endangered species, timber harvesting practices, recreation and aesthetics, protection and restoration of natural resources, air and water quality, and remedial standards for contaminated property and groundwater. Over time, the complexity and stringency of these laws and regulations have increased markedly and the enforcement of these laws and regulations has intensified. Moreover, environmental policies of the current administration are in the aggregate, more restrictive for industry and landowners than those of the previous administration. For example, in 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) proposed a number of initiatives which could, if implemented, impose additional operational and pollution control obligations on industrial facilities like those of Rayonier, especially in the area of air emissions and wastewater and stormwater control. Nonetheless, irrespective of any particular presidential administration, environmental laws and regulations will likely continue to become more restrictive and over time could adversely affect our operating results. If regulatory and environmental permits are delayed, restricted or rejected, a variety of our operations could be adversely affected. In connection with a variety of operations on our properties, we are required to seek permission from government agencies in the states and countries in which we operate to perform certain activities. Any of these agencies could delay review of, or reject, any of our filings. In our Timber business, any delay associated with a filing could result in a delay or restriction in replanting, thinning, insect control, fire control or harvesting, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. For example, in Washington State, we are required to file a Forest Practice Application for each unit of timberland to be harvested. These applications may be denied, conditioned or restricted by the regulatory agency or appealed by other parties, including citizen groups. Appeals or actions of the regulatory agencies could delay or restrict timber harvest activities pursuant to these permits. Delays or harvest restrictions on a significant number of applications could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In our Performance Fibers and Wood Products businesses, many modifications and capital projects at our manufacturing facilities require an environmental permit, or an amendment to an existing permit. Delays in obtaining these permits could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Environmental groups and interested individuals may seek to delay or prevent a variety of operations. We expect that environmental groups and interested individuals will intervene with increasing frequency in the regulatory processes in the states and countries where we own, lease or manage timberlands, and operate mills. For example, as described in more detail in Item 3 — Legal Proceedings, the Altamaha Riverkeeper, a non-profit environmental group, has alleged noncompliance by our Jesup mill with certain laws relating to its effluent discharge, and has threatened to file a “citizen suit” against 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Rayonier pursuant to the provisions of the Clean Water Act if the group’s concerns are not addressed to their satisfaction. In Washington State, environmental groups and interested individuals may appeal individual forest practice applications or file petitions with the Forest Practices Board to challenge the regulations under which forest practices are approved. These and other challenges could materially delay or prevent operations on our properties. Delays or restrictions due to the intervention of environmental groups or interested individuals could adversely affect our operating results. In addition to intervention in regulatory proceedings, interested groups and individuals may file or threaten to file lawsuits that seek to prevent us from obtaining permits, implementing capital improvements or pursuing operating plans. Any lawsuit or even a threatened lawsuit could delay harvesting on our timberlands, impact how we operate or our ability to invest in our mills. Among the remedies that could be enforced in a lawsuit is a judgment preventing or restricting harvesting on a portion of our timberlands, or adversely affecting the projected operating benefits or cost of capital projects at our mills. The impact of existing regulatory restrictions on future harvesting activities may be significant. Federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as those of other countries, which are intended to protect threatened and endangered species, as well as waterways and wetlands, limit and may prevent timber harvesting, road building and other activities on our timberlands. The threatened and endangered species restrictions apply to activities that would adversely impact a protected species or significantly degrade its habitat. The size of the area subject to restriction will vary depending on the protected species at issue, the time of year and other factors, but can range from less than one to several thousand acres. A number of species that naturally live on or near our timberlands, including the northern spotted owl, marbled murrelet, bald eagle, several species of salmon and trout in the Northwest, and the red cockaded woodpecker, bald eagle, wood stork, red hill salamander, and flatwoods salamander in the Southeast, are protected under the Federal Endangered Species Act or similar state laws. Other species, such as the gopher tortoise, are currently under review for possible protection. As we gain additional information regarding the presence of threatened or endangered species on our timberlands, or if other regulations, such as those that require buffers to protect water bodies, become more restrictive, the amount of our timberlands subject to harvest restrictions could increase. Our Performance Fibers and Wood Products mills are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations concerning air emissions, wastewater discharge, water usage and waste handling and disposal. Many of our operations are subject to stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits which contain conditions that govern how we operate our facilities and, in many cases, how much product we can produce. These laws, regulations and permits, now and in the future, may restrict our current production and limit our ability to increase production, and impose significant costs on our operations with respect to environmental compliance. For example, the U.S. EPA has recently proposed regulations governing the emission of certain air pollutants from industrial boilers, and the discharge of certain pollutants into Florida’s waterways. It is expected that, overall, these costs will likely increase over time as environmental laws, regulations and permit conditions become more stringent, and as the expectations of the communities in which we operate become more demanding. We currently own or may acquire properties which may require environmental remediation or otherwise be subject to environmental and other liabilities. We currently own, or formerly operated, manufacturing facilities and discontinued operations, or may acquire timberlands and other properties, which are subject to environmental liabilities, such as remediation of hazardous material contamination and other existing or potential liabilities. For more detail, see Note 16 — Liabilities for Dispositions and Discontinued Operations. The cost of investigation and remediation of contaminated properties could increase operating costs and adversely affect financial results. Although we believe we currently have adequate reserves for the investigation and remediation of our properties, there can be no assurance that actual expenditures will not exceed our expectations, or that other unknown liabilities will not be discovered in the future. Entitlement and development of real estate entails a lengthy, uncertain and costly approval process. Entitlement and development of real estate entails extensive approval processes involving multiple regulatory jurisdictions. It is common for a project to require multiple approvals, permits and consents from federal, state and local governing and regulatory bodies. For example, in Florida, real estate projects must generally comply with the provisions of the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act (the “Growth Management Act”) and local land use and development regulations. In addition, in Florida, development projects that exceed certain specified regulatory thresholds require approval of a comprehensive Development of Regional Impact (“DRI”) application. Compliance with the Growth Management Act, local land development regulations and the DRI process is 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements usually lengthy and costly and significant conditions can be imposed on a developer with respect to a particular project. In addition, development of properties containing delineated wetlands may require one or more permits from the federal government. Any of these issues can materially affect the cost and timing of our real estate projects. The real estate entitlement process is frequently a political one, which involves uncertainty and often extensive negotiation and concessions in order to secure the necessary approvals and permits. A significant amount of our development property is located in counties in which local governments face challenging issues relating to growth and development, including zoning and future land use, public services, water availability, infrastructure and funding for same, and the requirements of state law, especially in the case of Florida under the Growth Management Act and DRI process. In addition, anti-development groups are active, especially in Florida, in seeking constitutional amendments, legislation and other anti-growth limitations on real estate development activities. For example, it is expected that a proposed constitutional amendment, called “Amendment 4,” will appear on the Florida ballot in November 2010, which, if enacted, will impose significant limitations on the ability of Florida municipalities to change the approved uses of property. We expect that this type of anti-growth activity may continue in the future. Issues affecting real estate development also include the availability of potable water for new development projects. For example, in Georgia, the Legislature enacted the Comprehensive Statewide Watershed Management Planning Act, which, among other things, created a governmental entity called the Georgia Water Council which was charged with preparing a comprehensive water management plan for the state and presenting it to the Georgia Legislature. It is unclear at this time how the plan will affect the cost and timing of real estate development along the I-95 coastal corridor in southern Georgia, where the Company has significant real estate holdings. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of these laws, the enactment of new laws regarding the use and development of real estate, changes in the political composition of state and local governmental bodies, and the identification of new facts regarding our properties could lead to new or greater costs and delays and liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, profitability or financial condition. Changes in demand for our real estate and delays in the timing of real estate transactions may affect our revenues and operating results. A number of factors, including changes in demographics, tightening of credit, and a slowing of commercial or residential real estate development, particularly along the I-95 coastal corridor in Florida and Georgia, could reduce the demand for our properties and negatively affect our results of operations. The current decline in the economy generally and in the housing market in particular, together with the deterioration of the credit markets, has certainly had such an effect in 2009 and is expected to continue into 2010. In addition, there are inherent uncertainties in the timing of real estate transactions that could adversely affect our operating results. Delays in the completion of transactions or the termination of potential transactions can be caused by factors beyond our control. These events have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operating results. The impacts of climate-related initiatives, at the international, federal and state levels, remain uncertain at this time. Currently, there are numerous international, federal and state-level initiatives and proposals addressing domestic and global climate issues. Within the U.S., most of these proposals would regulate and/or tax, in one fashion or another, the production of carbon dioxide and other “greenhouse gases” to facilitate the reduction of carbon compound emissions to the atmosphere, and provide tax and other incentives to produce and use more “clean energy.” For example, in 2009 the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Markey-Waxman bill (HR 2454), which would establish a so-called “cap and trade” regime and new permitting requirements to regulate greenhouse gas generation, as well as provide an incentive for the production and use of clean energy. To date, the U.S. Senate has not passed any comparable legislation. In sum, we believe that the potential for climate change legislation on the federal level is unknown. In addition, in late 2009, the U.S. EPA issued an “endangerment finding” under the Clear Air Act (“CAA”) with respect to carbon dioxide, which could lead to the regulation of carbon dioxide as a criteria pollutant under the CAA and have significant ramifications for Rayonier and the industry in general. On the international front, the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, which took place in December 2009, did not result in any significant progress toward a binding agreement to replace the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Overall, it is likely that future legislative and regulatory activity in this area will in some way impact Rayonier, but it is unclear at this time whether such impact will be, in the aggregate, positive or negative, or material. For example, while Rayonier’s Performance Fibers mills produce greenhouses gases and utilize fossil fuels, they also generate a substantial amount of their energy from wood fiber (often referred to as “biomass”), which is generally favored under most current legislative and regulatory proposals. In addition, our extensive timber holdings and the biomass they produce may provide opportunities for us to benefit from new legislation and regulation, especially due to the potential benefits available from carbon capture and sequestration opportunities, sale of “carbon credits” and “renewable portfolio standards” that mandate the use of non-fossil fuels by electricity generators, which could lead to increased demand for biomass products from our forests. We continue to monitor political and regulatory developments in this area, but their overall impact on Rayonier, from a cost, benefit and financial performance standpoint, is uncertain at this time. The precipitous decline in the stock market in 2008 impacted our pension plan investment performance and despite partial recovery in 2009, absent additional federal legislation, may require us to make significant additional cash contributions to our plans. We sponsor several defined benefit pension plans, which cover many of our salaried and hourly employees. Due to the precipitous decline in the stock market (the Dow Jones Industrial Average (“DJIA”) declined approximately 32 percent in 2008), the value of our pension plan equity assets has also dropped significantly. In 2009, the value of our plan’s assets increased as the stock market recovered (the DJIA increased approximately 19 percent in 2009). The Federal Pension Protection Act of 2006 (“PPA”) requires that certain capitalization levels be maintained in each of these plans. Recognizing that this issue affects much of corporate America, in December 2008 federal legislation was passed (as part of the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008) which provides short term relief to plan sponsors by allowing them to phase in the funding requirements of the PPA over three years, among other things. Because it is unknown how the stock market will perform over the next 12 to 24 months and whether additional legislation will be passed to address this issue, no assurances can be given that any additional plan contributions required by applicable law will not be material. Our joint venture partners may have interests that differ from ours and may take actions that adversely affect us. We participate in a joint venture in New Zealand, and may enter into other joint venture projects; for example, as part of our real estate strategy. A joint venture involves potential risks such as: • not having voting control over the joint venture; • the venture partner at any time may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; • the venture partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the investment; and, • the venture partner could experience financial difficulties. Actions by our venture partners may subject property owned by the joint venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the joint venture agreement or to other adverse consequences. We may be unsuccessful in carrying out our land acquisition strategy. We have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, acquisitions of strategic timberland and real estate properties that meet our investment criteria. Our timberland and real estate acquisitions may not perform in accordance with our expectations. We anticipate financing any such acquisitions through cash from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities, proceeds from equity or debt offerings or proceeds from asset dispositions, or any combination thereof. The failure to identify and complete suitable timberland and real estate property acquisitions, and the failure of any acquisitions to perform to our expectations, could adversely affect our operating results. Our failure to maintain satisfactory labor relations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Approximately 50 percent of our work force is unionized. These workers are exclusively in our Performance Fibers business. As a result, we are required to negotiate the wages, benefits and other terms with these employees collectively. Our financial results could be adversely affected if labor negotiations were to restrict the efficiency of our operations. In addition, our inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with any of these unions as existing agreements expire could result in strikes or work stoppages by the affected workers. For example, in 2010 we will engage in collective 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements bargaining agreement negotiations with unions representing substantially all of the hourly employees at our Fernandina Beach Performance Fibers mill. The mill’s current collective bargaining agreements expire in April 2010. If the unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Weather and other natural conditions may limit our timber harvest and sales. Weather conditions, timber growth cycles and restrictions on access may limit harvesting of our timberlands, as may other factors, including damage by fire, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought and natural disasters such as wind storms and hurricanes. We do not insure against losses of timber from any causes, including fire. The volume and value of timber that can be harvested from our timberlands may be reduced by fire, insect infestation, severe weather, disease, natural disasters, and other causes beyond our control. A reduction in our timber inventory could adversely affect our financial results and cash flows. As is typical in the forestry industry, we do not maintain insurance for any loss to our timber, including losses due to these causes. A significant portion of the timberland that we own, lease or manage is concentrated in limited geographic areas. We own, lease or manage approximately 2.5 million acres of timberland and real estate located primarily in the United States and New Zealand. Over 75 percent of our timberlands are located in four states: Alabama, Florida, Georgia and Washington. Accordingly, if the level of production from these forests substantially declines, or if the demand for timber in those regions declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our overall production levels and our revenues. We are dependent upon attracting and retaining key personnel. We believe that our success depends, to a significant extent, upon our ability to attract and retain key senior management and operations management personnel. Our failure to recruit and retain these key personnel could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Market interest rates may influence the price of our common shares. One of the factors that may influence the price of our common shares is our annual dividend yield as compared to yields on other financial instruments. Thus, an increase in market interest rates will result in higher yields on other financial instruments, which could adversely affect the price of our common shares. We have a significant amount of debt and the capacity to incur significant additional debt. As of December 31, 2009, we had $700 million of debt outstanding. See Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Financial Obligations for the payment schedule of our long-term debt obligations. We expect that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided from operations, and our bank credit facilities will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. Moreover, we have the borrowing capacity to incur significant additional debt and may do so if we enter into one or more strategic, merger, acquisition or other corporate or investment opportunities, or otherwise invest capital in one or more of our businesses. However, failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt becomes due, or to renew credit lines prior to their expiration, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements REIT and Tax-Related Risks If we fail to qualify as a REIT or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will have reduced funds available for distribution to our shareholders because our timber-related income will be subject to taxation. We intend to operate in accordance with REIT requirements pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). For example, as a REIT, we generally will not pay corporate-level tax on income we distribute to our shareholders (other than the income of TRS) as long as we distribute at least 90 percent of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code, which are subject to change, perhaps retroactively, and which are not within our control. We cannot assure that we will qualify as a REIT or be able to remain so qualified or that new legislation, U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If in any taxable year we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will suffer the following negative results: • we will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders in computing our taxable income; and, • we will be subject to federal income tax on our REIT taxable income. In addition, we will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification was lost, unless we are entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Code. As a result, our net income and the cash available for distribution to our shareholders could be reduced for up to five years or longer. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we may need to borrow funds or liquidate some investments or assets to pay the additional tax liability. Accordingly, cash available for distribution to our shareholders would be reduced. The extent of our use of taxable REIT subsidiaries may affect the price of our common shares relative to the share price of other REITs. We conduct a significant portion of our business activities through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. Our use of taxable REIT subsidiaries enables us to engage in non-REIT qualifying business activities such as the production and sale of performance fibers and wood products, real estate entitlement activities and sale of HBU property and other real estate (as a dealer) and sale of logs. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to corporate-level tax. Therefore, we pay income taxes on the income generated by our taxable REIT subsidiaries. Under the Code, no more than 25 percent of the value of the gross assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. This limitation may affect our ability to increase the size of our taxable REIT subsidiaries’ operations. Furthermore, our use of taxable REIT subsidiaries may cause the market to value our common shares differently than the shares of other REITs, which may not use taxable REIT subsidiaries as extensively as we use them. Lack of shareholder ownership and transfer restrictions in our articles of incorporation may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, an entity cannot have five or fewer individuals who own, directly or indirectly after applying attribution of ownership rules, 50 percent or more of the value of its outstanding shares during the last six months in each calendar year. Although it is not required by law or the REIT provisions of the Code, almost all REITs have adopted ownership and transfer restrictions in their articles of incorporation or organizational documents which seek to assure compliance with that rule. While we are not in violation of the ownership rules, we do not have, nor do we have any current plans to adopt, share ownership and transfer restrictions. As such, the possibility exists that five or fewer individuals could acquire 50 percent or more of the value of our outstanding shares, which could result in our disqualification as a REIT. We may be limited in our ability to fund distributions using cash generated through our taxable REIT subsidiaries. The ability of the REIT to receive dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries is limited by the rules with which we must comply to maintain our status as a REIT. In particular, at least 75 percent of gross income for each taxable year as a REIT must be derived from passive real estate sources including sales of our standing timber and other types of qualifying real estate income and no more than 25 percent of our gross income may consist of dividends from our taxable REIT subsidiaries and other non-real estate income. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements This limitation on our ability to receive dividends from our taxable REIT subsidiaries may impact our ability to fund cash distributions to our shareholders using cash flows from our taxable REIT subsidiaries. We can, however, under current law, issue stock dividends for up to 90 percent of our regular dividend distribution for calendar years 2009 through 2011. The net income of our taxable REIT subsidiaries is not required to be distributed, and income that is not distributed will not be subject to the REIT income distribution requirement. Certain of our business activities are potentially subject to prohibited transactions tax. As a REIT, we will be subject to a 100 percent tax on any net income from “prohibited transactions.” In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property to customers in the ordinary course of business. Sales of performance fibers and wood products which we produce and sales of logs constitute prohibited transactions. In addition, sales of timberlands or other real estate (as a dealer) constitute prohibited transactions. We intend to avoid the 100 percent prohibited transactions tax by conducting activities that would otherwise be prohibited transactions through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. We may not, however, always be able to identify timberland properties that will become part of our “dealer” real estate sales business. Therefore, if we sell timberlands which we incorrectly identify as property not held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or which subsequently become properties held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, we face the potential of being subject to the 100 percent prohibited transactions tax. Our cash dividends are not guaranteed and may fluctuate. Generally, REITs are required to distribute 90 percent of their ordinary taxable income, but not their net capital gains income. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are required to distribute material amounts of cash since substantially all of our taxable income is treated as capital gains income. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, determines the amount of quarterly dividends to be provided to our shareholders based on consideration of a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity and other factors, including debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on cash payments, future acquisitions and divestitures, harvest levels, changes in the price and demand for our products and general market demand for timberlands including those timberland properties that have higher and better uses. Consequently, our dividend levels may fluctuate. We may not be able to complete desired like-kind exchange transactions for timberlands and real estate we sell. When we sell timberlands and real estate, we generally seek to match these sales with the acquisition of suitable replacement timberlands. This allows us “like-kind exchange” treatment for these transactions under section 1031 and related regulations of the Code. This matching of sales and purchases provides us with significant tax benefits, most importantly the deferral of any gain on the property sold until ultimate disposition of the replacement property. While we attempt to complete like-kind exchanges wherever practical, we will not be able to do so in all instances due to various factors, including the lack of availability of suitable replacement property on acceptable terms, our inability to complete a qualifying like-kind exchange transaction within the time frames required by the Code and if we incorrectly identify real estate as property not held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The inability to obtain like-kind exchange treatment would result in the payment of taxes with respect to the property sold, and a corresponding reduction in earnings and cash available for distribution to shareholders as dividends. Alternative fuel mixture credit. The Company has disclosed information concerning its eligibility for the alternative fuel mixture credit. See Note 3 — Alternative Fuel Mixture Credit (“AFMC”) for additional information. Under applicable law, which expired on December 31, 2009, the tax credit was earned through the burning of qualifying fuel mixtures on or before such date. There can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the Company’s eligibility for, and amount of, such tax credit. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 