Item 1A. Risk Factors Our industry is highly cyclical, and an industry downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business. The electronic components distribution industry and, in particular, the semiconductor industry from which a large portion of our revenues come, has historically been affected by general economic downturns and fluctuations in product supply and demand, often associated with changes in technology and manufacturing capacity. These industry cycles and economic downturns have often had an adverse economic effect upon manufacturers, end-users of electronic components and electronic components distributors, including Jaco. We cannot predict the timing or the severity of the cycles within our industry, or how long and to what levels any industry downturn and/or general economic weakness will last or be exacerbated by terrorism or war or other factors on our industry. During each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, sales of semiconductors represented 54%, 50% and 58% of our net sales, respectively, and our revenues tend to closely follow the strength or weakness of the semiconductor market. While the semiconductor industry has strengthened in recent years, it is uncertain whether this improvement will continue, and future downturns in the technology industry, particularly in the semiconductor sector, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues and profitability previously declined significantly from historical highs and, although revenues have shown growth recently, we may be unable to achieve profitability at levels experienced in the past. Our operations have been significantly and negatively affected in the past by the downturn in the technology industry and the general economy. From a high of approximately $321 million in sales in fiscal 2001, our sales stabilized between $200 million and $250 million in fiscal 2003 through 2006. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, our revenues showed continued signs of stability with quarterly sequential revenues of $69.6, $66.0, $49.9 and $54.7 million. Nevertheless, we have not yet been able to achieve consistent profitability, much less at a level deemed acceptable to management. During the past fiscal year, we continued to modify our business plan to focus on those core areas where we believe we can most effectively compete in the current business environment. Specifically, we are aggressively pursuing sales of flat panel displays and concentrating our marketing efforts on those core vendors whose products we believe still have a viable market in North America. In the event this strategy is unsuccessful, we may need to adopt further cost-cutting measures, which could include restructuring and other charges. 8 We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers. Loss of one or more of our key suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for products which generate a significant portion of our sales. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, products purchased from our two largest suppliers accounted for 23% and 7%, respectively, of our total net sales. Substantially all of our inventory has been and will be purchased from suppliers with which we have entered into non-exclusive distribution agreements. Moreover, most of our distribution agreements are cancelable upon short notice. As a result, in the event that one or more of those suppliers experience financial difficulties or are not willing to do business with us in the future on terms acceptable to management, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, our relationships with our customers could be materially adversely affected because our customers depend on our distribution of electronic components and computer products from the industry’s leading suppliers. Declines in the value of our inventory could materially adversely affect our business. The electronic components and computer products industry is subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced products and evolving industry standards, which can contribute to a decline in value or obsolescence of inventory. During an industry and/or economic downturn, it is possible that prices will decline due to an oversupply of product and, therefore, there may be greater risk of declines in inventory value. Although it is the policy of many of our suppliers to offer distributors like us certain protections from the loss in value of inventory (such as price protection, stock rotation privileges and limited rights of return and rebates), we cannot assure you that such protections will fully compensate us for the loss in value, or that the suppliers will choose to, or be able to, honor such agreements, some of which are not documented and therefore subject to the discretion of the supplier. We cannot assure you that unforeseen new product developments or declines in the value of our inventory will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, or that we will successfully manage our existing and future inventories. Significant order cancellations, reductions or delays by our customers could materially adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers, but instead work with our customers to develop nonbinding forecasts of future requirements. Based on these forecasts, we make commitments regarding the level of business that we will seek and accept, the timing of production schedules and the levels and utilization of personnel and other resources. A variety of conditions, both specific to each customer and generally affecting each customer’s industry, may cause customers to cancel, reduce or delay orders that were either previously made or anticipated. Generally, customers may cancel, reduce or delay purchase orders and commitments without penalty, except for payment for services rendered or products completed and, in certain circumstances, payment for materials purchased and charges associated with such cancellation, reduction or delay. Significant or numerous order cancellations, reductions or delays by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 9 The market for our products and services is very competitive and, if we cannot effectively compete, our business will be harmed. The market for our products and services is very competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We compete with many other distributors of electronic components, many of which are larger and have significantly greater assets, name recognition and financial, personnel and other resources than we have. As a result, our competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to potential acquisitions and other market opportunities, new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Occasionally, we compete for customers with many of our own suppliers and additional competition has emerged from third-party logistics providers, fulfillment companies, catalogue distributors and e-commerce companies, including on-line distributors and brokers, which have grown with the expanded use of the Internet. Furthermore, as more and more electronic components manufacturing moves outside North America, we believe that the total available distribution market share in North America is being reduced as procurement channels increase in Asia and Europe. While we have implemented new strategies, including our website and multiple portals, in response to certain of these new sources of competition and trends, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our market share against the emergence of these or other sources of competition. Failure to maintain and enhance our competitive position could materially adversely affect our business and prospects. Additionally, prices for our products tend to decrease over their life cycle. This reduces resale per component sold. There is also continuing pressure from customers to reduce their total cost for products. Our suppliers may also seek to reduce our margins on the sale of their products in order to increase their own profitability or to be competitive with other suppliers of comparable product. We incur substantial costs on our value-added services required to remain competitive, retain existing business and gain new customers, and we must evaluate the expense of those efforts against the impact of price and margin reductions. Substantial defaults by our customers on accounts receivable or the loss of significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or to make payments in a timely manner, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. An economic or industry downturn could materially adversely affect the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. A significant deterioration in our ability to collect on accounts receivable could also trigger an event of default under our credit facility or otherwise impact the cost or availability of financing available to us. We may not have adequate liquidity or access to capital resources, and our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our cash needs. We need cash to service our indebtedness and for general corporate purposes, such as funding our ongoing working capital and capital expenditure needs. At June 30, 2007, we had cash, and cash equivalents, of approximately $16,000 (our credit facility, referred to below, currently requires cash from customer receipts to be applied directly to the repayment of outstanding indebtedness). In addition, we currently have access to a new credit facility, which was entered into on December 22, 2006, providing for a $55 million secured revolving line of credit, of which $37.7 million was being borrowed as of 10 June 30, 2007, with an additional $8.2 million available. On March 23, 2007, the credit facility was amended to provide the Company with a supplemental loan (“Supplemental Loan”) of $3,000,000, which originally was payable on May 17, 2007. On May 18, 2007, the Supplemental Loan was amended to provide for periodic payments to be made through July 15, 2007, at which time the Supplemental Loan was to be paid in full. On July 24, 2007 the Supplemental Loan was amended again to provide a $3,000,000 loan at an interest rate equal to the LIBOR rate plus 5%. The Supplemental Loan is now payable in seven quarterly installments commencing October 1, 2007. In addition, mandatory prepayments are to be made based (i) on an amount equal to fifty percent of Excess Cash Flow, as defined in the agreement and (ii) on the net proceeds of Designated Inventory, as defined in the agreement. Borrowings under the new credit facility are based principally on eligible accounts receivable and inventories of the Company, as defined in the credit agreement, and are collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company. Our ability to satisfy our cash needs depends on our ability to generate cash from operations and to continue to access capital from external sources of financing, both of which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Management believes we will be able to continue to obtain financing on acceptable terms under our existing credit facility or through other external sources. Our credit facility imposes debt service obligations and exposes us to certain risks associated with being a substantially leveraged company. For example, our credit facility contains several restrictive financial covenants, including, among others, provisions for maintenance of a fixed charge coverage ratio, and limitations on capital expenditures, dividends and other restricted payments. Failure to remain in compliance with these and other covenants could result in an event of default triggering an acceleration of our obligation to repay all outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility or limit our ability to borrow additional amounts thereunder. Historically, we have, when necessary, been able to obtain waivers or amendments to our prior credit facility to satisfy instances of non-compliance with our financial covenants. However, we cannot assure you that any such future waivers or amendments, if needed, will be available and, if they are not, any future non-compliance with our bank covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our substantial leverage could also have other significant negative consequences on our business, including: - increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; - increasing our exposure to increasing interest rates; - restricting our credit with our suppliers, which would limit our ability to purchase inventory; - limiting our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all; - requiring the dedication of a portion of any cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness (currently, our credit facility requires the deposit of customer receipts to be directed to a blocked account and applied directly to the repayment of outstanding indebtedness), thereby reducing the amount of any cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; - limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and - placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. 11 Interest rate changes may adversely affect our operating results. We are affected by interest rate changes with respect to our credit facility, which currently is based upon, at our option, the prime rate, federal funds rate or LIBOR. While interest rates have remained relatively constant over the last year, any increases in interest rates could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our business in non-U.S. locations, particularly Asia, represent a significant and growing portion of our sales, and our failure to expand in Asia may negatively impact our sales. The manufacturing of electronic components and computer products is increasingly shifting to lower-cost production facilities in Asia, most notably China. Suppliers in Asia have traditionally had lower gross profit margins than those in the United States and Europe, and typically charge lower prices in the Asian markets for their products, which places pressure on us to lower our prices to meet competition. Additionally, some of our customer base is transferring to the Far East in order to reduce production costs. In response to this trend, we continue to seek to expand our presence in Asia, primarily through marketing our value-added services to support global contract manufacturers. In addition, as part of our long-term growth plans, we continue to search for a potential strategic alliance or partner in the Far East. If we are unsuccessful in expanding our Far East operations, our sales could be negatively impacted. Expanding internationally may subject our operations to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following: - import and export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports; - the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties and technical standards and changes in those regulations; - potential restrictions on transfers of funds; - foreign currency fluctuations; - import and export duties and value added taxes; - transportation delays and interruptions; - uncertainties arising from local business practices and cultural considerations; and - potential military conflicts and political risks. While we have and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the shift of business abroad and the risks of doing business internationally, we cannot assure you that such measures will be adequate. We are dependent on foreign manufacturers and subject to trade regulations which expose us to political and economic risk. A significant number of components sold by us are manufactured by foreign companies. As a result, our ability to sell certain products at competitive prices could be adversely affected by any of the following: - increases in tariffs or duties; - changes in trade treaties; - strikes or delays in air or sea transportation; - future U.S. legislation with respect to pricing and/or import quotas on products imported from foreign countries; and - turbulence in offshore economies or financial markets. 12 Our ability to be competitive with respect to sales of imported components could also be affected by other governmental actions and policy changes, including anti-dumping and other international antitrust legislation. Our industry is subject to supply shortages. Any delay or inability to obtain components may have a material adverse effect on our business. During prior periods, there have been shortages of components in the electronics industry and the availability of certain components have been limited by some of our suppliers. Although such shortages and allocations have not had a material adverse effect on our business, we cannot assure you that any future shortages or allocations would not have such an effect on us. The prices of our components are subject to volatility. A significant portion of the memory products we sell have historically experienced volatile pricing. If market pricing for these products decreases significantly, we may experience periods when our investment in inventory exceeds the market price of such products. In addition, at times there are price increases from our suppliers that we are unable to pass on to our customers. These market conditions could have a negative impact on our sales and gross profit margins unless and until our suppliers reduce the cost of these products to us. Furthermore, in the future, the need for aggressive pricing programs in response to market conditions, an increased number of low-margin, large volume transactions and/or increased availability of the supply of certain products, could further impact our gross profit margins. A reversal of the trend for distribution to play an increasing role in the electronic components industry could materially adversely affect our business. In recent years, there has been a growing trend for original equipment manufacturers and contract electronics manufacturers to outsource their procurement, inventory and materials management processes to third parties, particularly electronic component distributors, including Jaco. Although we do not currently foresee this trend reversing, if it did, our business would be materially adversely affected. Our operations would be materially adversely affected if third party carriers were unable to transport our products on a timely basis. All of our products are shipped through third party carriers. If a strike or other event prevented or disrupted these carriers from transporting our products, other carriers may be unavailable or may not have the capacity to deliver our products to our customers. If adequate third party sources to ship our products were unavailable at any time, our business would be materially adversely affected. Our products may be found to be defective and, as a result, warranty and/or product liability claims may be asserted against us which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products are sold at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the equipment or other goods in which they are incorporated. Since a defect or failure in a product could give rise to failures in the end products that incorporate them (and claims for consequential damages against us from our 13 customers), we may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the sales and profits we receive from our products involved. While we and our suppliers specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by the laws of some of the countries where we do business. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of a significant quality or performance issue in the products sold by us depending on the extent to which we are required to pay for the damages that result. Although we currently have product liability insurance, such insurance is limited in coverage and amount. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to compete successfully will be adversely affected. We are heavily dependent on our current executive officers, management and technical personnel. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could materially adversely affect our ability to execute our business plans. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we might not be able to retain our existing key employees or attract and retain any additional personnel. We rely heavily on our internal information systems which, if not properly functioning, could materially adversely affect our business. Our current global operations reside on our technology platforms. Any of these systems are subject to electrical or telecommunications outages, computer hacking or other general system failure. Failure of our internal information systems or material difficulties in upgrading our global financial system financial system could have material adverse effects on our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An effective internal control environment is necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent financial fraud. We are required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting. These evaluations may result in the conclusion that enhancements, modifications or changes to internal controls are necessary or desirable. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, the circumvention or override of controls, and human error and failure of judgment. Therefore, even effective internal controls cannot provide absolute assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm was to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or timely meet our reporting obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, such failure could subject us to investigation or sanctions by regulatory or self-regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the Nasdaq National Market. Any such actions could also result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or limit our access to external sources of capital. 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None Item 