Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We engage in a highly competitive business. Increased competition for professional services could reduce our market share and profits. There is intense competition to provide professional engineering, design, architectural, program management, systems consulting, construction and construction management services. The extent of our competition varies according to the industries and markets we serve as well as the geographic areas in which we operate. The degree and type of competition we face in the marketplace is also often influenced by the type and scope of projects for which we compete. For example, with respect to our construction and operations and maintenance services, clients generally award large projects (e.g., large design-build and program management projects) to large contractors. Some of our competitors are larger than us and may possess greater resources than we do, which may give them an advantage when bidding for certain of these large projects. Conversely, the relatively small amount of capital required for a business providing engineering, design, architectural, and consulting services creates a relative ease of market entry for a new entrant possessing acceptable professional qualifications and certifications. Accordingly, our competitors range from small, regional firms to large, national and international organizations. If we are unable to compete effectively in the geographic areas in which we operate, we may experience a loss of market share and reduced profitability. Our larger competitors for engineering, construction, and maintenance services for process plants include the Bechtel Group, Inc., Fluor Corporation, Foster Wheeler Corp., Washington Group International, Kellogg Brown & Root, Aker Kvaerner, Technip, and AMEC plc. In the area of buildings, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as HDR, Inc., Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, AeCOM Technology, Turner Construction, and Day & Zimmermann. In the area of infrastructure, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as Parsons Brinckerhoff, URS Corporation, HNTB, and W.S. Atkins. In the area of U.S. federal programs, our principal competitors include several of the companies listed above as well as the Shaw Group, SAIC, CH2M Hill, Weston Solutions, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Tetra Tech, and Computer Sciences Corporation. And in the area of pulp and paper, our principal competitors include BE&K, and AMEC plc. Our continued success is dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. There is intense demand for employees able to perform the services we provide. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain personnel, including engineers, architects, designers, and corporate management professionals, who have the necessary and required experience and expertise. In addition, there is significant demand for qualified craft personnel in the geographic areas where our construction and maintenance sites are located. In certain geographic Page 17 Table of Contents areas we may not be able to satisfy the demand for our services because of our inability to successfully hire and retain qualified personnel. If we cannot find and retain highly qualified and trained engineers, architects, designers and corporate management employees or hire skilled craft personnel as needed, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. The contracts in our backlog may be adjusted, cancelled or suspended by our clients. Additionally, even if fully performed, our backlog is not a good indicator of our future gross margins or gross profits. At September 30, 2006, our backlog totaled approximately $9.8 billion. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. In addition, our backlog is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that the amount of backlog in-hand at September 30, 2006 will actually be realized as revenues. The gross margins (i.e., contract revenue less direct costs of contracts) can vary considerably between contracts. One aspect of our business that can have a significant effect on the gross margins we realize on our contracts and projects is the amount of pass-through costs incurred. When we are directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement and construction of a project or the maintenance of a client’s plant or facility, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly, and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs. Since pass-through costs typically do not bring significant margins with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in revenues without experiencing a corresponding change in our gross margins. Additionally, the way we perform on our individual contracts can affect greatly our gross margins and hence, future profitability. In some of the markets we serve there is an increasing trend towards cost–reimbursable contracts with incentive-fee arrangements. Typically, our incentive fees are based on such things as: achievement of target completion dates or target costs; overall safety performance; overall client satisfaction, and/or other performance criteria. If we subsequently fail to meet such targets or achieve the expected performance standards, we may receive a lower, or even zero, incentive fee resulting in lower gross margins. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that the contracts in backlog, assuming they produce the revenues currently expected, will generate gross margins at the rates we have realized in the past. Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies pose additional risk relating to future funding and compliance. Contracts with the U.S. and other governments and their agencies are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions and regulations, including oversight audits by various government authorities and profit and cost controls. In the U.S., government contracts are also exposed to uncertainties associated with Congressional funding. The U.S. federal government is under no obligation to maintain funding at any specific level, and funds for a program may even be eliminated. In addition, U.S. government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other socio-economic requirements. For example, we must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards, the Service Contract Act and Department of Defense security regulations. We must also comply with various other government regulations and requirements as well as various statutes related to employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping and accounting. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing government contracts could be terminated, and we could be temporarily suspended or even debarred from government contracting or subcontracting. Page 18 Table of Contents We also run the risk of the effects of government audits, investigations and proceedings, and so-called “qui tam” actions brought by individuals or the government under the U.S. Federal False Claims Act that, if an unfavorable result occurs, could impact our profits and financial condition, as well as our ability to obtain future government work. For example, government agencies routinely review and audit government contractors. If these agencies determine that a rule or regulation has been violated, a variety of penalties can be imposed including criminal and civil penalties all of which would harm our reputation with the government or even debar us from future government activities. If one or more of our government contracts are terminated for any reason including for convenience, if we are suspended from government contract work, or if payment of our costs is disallowed, we could suffer a significant reduction in expected revenues and profits. We bear the risk of cost overruns in approximately 10% of the dollar-value of our contracts. We may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts if costs increase above our estimates. For the year ended September 30, 2006, approximately 10% of our revenues was earned under contracts that were either fixed-price or guaranteed maximum price in nature. For such contracts, we bear the risk of paying some, if not all, of any cost overruns. Under these fixed price and guaranteed maximum price contracts, contract prices are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates which are based on a number of assumptions, including assumptions about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If these estimates prove inaccurate, or circumstances change such as unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, cost of raw materials or our suppliers’ or subcontractors’ inability to perform, cost overruns may occur and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. Ambiguities as to contract specifications can also lead to cost-overruns. International operations, unfavorable political developments, natural disasters and weak foreign economies may seriously harm our financial condition. For the year ended September 30, 2006, approximately 35% of our revenues were earned from unaffiliated clients outside the United States. Our business is dependent on the continued success of our international operations, and we expect that our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. At a minimum, our reported financial condition and results of operations are exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, into the U.S. dollar. In addition, our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: • Recessions in foreign economies and the impact on our costs of doing business in those countries; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • The adoption of new, and the expansion of existing, trade restrictions; • Acts of war and terrorism; • The ability to finance efficiently our foreign operations; • Social, political and economic instability; • Limitations on the ability to repatriate foreign earnings; and • Natural disasters or other crises, such as the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome commonly known as SARS or Avian “bird” flu. Page 19 Table of Contents Our business is dependent on the timing and funding of new awards, and we are vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the markets in which are clients operate. We provide technical, professional, and construction services to clients operating in a number of markets including oil and gas exploration, production, and refining; long-term programs for various national governments, including the United States; chemicals and polymers; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; infrastructure; buildings; technology and manufacturing; and pulp and paper, among others. These individual markets are generally cyclical in nature. Because we are dependent on the timing and funding of new awards, we are therefore vulnerable to unanticipated downturns in our clients’ markets and industries. As a result, our past results have varied considerably and may continue to vary depending upon the demand for future projects in the industries listed above, and the geographic regions in which we operate. Rising inflation, interest rates and/or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services as well as decrease our profit on our existing contracts, in particular with respect to our fixed price contracts. Because a significant portion of our revenues is earned from cost-reimbursable type contracts (90%, 85%, and 83% during fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively) the effects of inflation on our financial condition and results of operations over the past few years have been generally minor. However, we bear all of the risk of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are fixed-price and may be at risk to the effects of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are guaranteed maximum-price. In addition, rising inflation, interest rates and/or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services. Furthermore, if we expand our business into markets and geographic areas where fixed-price and lump-sum work is more prevalent, inflation may have a larger impact on our results of operations in the future. Therefore, increases in inflation, interest rates and/or construction costs could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Our strategic plan relies in part on acquisitions to sustain our growth. Acquisitions of other companies present certain risks and uncertainties. Our strategic plan involves growth through, among other things, the acquisition of other companies. Such growth involves a number of risks, including: • Difficulties relating to combining previously separate businesses into a single, combined unit; • Diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations; • The assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including unforeseen liabilities; • Failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; • Potentially substantial transaction costs associated with business combinations; • Difficulties relating to assimilating the personnel, services and systems of an acquired business and to integrating marketing and other operational capabilities; and • Difficulties in applying and integrating our system of internal controls to an acquired business. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will continue to locate suitable acquisition targets or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Acquisitions may bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different than those we have traditionally experienced. In the event we issue stock as consideration for certain acquisitions we may make, we could dilute share ownership. We grow our business organically as well as through acquisitions. One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of additional equity Page 20 Table of Contents securities. If we do issue additional equity securities, such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing stockholders’ individual ownership percentages in the Company. The outcome of pending and future claims, and litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The nature of our business results in clients, subcontractors and vendors occasionally presenting claims against us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we occasionally present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. If we fail to properly document the nature of our claims or are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating reasonable settlements with our clients, vendors and subcontractors, we could incur cost overruns and experience reduced profits or, in some cases, suffer a loss for that project. In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. Generally, such guarantees relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved as a defendant relates to workers’ compensation, personal injury, environmental, employment/labor, professional liability, and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. However, we have elected to retain a portion of losses that may occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs which may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover or change of control. We are a Delaware corporation. Certain anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware general corporation law impose restrictions on the ability of others to acquire control of us. In addition, certain provisions of our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover. For example: • Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three year terms; • Only our Board of Directors can fill vacancies on the board; • There are various restrictions on the ability of a stockholder to nominate a director for election; and • Our Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preference shares. These types of provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Accordingly, stockholders may be limited in the ability to obtain a premium for their shares. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 