D. Risk Factors Macro-economic risk factors A slowdown in the market may result in a reduction of profitability An economic slowdown in Israel or globally and/or a deterioration of the political and security situation in Israel and outside Israel could have an adverse effect on the financial situation of the company and the group’s companies. In addition, these circumstances could reduce the demand for the company’s products, and as a result hurt sales, financial results and profitability. The global credit crunch and the economic slowdown in Israel and overseas in 2008 may negatively impact the Company’s position. These circumstances could also reduce demand, increase competition from imports and as a result damage sales, financial results and profitability. Future legal restriction may negatively affect the results of operations Our activities and the activities of our subsidiaries and associated companies’ are confined by legal constraints (such as government policy on various subjects, different requirements made by the authorities supervising environmental regulations and governmental decisions to raise minimum wages). These restrictions may affect our results of operations. 8 Any future rise in the inflation rate may negatively affect business Since the Company has significant excess liabilities linked to the Consumer Price Index, primarily in respect of bonds issued by the Company, amounting to NIS 356 million in total, a high inflation rate may cause significant financing expenses. The Company occasionally enters into hedging transactions to cover the said exposure on account of the liabilities. A high inflation rate may also impact payroll expenses, which are adjusted over time to changes in the consumer price index. In early 2009, the Company entered into hedging transactions for a period of one year, to protect itself against a rise in the CPI, in the amount of NIS 250 million, pursuant to previous transactions that were made in early 2008 and in August 2008 and terminated at the end of 2008. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuation The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and associated companies are exposed to risks on account of changes in exchange rates, whether due to the import of raw materials and finished goods, or due to exports to foreign markets. Changes in exchange rates of various currencies against the NIS may erode profit margins and cash flows. Approximately half of the Company’s sales are denominated in US dollars, whereas a significant share of its expenses and liabilities are in NIS. The Company is therefore exposed to exchange rate fluctuations of the NIS vis-à-vis the US dollar. Following the purchase of the equipment for machine 8, whose prices are presented in Euro, true to December 31, 2008, the company entered into Forward transactions on the euro for periods of up to 5 months, at a total sum of €20 million. The company also entered into sale and purchase transactions of options on the euro/shekel, whose redemption date is one week from the date of the report, for a period of up to one year, at a total of €5 million. We are exposed to Interest rate Risks The company is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily in respect of bonds it has issued in the amount of NIS 593 million, as of December 31, 2008. Risk Factors relating to the Company We faces significant competition in the markets we operate in The Company operates in the packaging paper and office supplies industries, both of which are highly competitive. In the packaging paper industry the Company faces competition from imported paper. In the office equipment sector the Company faces competition from many suppliers that operate in the Company’s markets. The associated companies are also exposed to competition in all of their operations. This competition may negatively affect the future results. For further information see the section titled – “Competition” in Item 4B below. We are exposed to increases in the cost of raw materials. The increase in the activity of the paper machines, which are based on paper waste as a recycled fiber, required increase of the paper collection volume to be used as raw material for production in the paper production sector, and location of more extensive collection sources. Consequently, upon start of operation of Machine 8, the Company would require twice as much paper waste. Absence of sufficient paper waste volume for production would impact the Company’s capacity to produce sufficient packaging paper. Absence of enforcement of the Recycling Act, which mandates waste recycling, would make it more difficult to obtain alternative sources for raw materials at a competitive cost. Nevertheless, approval of the Cleanliness Law in January 2007, which imposes a landfill levy on waste, may bring about, if effectively enforced, some improvement in the paper waste collection capacity, according to Company estimate. Furthermore, as to the prices of raw materials, primarily paper – which is a material component in the production cost of cardboard, and an increase in paper prices or in the prices of other raw materials and inputs, such as energy, electricity, transportation and starch – may impact Company profitability. There is an exposure in the associated companies resulting from fluctuation of prices of raw material and of the imported products, which arrive to Israel without tariffs or entrance barriers. Exceptional price increase of raw materials and imported products may have an adversary effect on these Companies’ profitability. 9 Account receivable risks Most of the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ sales are made in Israel to a large number of customers. Part of the sales is made without full security of payment. The exposure to credit risks relating to trade receivables is usually limited, due to the relatively large number of our customers. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers to determine the required amount of allowance for doubtful accounts. An appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts is included in the financial statements. The operations in Turkey may suffer as a result of the Turkish economy. The Company is exposed to various risks related to its activities in Turkey, where Hogla-Kimberly Ltd (“H-K”) operates through its subsidiary, Kimberly –Clark Turkey (“KCTR”). These risks result from economic instability and high inflation rates and exchange rate fluctuations, which have characterized the Turkish economy during the past years, and may be repeated and adversely affect KCTR’s activities. Risks associated with credit from banks The Company forms part of the I.D.B. Group and is influenced by the Israel Banking Supervisor’s “Correct Banking Management Regulations”, which includes amongst other things, limits to the volume of loans an Israeli bank can issue to a single borrower; a single “borrowing group” (as this term is defined in the said regulations), and to the six largest borrowers and “borrowing groups” at a bank corporation. I.D.B. Development, its controlling shareholders and some of the companies held thereby, are considered to be a single “borrowing group”. Under certain circumstances, this can influence the HAP Group’s ability to borrow additional sums from Israeli banks and to carry out certain business transactions in partnership with entities that drew on the aforesaid credit. For further information, see “Item 11 – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk”. Risk related to our paper and recycling business We are dependent on the transporter of natural gas to our plant in Hadera. In October 2007, we converted our energy-generation systems, currently based on heavy fuel oil, to natural gas (see Item 4 Section D below). The termination by the natural gas transporter of its agreement with us to transport the natural gas that we use at our facility in Hadera could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are dependent on a single source supplier of natural gas. In our paper and recycling operations, we are dependent on our current supplier of natural gas Yam Tethys, which as of the date of this annual report is the sole supplier of natural gas in Israel, for the supply of natural gas to our facility in Hadera. If our agreement with Yam Tethys is terminated, we would be required to contract with natural gas suppliers outside of Israel, or to convert back to fuel oil, which, as of the date of this annual report, is significantly more expensive than natural gas. If we are required to contract with alternative natural gas suppliers outside of Israel, such a transition would involve a substantial expense. Unforeseen or recurring operational problems and maintenance outages at any of our paper and recycling facilities may cause significant lost production. Our paper and recycling operations are concentrated in a small number of facilities in a limited number of locations. Our manufacturing process could be affected by operational problems that could impair our production capability. Each of our facilities contains complex and sophisticated machines that are used in our manufacturing process. Disruptions or shutdowns at any of our facilities could be caused by many factors, many of which are outside our control. If our facilities are shut down, they may experience prolonged startup periods, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Any prolonged disruption in operations of any of our facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our profitability may be affected by new environmental and safety laws and regulations and compliance expenditures. Certain aspects of our manufacturing operations are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental, and safety laws and regulations, which impose a substantial financial burden on our resources. Such financial expense is likely to increase as the public’s environmental awareness increases and laws and regulations impose additional obligations on us. In addition, as our operations involve the use of hazardous and poisonous materials, we may be exposed to litigation in connection with third-party damages, including tort liability and natural resource damages, relating to past or present releases of hazardous substances on or from our properties. We may be involved in administrative or judicial proceedings and inquiries in the future relating to such environmental matters which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 10 Under Israeli law, we are considered a “monopoly” and therefore subject to certain restrictions that may negatively impact our ability to grow our business in Israel. We have been declared a monopoly under the Israeli Restrictive Trade Practices Law, 1988, in the market for the manufacture and marketing of packaging paper. Under Israeli law, a monopoly is prohibited from taking certain actions, and the Commissioner of the Israeli Antitrust Authority has the right to intervene in matters that may adversely affect the public, including imposing business restrictions on a company declared a monopoly, including supervision of prices charged. The Israeli antitrust authority may further declare that we have abused our position in the market. Any such declaration in any suit in which it is claimed that we engage in anti-competitive conduct would serve as prima facie evidence that we are a monopoly or that we have engaged in anti-competitive behavior. Furthermore, we may be ordered to take or refrain from taking certain actions, such as set maximum prices, in order to protect against unfair competition. Despite all the above-mentioned, the Israeli antitrust authority had not intervened and/or imposed any restrictions upon us with regard to our declaration as a monopoly. Restraints on our operations as a result of being considered a “monopoly” in Israel could adversely affect our financial outcomes in the manufacture and marketing of packaging paper activity. Risk related to our office supplies business We are dependent on continued success in securing large tenders. The office supplies activity is conducted through securing large-scale tenders for defined and fixed periods of time. We cannot assure that in the future we and/or our subsidiaries will continue to be successful at securing these tenders. If we and/or our subsidiaries are unsuccessful in continually securing certain large-scale tenders, this may negatively impact our sales volume which, in turn, may adversely affect our profitability in the office supplies sector of our business. We are dependent on the ability of a wholly-owned subsidiary to maintain its current status as an exclusive distributor of certain international brands of office supplies. Graffiti Office Supplies & Paper Marketing Ltd., or Graffiti, our wholly owned subsidiary, through Atar Marketing Office Supplies Ltd., or Atar, also our wholly owned subsidiary, is the exclusive distributor of a number of international brands in the office supplies industry. If we were to lose exclusivity regarding one or more of these brands, this could adversely affect our profitability in this field. However, due to the fact that Graffiti is an exclusive agent for a number of providers, according to the assessment of Graffiti the effect of the aforementioned cancelation of exclusivity would not be material. Risks relating to our location in Israel Political, economic, and security conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products or provide our services We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, where we also maintain our headquarters and our principal manufacturing facilities. Specifically, we could be materially and adversely affected by: — any major hostilities involving Israel; — a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; — the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; or — a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Most recently, in December 2008, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas in Gaza Strip. In addition, in the summer of 2006, for approximately one month, battles took place between the Israeli military and Lebanese guerilla units. There is no indication as to how long the current hostilities will last or whether there will be any further escalation. Any continuation of or further escalation in these hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region may have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed toward Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. 11 Generally, all nonexempt male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel, including some of our officers and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually, and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since our incorporation, we cannot predict the full impact of such conditions on U.S. in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our business may be adversely affected. Furthermore, an economic slowdown in Israel or globally and/or a deterioration of the political and security situation in Israel and outside Israel could have an adverse effect on the financial situation of the Company and the Group’s companies. In addition, these circumstances could reduce the demand for the Company’s products, and as a result hurt sales, financial results and profitability. Risks relating to our ordinary shares Our shares are listed for trade on more than one stock exchange, and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading on NYSE Amex and on TASE. This may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on these markets in different currencies, U.S. dollars on NYSE Amex and New Israeli Shekels on TASE. These markets have different opening times and close on different days. Different trading times and differences in exchange rates, among other factors, may result in our shares being traded at a price differential on these two markets. In addition, market influences in one market may influence the price at which our shares are traded on the other. Any shareholder with a cause of action against us as a result of buying, selling or holding our ordinary shares may have difficulty asserting a claim under U.S. securities laws or enforcing a U.S. judgment against us or our officers, directors or Israeli auditors. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel, and we maintain most of our operations in Israel. Most of our officers and directors as well as our Israeli auditors reside outside of the United States and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, if you wish to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us, or our officers, directors and auditors, you will probably have to file a claim in an Israeli court. Additionally, you might not be able to bring civil actions under U.S. securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. We have been advised by our Israeli counsel that Israeli courts generally enforce a final executory judgment of a U.S. court for liquidated amounts in civil matters after a hearing in Israel. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. However, payment in the local currency of the country where the foreign judgment was given shall be acceptable, subject to applicable foreign currency restrictions. 