ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS General Risks We are subject to pricing pressure from our larger customers. We face significant competitive pressures in all of our business segments. Because of their purchasing size, our larger customers can influence market participants to compete on price terms. If we are not able to offset pricing reductions resulting from these pressures by improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those pricing reductions may have an adverse impact on our business. We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have significant operations in a number of countries outside the U.S., some of which are located in emerging markets. Long-term economic uncertainty in some of the regions of the world in which we operate, such as Asia, South America, the Middle East, Central Europe and other emerging markets, could result in the disruption of markets and negatively affect cash flows from our operations to cover our capital needs and debt service. In addition, as a result of our global presence, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We are therefore subject to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure. Our primary exposures are to the Euro, British pound, Japanese yen, Czech koruna, Mexican peso, Swiss franc and Chinese yuan. While we employ financial instruments to hedge transactional and foreign exchange exposure, these activities do not insulate us completely from those exposures. There are other risks that are inherent in our non-U.S. operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions, laws and regulations, including import, export, labor and environmental laws and monetary and fiscal policies, protectionist measures that may prohibit acquisitions or joint ventures, unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our non-U.S. operations and therefore on our business and results of operations. We are subject to regulation of our international operations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex and often times difficult to interpret and apply, may result in severe criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to costly requirements relating to environmental regulation and environmental remediation matters, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Because of uncertainties associated with environmental regulation and environmental remediation activities at sites where we may be liable, future expenses that we may incur to remediate identified sites could be considerably higher than the current accrued liability on our balance sheet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As of September 30, 2007, we recorded $27 million for environmental liabilities and $81 million in related conditional asset retirement obligations. Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of operations. Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations in several jurisdictions could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and other tax reserves on our statement of financial position that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, changes in statutory tax rates in the U.S. or in other countries where the Company has significant operations could materially affect deferred tax assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. 6 Table of Contents We are also subject to tax audits by governmental authorities in the U.S. and in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Negative unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could adversely affect our results of operations. Legal proceedings in which we are, or may be, a party may adversely affect us. We are currently and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes with our suppliers, intellectual property matters and employment claims. There exists the possibility that such claims may have an adverse impact on our results of operations that is greater than we anticipate. An increase in our level of indebtedness could lead to a downgrade in the ratings of our debt and, in turn, restrict our ability to access the debt capital markets. Changes in the ratings that rating agencies assign to our debt may ultimately impact our access to the debt capital markets. An increase in the level of our indebtedness in the future, to the extent that we finance future acquisitions with debt, for example, may result in a downgrade in the ratings that are assigned to our debt. If ratings for our debt fall below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets would become restricted. Additionally, several of our credit agreements generally include an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded. Further, an increase in the level of our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing. We may be unable to complete or integrate acquisitions effectively, which may adversely affect our growth, profitability and results of operations. We expect acquisitions of businesses and assets to play a role in our company’s future growth. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition targets, obtain financing for acquisitions on satisfactory terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Additionally, we may not be successful in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations and achieving projected synergies. Competition for acquisition opportunities in the various industries in which we operate may rise, thereby increasing our costs of making acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making further acquisitions. These and other acquisition-related factors may negatively and adversely impact our growth, profitability and results of operations. Building Efficiency Risks Our building efficiency business relies to a great extent on contracts and business with U.S. government entities, the loss of which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our building efficiency business contracts with government entities and is subject to specific rules, regulations and approvals applicable to government contractors. We are subject to routine audits by the Defense Contract Audit Agency to assure our compliance with these requirements. Our failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations could result in contract terminations, suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. federal government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution. In addition, changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, unexpected U.S. developments, such as terrorist attacks, or similar political developments or events abroad that may change the U.S. federal government’s national security defense posture may affect sales to government entities. A variety of other factors could adversely affect the results of operations of our building efficiency business. Any of the following could materially and adversely impact the results of operations of our building efficiency business: loss of, or changes in, building automation or facility management supply contracts with our major customers; delays or difficulties in new product development; the potential introduction of similar or superior technologies; financial instability or market declines of our major or component suppliers; the unavailability of raw materials, primarily steel, copper and electronic components, necessary for production of HVAC equipment; rapid increases and volatility of commodity prices; unseasonable weather conditions in various parts of the world; a significant decline in the construction of new commercial buildings requiring interior control systems; a significant decline in residential housing starts; changes in energy costs or governmental regulations that would decrease the incentive for customers to update or improve their interior control systems; 7 Table of Contents increased energy efficiency legislation requirements worldwide; a decline in the outsourcing of facility management services; and availability of labor to support growth of our service businesses. Automotive Experience Risks Decreased demand from our customers in the automotive industry may adversely affect our results of operations. In fiscal 2007, our three largest customers were automobile manufacturers Ford Motor Company, General Motors Corporation and DaimlerChrysler AG (now Daimler AG and Chrysler LLP) (the Detroit 3), with consolidated global net sales to these customers representing approximately 28% of total Company net sales. Sales to the Detroit 3 originating in the U.S. represented approximately 10% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2007. Our financial performance depends, in part, on conditions in the automotive industry. The Detroit 3 have experienced declining market shares in North America and have announced significant restructuring actions in an effort to improve profitability. The North American automotive manufacturers are also burdened with substantial structural costs, such as pension and healthcare costs, that have impacted their profitability and labor relations and may ultimately result in severe financial difficulty, including bankruptcy. If our customers, especially the Detroit 3, reduce their orders to us, it would adversely impact our results of operations. Additionally, we have significant component production for manufacturers of motor vehicles in the U.S., Europe, South America, Japan and other Asia/Pacific Rim countries. Continued uncertainty relating to the financial condition of the Detroit 3 and others in the automotive industry may have a negative impact on our business. The financial distress of our suppliers could harm our results of operations. Automotive industry conditions have adversely affected our supplier base. Lower production levels for some of our key customers and increases in certain raw material, commodity and energy costs have resulted in severe financial distress among many companies within the automotive supply base. Several large suppliers have filed for bankruptcy protection or ceased operations. The continuation of financial distress within the supplier base may lead to increased commercial disputes and possible supply chain interruptions. In addition, the adverse industry environment has required us to provide financial support to distressed suppliers or take other measures to ensure uninterrupted production. The continuation or worsening of these industry conditions may have a negative impact on our business. Change in consumer demand may adversely affect our results of operations. Recent and any future increases in energy costs that consumers incur is resulting in shifts in consumer demand away from motor vehicles that typically have higher amounts of content that we supply, such as light trucks, cross-over vehicles, minivans and SUVs, to smaller vehicles that have lower amounts of content that we supply. The loss of business with respect to, or a lack of commercial success of, one or more particular vehicle models for which we are a significant supplier could reduce our sales and harm our profitability, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully negotiate pricing terms with our customers in the automotive experience business, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We negotiate sales prices annually with our automotive seating and interiors customers. Cost-cutting initiatives that our customers have adopted generally result in increased downward pressure on pricing. Our customer supply agreements generally require reductions in component pricing over the period of production. Pricing pressures may further intensify, particularly in North America, as the Detroit 3 pursue restructuring and cost cutting initiatives to better compete with their non-U.S. competitors. If we are unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset price reductions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Increases in commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations. Commodity prices have risen rapidly in the past three years. In our two largest markets, North America and Europe, the cost of commodities, primarily steel, resin and chemicals, has increased (net of recoveries through price increases to customers). If commodity prices continue to rise, and if we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our customers, then such increases may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents The cyclicality of original equipment automobile production rates may adversely affect the results of operations in our automotive experience business. Our automotive experience business is directly related to automotive sales and automotive production by our customers. Automotive production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending and preferences. Any significant economic decline that results in a reduction in automotive production and sales by our automotive experience customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. A variety of other factors could adversely affect the results of operations of our automotive experience business. Any of the following could materially and adversely impact the results of operations of our automotive experience business: the loss of, or changes in, automobile seating and interiors supply contracts or sourcing strategies with our major customers or suppliers; inability to meet minimum vendor volume requirements; start-up expenses associated with new vehicle programs or delays or cancellations of such programs; underutilization of our manufacturing facilities, which are generally located near, and devoted to, a particular customer’s facility; inability to recover engineering and tooling costs; market and financial consequences of any recalls that may be required on products that we have supplied; delays or difficulties in new product development; the potential introduction of similar or superior technologies; and global overcapacity and vehicle platform proliferation. Power Solutions Risks We face increasing competition and pricing pressure from other companies in the power solutions business. The power solutions business competes with a number of major domestic and international manufacturers and distributors of lead-acid batteries, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. The North American, European and Asian lead-acid battery markets are highly competitive. The manufacturers in these markets compete on price, quality, technical innovation, service and warranty. If we are unable to remain competitive and maintain market share in the regions and markets we serve, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Increases in commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations. Lead is a major component of our lead acid batteries. Lead prices have risen dramatically in the past 18 months. If the price of lead continues to rise, and if we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our customers or with commodity hedging strategies, then such increases may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A variety of other factors could adversely affect the results of operations of our power solutions business. Any of the following could materially and adversely impact the results of operations of our power solutions business: loss of or changes in automobile battery supply contracts with our large original equipment and aftermarket customers; the increasing quality and useful life of batteries or use of alternative battery technologies, both of which may contribute to a growth slowdown in the lead-acid battery market; delays or cancellations of new vehicle programs; market and financial consequences of any recalls that may be required on our products; delays or difficulties in new product development, including nickel-metal-hydride/lithium-ion technology; financial instability or market declines of our customers or suppliers; the increasing global environmental regulation related to the manufacture of lead-acid batteries; and the lack of the development of a market for hybrid vehicles. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal 2007 that remain unresolved. 9 Table of Contents 