ITEM 1A RISK FACTORSGeneral RisksGeneral economic, credit and capital market conditions could adversely affect our financial performance, may affect our ability to grow or sustain our businesses and could negatively affect our ability to access the capital markets.We compete around the world in various geographic regions and product markets. Global economic conditions affect each of our three primary businesses. As we discuss in greater detail in the specific risk factors for each of our businesses that appear below, any future financial distress in the automotive industry or residential and commercial construction markets could negatively affect our revenues and financial performance in future periods, result in future restructuring charges, and adversely impact our ability to grow or sustain our businesses.The capital and credit markets provide us with liquidity to operate and grow our businesses beyond the liquidity that operating cash flows provide. A worldwide economic downturn and disruption of the credit markets could reduce our access to capital 7necessary for our operations and executing our strategic plan. If our access to capital were to become significantly constrained or costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing industry conditions, the volatility of the capital markets or other factors, then our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations that could adversely affect our results of operations.We have significant operations in a number of countries outside the U.S., some of which are located in emerging markets. Long-term economic uncertainty in some of the regions of the world in which we operate, such as Asia, South America, the Middle East, Central Europe and other emerging markets, could result in the disruption of markets and negatively affect cash flows from our operations to cover our capital needs and debt service.In addition, as a result of our global presence, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We are therefore subject to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure. Our primary exposures are to the euro, British pound, Japanese yen, Czech koruna, Mexican peso, Romanian lei, Hungarian forint, Polish zloty, Canadian dollar and Chinese renminbi. While we employ financial instruments to hedge some of our transactional foreign exchange exposure, these activities do not insulate us completely from those exposures. Exchange rates can be volatile and could adversely impact our financial results and comparability of results from period to period.There are other risks that are inherent in our non-U.S. operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions, laws and regulations, including import, export, labor and environmental laws, and monetary and fiscal policies; protectionist measures that may prohibit acquisitions or joint ventures, or impact trade volumes; unsettled political conditions; government-imposed plant or other operational shutdowns; backlash from foreign labor organizations related to our restructuring actions; corruption; natural and man-made disasters, hazards and losses; violence, civil and labor unrest, and possible terrorist attacks.These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our non-U.S. operations and therefore on our business and results of operations.We are subject to regulation of our international operations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and commercial customers, and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.K. Bribery Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Global climate change could negatively affect our business.Increased public awareness and concern regarding global climate change may result in more regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gas emissions. There continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. Such regulatory uncertainty extends to future incentives for energy efficient buildings and vehicles and costs of compliance, which may impact the demand for our products, obsolescence of our products and our results of operations. There is a growing consensus that greenhouse gas emissions are linked to global climate changes. Climate changes, such as extreme weather conditions, create financial risk to our business. For example, the demand for our products and services, such as residential air conditioning equipment and automotive replacement batteries, may be affected by unseasonable weather conditions. Climate changes could also disrupt our operations by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing and could increase insurance and other operating costs. These factors may impact our decisions to construct new facilities or maintain existing facilities in areas most prone to physical climate risks. The Company could also face indirect financial risks passed through the supply chain, and process disruptions due to physical climate changes could result in price modifications for our products and the resources needed to produce them.Regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012, the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals in their products. Accordingly, we began our reasonable country of origin inquiries in fiscal 82013, with our initial disclosure relating to conflict minerals occurring in May 2014. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Our continued compliance with these disclosure rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering "conflict free" conflict minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement.We are subject to requirements relating to environmental regulation and environmental remediation matters, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Because of uncertainties associated with environmental regulation and environmental remediation activities at sites where we may be liable, future expenses that we may incur to remediate identified sites could be considerably higher than the current accrued liability on our consolidated statement of financial position, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Risks related to our defined benefit retirement plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.Significant changes in actual investment return on defined benefit plan assets, discount rates, mortality assumptions and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and the amounts of contributions we must make to our defined benefit plans in future periods. As we mark-to-market our defined benefit plan assets and liabilities on an annual basis, large non-cash gains or losses could be recorded in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. Funding requirements for our defined benefit plans are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to defined benefit funding obligations. For a discussion regarding the significant assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost, refer to "Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies" included in Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."We may be unable to realize the expected benefits of our restructuring actions, which could adversely affect our profitability and operations. In order to align our resources with our growth strategies, operate more efficiently and control costs, we periodically announce restructuring plans, which include workforce reductions, global plant closures and consolidations, asset impairments and other cost reduction initiatives. We may undertake additional restructuring actions and workforce reductions in the future. As these plans and actions are complex, unforeseen factors could result in expected savings and benefits to be delayed or not realized to the full extent planned, and our operations and business may be disrupted. Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of operations.Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations in several jurisdictions could lead to additional changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and other tax reserves on our statement of financial position, and the future sale of certain businesses could potentially result in the repatriation of accumulated foreign earnings that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, changes in tax laws in the U.S. or in other countries where we have significant operations could materially affect deferred tax assets and liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial position and income tax provision on our consolidated statement of income.We are also subject to tax audits by governmental authorities in the U.S. and in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Negative unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could adversely affect our results of operations.Legal proceedings in which we are, or may be, a party may adversely affect us.We are currently and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes with our suppliers, intellectual property matters, third party liability, including product liability claims and employment claims. There exists the possibility that such claims may have an adverse impact on our results of operations that is greater than we anticipate.9An investigation by the European Commission (EC) related to European lead recyclers’ procurement practices is currently underway, with the Company one of several named companies subject to review. The Company cannot predict the ultimate financial impact, as the investigation is at a preliminary stage. We will continue to cooperate with the EC in their investigation and monitor related commercial and financial implications, if any. The Company’s policy is to comply with antitrust and competition laws and, if a violation of any such laws is found, to take appropriate remedial action and to cooperate fully with any related governmental inquiry. Competition and antitrust law investigations may continue for several years and can result in substantial fines depending on the gravity and duration of the violations.A downgrade in the ratings of our debt could restrict our ability to access the debt capital markets and increase our interest costs.Changes in the ratings that rating agencies assign to our debt may ultimately impact our access to the debt capital markets and the costs we incur to borrow funds. If ratings for our debt fall below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets would become restricted. Tightening in the credit markets and the reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets due to turmoil in the financial and banking industries could affect our access to the debt capital markets or the price we pay to issue debt. Historically, we have relied on our ability to issue commercial paper rather than to draw on our credit facility to support our daily operations, which means that a downgrade in our ratings or volatility in the financial markets causing limitations to the debt capital markets could have an adverse effect on our business or our ability to meet our liquidity needs.Additionally, several of our credit agreements generally include an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded. Further, an increase in the level of our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing.We are subject to potential insolvency or financial distress of third parties.We are exposed to the risk that third parties to various arrangements who owe us money or goods and services, or who purchase goods and services from us, will not be able to perform their obligations or continue to place orders due to insolvency or financial distress. If third parties fail to perform their obligations under arrangements with us, we may be forced to replace the underlying commitment at current or above market prices or on other terms that are less favorable to us. In such events, we may incur losses, or our results of operations, financial position or liquidity could otherwise be adversely affected.We may be unable to complete or integrate acquisitions effectively, which may adversely affect our growth, profitability and results of operations.We expect acquisitions of businesses and assets to play a role in our future growth. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition targets, obtain financing for acquisitions on satisfactory terms, successfully acquire identified targets or manage timing of acquisitions with capital obligations across our businesses. Additionally, we may not be successful in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations and achieving projected synergies. Competition for acquisition opportunities in the various industries in which we operate may rise, thereby increasing our costs of making acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making further acquisitions. We are also subject to applicable antitrust laws and must avoid anticompetitive behavior. These and other acquisition-related factors may negatively and adversely impact our growth, profitability and results of operations.We are subject to business continuity risks associated with centralization of certain administrative functions.We have been and are in the process of regionally centralizing certain administrative functions, primarily in North America, Europe and Asia, to improve efficiency and reduce costs. To the extent that these central locations are disrupted or disabled, key business processes, such as invoicing, payments and general management operations, could be interrupted.A failure of our information technology (IT) infrastructure could adversely impact our business and operations.We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to the changing needs of our business. For example, we are implementing a global enterprise resource planning system over a period of several years in addition to other IT systems in certain of our businesses. As we implement the new systems, they may not perform as expected. We also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades. If we experience a problem with the functioning of an important IT system or a security breach of our IT systems, the resulting disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business.We and certain of our third-party vendors receive and store personal information in connection with our human resources operations and other aspects of our business. Despite our implementation of security measures, our IT systems are vulnerable to damages 10from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber attack and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. A material network breach in the security of our IT systems could include the theft of our intellectual property, trade secrets or customer information. To the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or an inappropriate disclosure of confidential or customer information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, lead to claims against the Company and ultimately harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.Our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel.Our ability to sustain and grow our business requires us to hire, retain and develop a highly skilled and diverse management team and workforce. Failure to ensure that we have the leadership capacity with the necessary skill set and experience could impede our ability to deliver our growth objectives and execute our strategic plan. Organizational and reporting changes as a result of our leadership transition and quantity of corporate initiatives could result in increased turnover. Additionally, any unplanned turnover or inability to attract and retain key employees could have a negative effect on our results of operations.Building Efficiency RisksFailure to comply with regulations due to our contracts with U.S. government entities could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our Building Efficiency business contracts with government entities and is subject to specific rules, regulations and approvals applicable to government contractors. We are subject to routine audits by the Defense Contract Audit Agency to assure our compliance with these requirements. Our failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations could result in contract terminations, suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. federal government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution. In addition, changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, unexpected U.S. developments, such as terrorist attacks, or similar political developments or events abroad that may change the U.S. federal government’s national security defense posture may affect sales to government entities.Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations.Increases in commodity costs negatively impact the profitability of orders in backlog as prices on those orders are fixed; therefore, in the short-term we cannot adjust for changes in commodity prices. If we are not able to recover commodity cost increases through price increases to our customers on new orders, then such increases will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, unfavorability in our hedging programs during a period of declining commodity prices could result in lower margins as we reduce prices to match the market on a fixed commodity cost level.Conditions in the commercial and residential new construction markets may adversely affect our results of operations.HVAC equipment sales in the commercial and residential new construction markets correlate to the number of new buildings and homes that are built. The strength of the commercial and residential markets depends in part on the availability of commercial and consumer financing for our customers, along with inventory and pricing of existing buildings and homes. If economic and credit market conditions decline, it may result in a decline in the construction of new commercial buildings and residential housing construction market. Such conditions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and result in potential liabilities or additional costs, including impairment charges.A variety of other factors could adversely affect the results of operations of our Building Efficiency business.Any of the following could materially and adversely impact the results of operations of our Building Efficiency business: loss of, changes in, or failure to perform under facility management supply contracts or other guaranteed performance contracts with our major customers; cancellation of, or significant delays in, projects in our backlog; delays or difficulties in new product development; the potential introduction of similar or superior technologies; financial instability or market declines of our major component suppliers; the unavailability of raw materials (primarily steel, copper and electronic components) necessary for production of HVAC equipment; price increases of limited-source components, products and services that we are unable to pass on to the market; unseasonable weather conditions in various parts of the world; changes in energy costs or governmental regulations that would decrease the incentive for customers to update or improve their building control systems; revisions to energy efficiency or refrigerant legislation; a decline in the outsourcing of facility management services; availability of labor to support growth of our service businesses; and natural or man-made disasters or losses that impact our ability to deliver facility management and other products and services to our customers.11Automotive Experience RisksConditions in the automotive industry may adversely affect our results of operations.Our financial performance depends, in part, on conditions in the automotive industry. In fiscal 2014, our largest customers globally were automobile manufacturers Ford Motor Company (Ford), Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. (Chrysler), General Motors Corporation (GM), Daimler AG and Volkswagen AG (VW). If automakers experience a decline in the number of new vehicle sales, we may experience reductions in orders from these customers, incur write-offs of accounts receivable, incur impairment charges or require additional restructuring actions beyond our current restructuring plans, particularly if any of the automakers cannot adequately fund their operations or experience financial distress.Uncertainty related to the economic conditions in Europe may adversely affect our results of operations.Automakers across Europe are experiencing difficulties from a weakened economy and tightening credit markets. As a result, we have experienced and may continue to experience reductions in orders from these OEM customers. A prolonged downturn in the European automotive industry or a significant change in product mix due to consumer demand could require us to shut down additional plants or result in additional impairment charges, restructuring actions or changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Continued uncertainty relating to the economic conditions in Europe may continue to have an adverse impact on our business.We are subject to pricing pressure from our automotive customers.We face significant competitive pressures in all of our business segments. Because of their purchasing size, our automotive customers can influence market participants to compete on price terms. If we are not able to offset pricing reductions resulting from these pressures by improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those pricing reductions may have an adverse impact on our business.Financial distress of the automotive supply chain could harm our results of operations.Automotive industry conditions could adversely affect the original equipment supplier base. Lower production levels for key customers, increases in certain raw material, commodity and energy costs and global credit market conditions could result in financial distress among many companies within the automotive supply base. Financial distress within the supplier base may lead to commercial disputes and possible supply chain interruptions, which in turn could disrupt our production. In addition, an adverse industry environment may require us to provide financial support to distressed suppliers or take other measures to ensure uninterrupted production, which could involve additional costs or risks. If any of these risks materialize, we are likely to incur losses, or our results of operations, financial position or liquidity could otherwise be adversely affected.Change in consumer demand may adversely affect our results of operations.Increases in energy costs or other factors (e.g., climate change concerns) may shift consumer demand away from motor vehicles that typically have higher interior content that we supply, such as light trucks, cross-over vehicles, minivans and SUVs, to smaller vehicles having less interior content. The loss of business with respect to, or a lack of commercial success of, one or more particular vehicle models for which we are a significant supplier could reduce our sales and harm our profitability, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations.We may not be able to successfully negotiate pricing terms with our customers in the Automotive Experience business, which may adversely affect our results of operations.We negotiate sales prices annually with our automotive customers. Cost-cutting initiatives that our customers have adopted generally result in increased downward pressure on pricing. In some cases our customer supply agreements require reductions in component pricing over the period of production. If we are unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset price reductions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In particular, large commercial settlements with our customers may adversely affect our results of operations or cause our financial results to vary on a quarterly basis.Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations.Commodity prices can be volatile from year to year. If commodity prices rise, and if we are not able to recover these cost increases from our customers, these increases will have an adverse effect on our results of operations.12The cyclicality of original equipment automobile production rates may adversely affect the results of operations in our Automotive Experience business.The financial performance of our Automotive Experience business is directly related to automotive production by our customers. Automotive production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending and preferences. An economic decline that results in a reduction in automotive production by our Automotive Experience customers could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.A variety of other factors could adversely affect the results of operations of our Automotive Experience business.Any of the following could materially and adversely impact the results of operations of our Automotive Experience business: the loss of, or changes in, automobile supply contracts, sourcing strategies or customer claims with our major customers or suppliers; start-up expenses associated with new vehicle programs or delays or cancellations of such programs; underutilization of our manufacturing facilities, which are generally located near, and devoted to, a particular customer’s facility; inability to recover engineering and tooling costs; market and financial consequences of any recalls that may be required on products that we have supplied; delays or difficulties in new product development and integration; quantity and complexity of new program launches, which are subject to our customers’ timing, performance, design and quality standards; interruption of supply of certain single-source components; the potential introduction of similar or superior technologies; changing nature and prevalence of our joint ventures and relationships with our strategic business partners; global overcapacity and vehicle platform proliferation; and potential complications or the failure to consummate the anticipated joint venture formation for a majority of our Interiors business.Power Solutions RisksWe face competition and pricing pressure from other companies in the Power Solutions business.Our Power Solutions business competes with a number of major domestic and international manufacturers and distributors of lead-acid batteries, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. The North American, European and Asian lead-acid battery markets are highly competitive. The manufacturers in these markets compete on price, quality, technical innovation, service and warranty. If we are unable to remain competitive and maintain market share in the regions and markets we serve, our results of operations may be adversely affected.Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations.Lead is a major component of our lead-acid batteries, and the price of lead may be highly volatile. We attempt to manage the impact of changing lead prices through the recycling of used batteries returned to us by our aftermarket customers, commercial terms and commodity hedging programs. Our ability to mitigate the impact of lead price changes can be impacted by many factors, including customer negotiations, inventory level fluctuations and sales volume/mix changes, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Additionally, the prices of other commodities, primarily fuel, acid, resin and tin, may be volatile. If other commodity prices rise, and if we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our customers, such increases will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Moreover, the implementation of any price increases to our customers could negatively impact demand for our products.Decreased demand from our customers in the automotive industry may adversely affect our results of operations.Our financial performance in the Power Solutions business depends, in part, on conditions in the automotive industry. Sales to OEMs accounted for approximately 26% of the total sales of the Power Solutions business in fiscal 2014. Declines in the North American, European and Asian automotive production levels could reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any OEMs reach a point where they cannot fund their operations, we may incur write-offs of accounts receivable, incur impairment charges or require additional restructuring actions beyond our current restructuring plans.A variety of other factors could adversely affect the results of operations of our Power Solutions business.Any of the following could materially and adversely impact the results of operations of our Power Solutions business: loss of, or changes in, automobile battery supply contracts with our large original equipment and aftermarket customers; the increasing quality and useful life of batteries or use of alternative battery technologies, both of which may adversely impact the lead-acid battery market, including replacement cycle; delays or cancellations of new vehicle programs; market and financial consequences of any recalls that may be required on our products; delays or difficulties in new product development, including lithium-ion technology; 13impact of potential increases in lithium-ion battery volumes on established lead-acid battery volumes as lithium-ion battery technology grows and costs become more competitive; financial instability or market declines of our customers or suppliers; slower than projected market development in emerging markets; interruption of supply of certain single-source components; changing nature of our joint ventures and relationships with our strategic business partners; unseasonable weather conditions in various parts of the world; increasing global environmental and safety regulations related to the manufacturing and recycling of lead-acid batteries, and transportation of battery materials; our ability to secure sufficient tolling capacity to recycle batteries; price and availability of battery cores used in recycling; and the lack of the development of a market for hybrid and electric vehicles.ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThe Company has no unresolved written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC.14