RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves certain risks relating to our structure and investment objectives. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face, and we face other risks which are not yet predictable. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We Have A Limited Operating History As A Business Development Company And As A Regulated Investment Company, Which May Impair Your Ability To Assess Our Prospects. Prior to our August 2004 election to be regulated as a business development company under the Investment Company Act, we had not operated as a business development company or as a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, we have limited operating results under these regulatory frameworks that can demonstrate to you either their effect on our business or our ability to manage our business under these frameworks. In addition, prior to our initial public offering, our management had no prior experience managing a business development company or regulated investment company. We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate successfully as a business development company and a regulated investment company. We Are Dependent Upon Our Key Management Personnel For Our Future Success, Particularly Jeffrey Sternberg. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our sole officer Jeffrey Sternberg. Jeffrey Sternberg, together with other investment professionals, will evaluate, negotiate, structure, close, monitor and service our investments. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of Mr. Sternberg who devotes substantially all of his business time to our operations. Although Mr. Sternberg is subject to an employment contract, his departure could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. Because There Is Generally No Established Market For Which To Value Our Investments, Our Board Of Directors’ Determination Of The Value Of Our Investments May Differ Materially From The Values That A Ready Market Or Third Party Would Attribute To These Investments. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by our board. We are not permitted to maintain a general reserve for anticipated loan losses. Instead, we are required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each individual investment and to record any unrealized depreciation for any asset that we believe has decreased in value. Because there is typically no public market for the loans and equity securities of the companies in which we invest, our board will determine the fair value of these loans and equity securities on a quarterly basis pursuant to our valuation policy. These determinations of fair value necessarily will be somewhat subjective. Accordingly, these values may differ significantly from the values that would be determined by a third party or placed on the portfolio if there existed a market for our loans and equity securities. We May Not Effectively Manage The Growth Necessary To Execute Our Business Plan, Including Successfully Identifying Companies In Which To Invest, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Operations And Increase Our Costs. In order to achieve an increased level of investment activity necessary to successfully execute our business plan, we must significantly increase the number of investments that we make and the companies that utilize our financial products and services. This growth will place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources. We also expect that we will continue to hire employees, including finance and management-level employees for the foreseeable future. To successfully implement our business plan, we need to successfully identify companies in which to invest. We have only started investing in companies and can provide no assurances that we will be successful identifying prospects. Further, we will have to quickly rely on new employees to assist us with the execution of our business plan and we will not know for months or years, how successful they or we are at identifying such prospects. Additionally, this growth will require us to improve management, information technology and accounting systems, controls and procedures. We may not be able to maintain the quality of our operations, control our costs, continue complying with all applicable regulations and expand our internal management, information technology and accounting systems in order to support our desired growth. We cannot be sure that we will manage our growth effectively, and our failure to do so could cause us to reduce or cease operations. We depend on recruiting and retaining qualified personnel and our inability to do so would seriously harm our business. Because of the specialized nature of our services and the market in which we compete, our success depends on the continued services of our current executive officers and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel with significant expertise. New employees generally require substantial training, which requires significant resources and management attention. Even if we invest significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be successful in our efforts. We Make Loans To And Invest In Primarily Small And Medium-Sized Privately Owned Companies, Which May Default On Their Loans, Thereby Reducing Or Eliminating The Return On Our Investments. Our portfolio primarily consists of loans to and securities issued by small- and medium-sized privately owned businesses. Compared to larger publicly owned firms, these companies may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, may have more limited access to capital and higher funding costs, may have a weaker financial position, and may need more capital to expand or compete. These businesses also may experience substantial variations in operating results. They may face intense competition, including from companies with greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Typically, they also depend for their success on the management talents and efforts of an individual or a small group of persons. The death, disability or resignation of any of their key employees could harm their financial condition. Furthermore, some of these companies do business in regulated industries and could be affected by changes in government regulation. Accordingly, these factors could impair their cash flow or result in other events, such as bankruptcy, which could limit their ability to repay their obligations to us, and may adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, our investment in these businesses. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in any collateral for the loan. Some of these companies may be unable to obtain financing from public capital markets or from traditional credit sources, such as commercial banks. Accordingly, advances made to these types of customers may entail a higher risk of loss than advances made to customers who are able to utilize traditional credit sources. These conditions may also make it difficult for us to obtain repayment of our loans. Furthermore, there is generally no publicly available information about such companies and we must rely on the diligence of our employees to obtain information in connection with our investment decisions. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision and we may lose money on our investments. Because We Generally Do Not Hold Controlling Equity Interests In Our Portfolio Companies, We May Not Be In A Position To Exercise Control Over Our Portfolio Companies Or To Prevent Decisions By Management Of Our Portfolio Companies That Could Decrease The Value Of Our Investments. Although we may do so in the future, to date we have generally not taken controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. We May Change Our Investment Policies Without Further Stockholder Approval. Although we are limited by the Investment Company Act of 1940 with respect to the percentage of our assets that must be invested in qualified investment companies, we are not limited with respect to the minimum standard that any investment company must meet, nor the industries in which those investment companies must operate. We may make investments without shareholder approval and such investments may deviate significantly from our historic operations. Any change in our investment policy or selection of investments could adversely affect our stock price, liquidity, and the ability of our shareholders to sell their stock. Our Investments May Not Generate Sufficient Income to Cover Our Operations. We intend to make investments into qualified companies that will provide the greatest overall return on our investment. However, certain of those investments may fail, in which case we will not receive any return on our investment. In addition, our investments may not generate income, either in the immediate future, or at all. As a result, we may have to sell additional stock, or borrow money, to cover our operating expenses. The effect of such actions could cause our stock price to decline or, if we are not successful in raising additional capital, we could cease to continue as a going concern. If We Fail To Qualify As A Regulated Investment Company, We Will Have To Pay Corporate-Level Taxes On Our Income And Our Income Available For Distribution Would Be Reduced. We intend to elect to be taxed for federal income tax purposes as a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code with the filing of our federal corporate income tax return for 2004, which election would be effective as of January 1, 2004. If we can meet certain requirements, including source of income, asset diversification and distribution requirements, as well as if we continue to qualify as a business development company, we will qualify to be a regulated investment company and will not have to pay corporate-level taxes on any income we distribute to our stockholders as dividends, allowing us to substantially reduce or eliminate our corporate-level tax liability. In addition, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to make distributions to our stockholders because in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. If we fail to qualify as a regulated investment company, we will have to pay corporate-level taxes on all of our income whether or not we distribute it, which would substantially reduce the amount of income available for distribution to our stockholders. Even if we qualify as a regulated investment company, we generally will be subject to a corporate-level income tax on the income we do not distribute. Moreover, if we do not distribute at least 98% of our income, we generally will be subject to a 4% excise tax. See “Regulation as a Business Development Company” and “Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations--Taxation as a Regulated Investment Company”. Regulations Governing Our Operation As A Business Development Company Will Affect Our Ability To, And The Way In Which We, Raise Additional Capital. We have issued debt securities and may issue debt securities and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of Advantage Capital and its stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K may contain forward-looking statements. This information may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements, which involve assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words “may,” “should,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “intend” or “project” or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding, among other things, (a)our projected sales and profitability, (b) our growth strategies, (c) anticipated trends in our industry, (d) our future financing plans and (e) our anticipated needs for working capital. These statements may be found under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operations” and “Business,” as well as in this Form 10-K generally. Actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, without limitation, the risks outlined under “Risk Factors” and matters described in this Form 10-K generally. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will in fact occur. 