Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Ownership Structure The controlling shareholder group may be able to vote its shares in favor of its interests that may not always coincide with the interests of shareholders not part of such group. This risk may be counter-balanced to a degree by the actions of the Board of Directors whose composition is made up of a majority of independent directors. The controlling shareholder group includes a corporation that owns a significant percentage of the Company’s common stock and which does business with the Company, as further described in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In theory, this could result in a conflict of interest; nevertheless, the Company and its largest shareholder have put in place some controls to reduce the effects of any perceived conflict of interest. Certain conflicts of interest may be perceived by the relationship between the Company and its largest shareholder. Both entities have the same Chief Executive Officer, and certain management personnel work for both entities. Nevertheless, the Company’s Board of Directors is composed of a majority of independent directors. As recently as 2005, in a case involving both entities, the Delaware Supreme Court in connection with an attempt to obtain books and records of the Company through a proceeding against the Company’s significant shareholder, held that the actions of the Company’s Board were proper. 1 Risks Related to Our Business We are a part of the communities in which we do business. Accordingly, like other businesses in our communities, we are subject to the following risks: • the continued threat of terrorism; • economic downturns, both on a national and on local scales; • loss of key personnel; • the availability, if needed, of additional financing; • the continued availability of insurance (in different types of policies) at reasonably acceptable rates; and • the general burdens of governmental regulation, at the Local, State and Federal levels. Risks Related to Real Estate Operations Our investment in property development may be limited by increasing costs required to “fit up” property to be leased to tenants. Also, as the cost of fitting up properties increases, we may be required to wait and forsake opportunities that would be revenue producing until such time that we obtain the necessary financing of such ventures. This risk may be mitigated by our obtaining of lines of credit and other financing vehicles, although such have significant limitations on the amounts that may be borrowed at any point in time. We also may be subject to environmental liability as an owner or operator of properties. Many of our properties are old and when we need to fit up a property for a new tenant, we may find materials and the like that could be deemed to contain hazardous elements requiring remediation or encapsulation. We try to lease our properties to tenants with adequate finances, but as a result of the recent economic downturn, even formerly financially strong tenants may be at risk. The Company is trying to mitigate the latter by leasing our properties to multiple tenants where applicable in order to diversify the tenant base. Risks Related to our Investments Excess cash and cash equivalents may be invested from time to time. We seek to earn rates of return that will help us finance our business operations. These investments may be subject to significant uncertainties and may not be successful for many reasons, including, but not limited to the following: • fluctuations in interest rates; • worsening of general economic and market conditions; and • adverse legal, financial and regulatory developments that may affect a particular business. Risk Factors Summary These are some of the “Risk Factors” that could affect the Company’s business. The Company endeavors to take actions and do business in a way that reduces these “Risk Factors” or, at least, takes them into account when conducting its business. Nevertheless, some of these “Risk Factors” cannot be avoided so that the Company must also take actions and do business that negates the adverse effects that these may have on the ongoing business of the Company. 2 