Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Index to Consolidated Financial Statements Exhibit Index SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain statements of a non-historical nature under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “should,” or “continue” or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or from those results currently anticipated or projected. Such factors include, among other things, the following: changes in consumer purchasing; demand for and market acceptance of new and existing products; the impact from competition for recorded music; the outcome of legal proceedings; dependence on suppliers and distributors; success of marketing and promotion efforts; technological changes and difficulties; availability of financing; foreign currency variations; general economic, political and business conditions; and other matters. See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A for additional information. We undertake no obligation to release publicly the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. 3 PART I ITEM 1: BUSINESS K-tel International, Inc. (the “Company”, “K-tel” or the “registrant”) was incorporated in 1968 and currently has its corporate offices located in Plymouth, Minnesota. Through its operating subsidiaries, K-tel licenses its music catalog internationally and markets entertainment products mainly derived from its catalog through retail and direct response marketing channels in the United States and Europe. The Company has a focused method of distribution that targets the strengths of selected individual retailers and supplies products suited to each retailer’s needs. These products are derived mainly from the Company’s master recordings music catalog with the objective of realizing more competitive profit margins. K-tel seeks to license its name and trademarks to other companies. Licenses are granted for a royalty or fee, with no cost to the Company. Description of Businesses Music Licensing and Sales K-tel’s primary activity is licensing music to other record companies and to other segments of the entertainment industry. K-tel owns a proprietary master music catalog of approximately 6,000 titles consisting of original recordings and re-recordings of music from the 1950’s through today. The Company licenses the rights to its master recordings to third parties worldwide for use in albums. The Company also licenses its master recordings for films, television programs, commercials and electronic downloads to various media formats, for either a flat fee or a royalty based on the number of units sold. Licensing of its proprietary music rights to third parties has historically been an important revenue source for K-tel. The Company also markets and distributes pre-recorded compact discs utilizing the Company’s master recordings in its music catalog. Customers include retailers, wholesalers and rack service distributors. These products are also sold through subsidiaries and licensees in the United States, United Kingdom and elsewhere in Europe. The principal entertainment products that K-tel markets and sells consist primarily of pre-recorded thematic music packages in a compilation format featuring various artists. These thematic music selections, which cover nearly all music genres, are targeted at a variety of age groups. K-tel provides marketing support for its music sales through cooperative advertising with retailers, print media, radio and television advertising, and in-store promotions and displays. One customer, I Tunes, accounted for approximately 15.2% of K-tel’s revenue for the year ended June 30, 2006. The loss of, or a substantial reduction in, business from this customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company. K-tel delivers music products through licensing its master music catalog to other music companies, through electronic downloads of the Company’s master music catalog and sales of CDs through traditional wholesale and retail distribution channels. Digital music distribution provides both significant risks and opportunities for K-tel. The risks include K-tel’s uncertain ability to compete with other music companies from a marketing and technological standpoint. The Company believes there are additional opportunities to license its owned library of master recordings and is pursuing alternative licensing and distribution opportunities. The Company’s ability to continue its present operations and implement future expansion plans successfully is contingent mainly upon its ability to maintain its line of credit arrangements with K-5 Leisure Products, Inc., the Company’s largest shareholder which is controlled by Philip Kives, the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of K-tel (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements), increase its revenues and profit margins, and ultimately attain and sustain profitable operations. Without increased revenues and sustained profitability, the cash generated from the Company’s current operations will likely be inadequate to fund operations and service the Company’s indebtedness on an ongoing basis. Management is focusing its efforts on music licensing and music distribution. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve profitable operations through these efforts or be able to continue operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. Competition The music business is highly competitive. K-tels competitors include national and regional companies; certain of these competitors (Sony BMG Corp., Time Warner, Inc. and EMI) dominate the market for licensing and pre-recorded music. K-tel does not have the financial resources, nor does it have the depth or breadth of catalog, distribution capabilities or current repertoire of these companies. K-tel’s ability to compete in the future depends upon a number of factors, including its ability to: 4 · obtain licenses with independent music labels and manufacturers; · expand the customer base for the Company’s master music catalog for digital downloads; and · build upon and maintain its reputation for licensing, producing, marketing and distributing high quality music. The major pre-recorded music companies, either directly or through subsidiaries, now manufacture and distribute pre-recorded music compilations in direct competition with K-tel’s music compilation products. With this competition, the Company relies on its own Dominion master music catalog for the production of music compilations. Intellectual Property The Company believes that the K-tel® name and mark are well recognized and are therefore valuable assets of the Company. The Company pursues the registration of its trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Effective trademark, service mark and copyright protection may not be available in every country in which the Company’s products and services are made available. Federal and state trademark registrations continue indefinitely, so long as the trademarks are in use and periodic renewals and other required filings are made. The Company regards its copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to its success, and relies on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with its employees, customers, partners and others to protect its proprietary rights. K-tel believes strongly in protecting its intellectual property and will seek protection for new products and marks whenever the Company believes it is advisable. K-tel cannot assure you that any trademarks held by it will be valid, enforceable or otherwise of value to the Company in relation to its competitors or the market in general, or that any trademark for which it has applied or may apply will be granted. In addition to trademark protection, the Company generally obtains copyrights in music works, compilations and sound recordings. Employees On June 30, 2006, K-tel employed 10 full time and 3 part time people worldwide. Financial and Geographic Information For financial information about the Company’s business segment and geographic area operations for each of the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect the Company’s business, financial condition, operation results and cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The risks highlighted below are not the only ones the Company faces. If any of these events actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be negatively affected. The Company cautions you to keep in mind these risk factors and to refrain from attributing undue certainty to any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Continuing losses could affect the Company’s ability to obtain additional working capital. The Company has incurred losses in recent fiscal years and expects to continue incurring losses for the foreseeable future. Continuation of the Company’s operations will require additional working capital and continued access to financing to meet working capital requirements and develop new business opportunities which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the report of the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2006 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 5 The level of the Company’s indebtedness could adversely affect financial condition. The Company has primarily funded its recent operations through secured loans from K-5 Leisure Products, Inc. (“K-5”), the Company’s largest shareholder which is controlled by Philip Kives, the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of K-tel. Although K-5 continues to advance funds sufficient to meet the Company’s needs at this time, there can be no assurance that K-5 will continue to advance funds sufficient to meet the Company’s needs or that the Company will be able to obtain additional financing upon favorable terms or at all when required. A substantial portion of total net sales are from a small group of customers. A reduction in sales to any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on net sales and profitability. The Company believes that sales to a small group of customers will continue to represent a significant percentage of total net sales. Substantially all of the products the Company distributes to these customers are supplied on a non-exclusive basis under arrangements that may be cancelled without cause and upon short notice, and retail customers generally are not required to make minimum purchases. If the Company is unable to continue to sell products to this select group of customers or is unable to maintain sales to these customers at current levels and cannot find other customers to replace these sales, there would be an adverse impact on net sales and profitability. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to recognize a significant amount of revenue from sales to any specific customer. The Company may not have the resources necessary to successfully compete in the music industry. The music business is highly competitive and dominated by several major record companies that have greater financial resources than the Company and have a larger depth and breadth of catalog, distribution capabilities and current repertoire than the Company, making it difficult to compete in this market. The major pre-recorded music companies, either directly or through subsidiaries, now manufacture or distribute pre-recorded music compilations in direct competition with the Company’s music compilation products. Technology developments may adversely affect net sales, margins and results of operations. Home entertainment products have traditionally been marketed and delivered on a physical delivery basis. If, in the future, these products are increasingly marketed and delivered through technology transfers, such as electronic downloading through the Internet or similar delivery methods, then the Company’s retail and wholesale distribution business could be negatively impacted. As electronic downloading grows through Internet retailers, competition between suppliers to electronic retailers in traditional ways will intensify and likely negatively impact net sales and margins. If the Company is unable to develop the necessary vendor and customer relationships to facilitate additional electronic downloading or if the terms of these arrangements differ from those related to physical product sales the Company’s business may be materially harmed. Increased counterfeiting or piracy may negatively affect the demand for entertainment products. The recorded music industry has been adversely affected by counterfeiting of CDs and DVDs and also by websites and technologies that allow consumers to illegally download and access music. Increased proliferation of these alternative access methods could impair the Company’s ability to generate sales. The Company may not be able to successfully protect its intellectual property rights. The Company regards its copyrights, service marks, trademarks, and similar intellectual property critical to its success, and relies on trademark and copyright law to protect the intellectual property the Company licenses. Infringement on the Company’s intellectual property may lead to litigation to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material effect on the Company’s business. Product returns or inventory obsolescence could reduce sales and profitability or negatively impact liquidity. The Company maintains a significant investment in product inventory. Like other companies operating in the music industry, product returns from retail customers are significant when expressed as a percentage of revenues. Weakening market conditions could lead to increased product returns, increasing the Company’s inventory and increasing the need for higher obsolescence reserve. Adverse financial conditions could cause a significant decline in the value and marketability of products, possibly making it difficult to recover initial product acquisition costs. Under such circumstances, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, could be adversely affected. The Company maintains a sales return reserve based on historical product line experience rates. The Company can not assure that reserves will be adequate to cover potential returns. If the Company is unable to successfully remediate the material weaknesses in its internal controls, the Company’s ability to report its financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. The Company has reported material weaknesses and the actions taken to address them. Such remediation may not prove effective. Further, should any material weaknesses develop, there are no assurances that the Company will be able to remediate them in a manner satisfactory to outside parties. This could result in the Company not being able to report its financial results on a timely basis, harm our operating results, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. In addition, the Company may be unable to have its internal controls over financial reporting attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm when required. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 6 