ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or anticipated future results. For a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, see the discussion in “Forward Looking Statements” in this Form 10-K and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders (Exhibit 13). Our financial performance is dependent on the conditions of the aerospace industry. The Aerospace segment generated 26 percent of our revenues in 2005. The segment results are directly tied to economic conditions in the commercial aviation and defense industries. The aviation industry tends to be cyclical, and capital spending by airlines and aircraft manufacturers may be influenced by a variety of factors including current and predicted traffic levels, aircraft fuel pricing, labor issues, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, worldwide airline profits and backlog levels. Changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or canceled which could put a part of our backlog that is scheduled for delivery beyond 2006 at risk. Competition from domestic and foreign manufacturers may result in the loss of potential contracts and opportunities. The defense industry is also affected by a changing global political environment, continued pressure on U.S. and global defense spending and U.S. foreign policy and the level of activity in military flight operations. Changes to the defense industry could have a material impact on several of our current aerospace programs, which would adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing new products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when a new product is introduced. A reduction in capital spending in the aviation or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for our products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or results of operations. Estimates of future costs for long-term contracts impact our current operating results and profits. For long-term contracts in the Aerospace segment, we generally recognize sales and income based on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting which allows for recognition of revenue as work on a contract progresses. We recognize sales and profit based upon either (1) the cost-to-cost method in which profit is recorded based upon a ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs to complete the contract or (2) the units-of-delivery method in which sales are recognized as deliveries are made and cost of sales is computed on the basis of the estimated ratio of total cost to total sales. The percentage-of-completion method requires that we estimate future revenues and costs over the life of a contract. Revenues are estimated based upon the original contract price, with consideration being given to exercised contract options, change orders and in some cases projected customer requirements. Contract costs may be incurred over a period of several years, and the estimation of these costs requires significant judgment based upon the acquired knowledge and experience of program managers, engineers, and financial professionals. Estimated costs are based primarily on anticipated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections. The complexity of certain programs as well as technical risks and the availability of materials and labor resources could affect the company’s ability to precisely estimate future contract costs. Additional factors that could affect recognition of revenue under the percentage-of-completion method include: · accounting for start-up costs; · the effect of non-recurring work ; · delay in contract start-up; · transition of work from the customer or other vendors; · claims or unapproved change orders ; · product warranty issues; · delay in completion of certain programs for which inventory has been built up; and · accrual of contract losses. Any one of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our revenue recognition for long-term contracts which would affect our financial condition and operating results. 14 The volatility and availability of raw material could increase our operating costs and adversely impact our profits. We rely on foreign and domestic suppliers and commodity markets to secure raw materials used in many of the products we manufacture within the Aerospace segment or sell within our Industrial Distribution and Music segments. This exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of raw materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could adversely effect our ability to meet our commitments to customers. This could also have an impact on our operating costs as well as our operating income. We try to base our supply management process on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Nonetheless, price increases or the unavailability of some raw materials may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We may make acquisitions or investments in new businesses, products or technologies that involve additional risks, which could disrupt our business or harm our financial condition or results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions of businesses or investments in companies that offer complementary products, services and technologies, such as the acquisition of MBT Holdings Corp. and its subsidiaries in 2005. Such acquisitions or investments involve a number of risks, including: · Assimilating operations and products may be unexpectedly difficult; · Management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; · The company may enter markets in which it has limited or no direct experience; · The company may lose key employees of an acquired business; and · The company may not realize the value of the acquired assets relative to the price paid. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Consideration paid for any future acquisitions could include our stock or require that we incur additional debt and contingent liabilities. As a result, future acquisitions could cause dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share. We rely on the experience and expertise of our skilled employees, and must continue to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing and managerial personnel in order to succeed. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for such personnel in the aerospace, industrial distribution, and music industries. We try to ensure that we offer competitive compensation and benefits as well as opportunities for continued growth. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to develop new and enhanced products and to continue to grow and operate profitably. We are subject to litigation that could adversely affect our operating results. Our financial results may be affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, if a liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time, we will make an estimate of material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment. The estimates of the loss contingency recorded in our financial statements could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized. This could also have an adverse impact on our cash flows in the period during which damages would be paid. As of December 31, 2005, the company does not have any loss contingency recorded, as we do not believe that we have met the criteria to establish such a liability for any pending matter. The company currently is involved in litigation with the University of Arizona which is scheduled for a jury trial in late March 2006. For a description of current legal proceedings, see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in this Form 10-K. 15 Our revenue and quarterly results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results that may be caused by many factors. These factors include: · changes in demand for our products; · introduction, enhancement or announcement of products by us or our competitors; · market acceptance of our new products; · the growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete; · size and timing of significant orders; · budgeting cycles of customers; · mix of distribution channels; · mix of products and services sold; · mix of international and North American revenues; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · changes in the level of operating expenses; · changes in our sales incentive plans; · inventory obsolescence; · additional contract losses; · completion or announcement of acquisitions by us or our competitors; and · general economic conditions in regions in which we conduct business. Most of our expenses are relatively fixed, including costs of personnel and facilities, and are not easily reduced. Thus, an unexpected reduction in our revenue, or failure to achieve the anticipated rate of growth, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, our stock price may decline. Changes in global economic and political conditions could adversely affect our foreign operations and results of operations. During 2005, foreign sales were 14.4 percent of our total revenues. If our customers’ buying patterns, including decision-making processes, timing of expected deliveries and timing of new projects, unfavorably change due to economic or political conditions, there could be an adverse effect on our business. Other potential risks inherent in our foreign business include: · longer payment cycles; · greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; · economic instability in emerging markets; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · cultural and legal differences in the conduct of business. Any one or more of such factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 