Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or anticipated future results. Current economic conditions may have an impact on our future operating results. With the current economic downturn, the Company’s operating results and liquidity may be impacted in several ways, including: - the inability to obtain further bank financing, which may limit our ability to fully execute our strategy in the short term; - higher interest rates on future borrowings, which would limit our free cash flow; - a reduction of the value of our pension plan investments and the associated impact on required contributions and plan expense; - changes in the relationships between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound, the Australian Dollar, the Mexican Peso and the Canadian Dollar, which could positively or negatively impact our financial results; - less activity relative to capital projects and planned expansions; - increased bad debt reserves or slower payments from customers; - decreased order activity from our customers particularly in the Industrial Distribution and Specialty Bearings segments, which would result in lower operating profits as well as less absorption of fixed costs due to the decreased business base; and - the ability of our suppliers to meet our demand requirements, maintain the pricing of their products, or continue operations, which may require us to find and qualify new suppliers. To mitigate these risks, we continually evaluate opportunities for future financing, monitor current borrowing rates, review our receivables to maximize collectability and monitor the stability of our supply chain. We recently executed a term loan credit agreement, as more fully described in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our financial performance is significantly influenced by the conditions of the aerospace industry. The combined Aerospace Segments’ results are directly tied to economic conditions in the commercial aviation and defense industries. As a result, changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or canceled, which could put a portion of our backlog at risk. Additionally, a significant amount of work that we perform under contract tends to be for a few large customers. The commercial aviation industry tends to be cyclical, and capital spending by airlines and aircraft manufacturers may be influenced by a variety of factors including current and future traffic levels, aircraft fuel pricing, labor issues, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, worldwide airline profits and backlog levels. The defense industry is also affected by a changing global political environment, continued pressure on U.S. and global defense spending, U.S. foreign policy and the level of activity in military flight operations. Changes to the defense industry could have a material impact on several of our current aerospace programs, which would adversely affect our operating results. To mitigate these risks, we have worked to expand our customer and product base to include both commercial and military markets. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing new products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when a new product is introduced. A reduction in capital spending in the aviation or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for our products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or results of operations. 8 Our U.S. Government programs are subject to unique risks. The company has several significant long-term contracts either directly with the U.S. government or where it is the ultimate customer, including the Sikorsky BLACK HAWK cockpit program, the JPF program, and the Boeing C-17 and A-10 programs. These contracts are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. Examples of such risks include: · The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts at its convenience without prior notice, upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. · Our U.S. Government business is subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Although we have procedures to comply with these regulations and requirements, failure to do so could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have a negative effect on our reputation and ability to receive other U.S. Government contract awards in the future. · The costs we incur on our U.S. Government contracts, including allocated indirect costs, may be audited by U.S. Government representatives. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract would not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed would have to be refunded. We normally negotiate with the U.S. Government representatives before settling on final adjustments to our contract costs. We have recorded contract revenues based upon results we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of these audits. Although we have instituted controls intended to assure our compliance, if any audit reveals the existence of improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. · We are from time to time subject to certain routine U.S. Government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts. Any adverse finding associated with such an inquiry or investigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Precision Products Segment, Warranty and Contract-Related Matters, for discussion of U.S. Government inquiries and investigations. Competition from domestic and foreign manufacturers may result in the loss of potential contracts and opportunities. The aerospace markets in which we participate are highly competitive and we often compete for work not only with large OEMs but also sometimes with our own customers and suppliers. Many of our large customers may choose not to outsource production due to, among other things, their own direct labor and overhead considerations and capacity utilization at their own facilities. This could result in these customers supplying their own products or services and competing directly with us for sales of these products or services, all of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas and we may not have the technology, cost structure, or available resources to effectively compete with them. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require continued investment in product development, engineering, supply chain management and sales and marketing, and we may not have enough resources to make the necessary investments to do so. Further, our significant customers have in the past used, and may attempt in the future, to use their position to negotiate a reduction in price of a particular product regardless of the terms of an existing contract. For these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully in this market or against such competitors; however, our strategies for our aerospace segments should allow us to continue to effectively compete for key contracts and customers. 9 We could be negatively impacted by the loss of key suppliers, lack of product availability, or changes in supplier programs that could adversely affect our operating results. Our business depends on maintaining sufficient supply of various products to meet our customers’ demands. We have several long-standing relationships with key suppliers but these relationships are non-exclusive and could be terminated by either party. If we lost a key supplier, or were unable to obtain the same levels of deliveries from these suppliers and were unable to supplement those purchases with products obtained from other suppliers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Supply interruptions could arise from shortages of raw materials, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting suppliers’ production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control. Even if we continue with our current supplier relationships, high demand for certain products may result in us being unable to meet our customers’ demands, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally our key suppliers could also increase pricing of their products, which would negatively affect our operating results if we were not able to pass these price increases through to our customers. We engage in strategic inventory purchases during the year, negotiate long-term vendor supply agreements and monitor our inventory levels to ensure that we have the appropriate inventory on hand to meet our customers’ requirements. The price volatility and availability of raw materials could increase our operating costs and adversely impact our profits. We rely on foreign and domestic suppliers and commodity markets to secure raw materials used in many of the products we manufacture within the combined Aerospace Segments or sell within our Industrial Distribution segment. This exposes us to volatility in the price and availability of raw materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities could adversely affect our ability to meet our commitments to customers. This could also have an impact on our operating costs as well as our operating income. We base our supply management process on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. We also try to pass on increases in our costs but our ability to do so depends on contract terms and market conditions. Raising our prices could result in decreased sales volume, which could significantly reduce our profitability. All of these factors may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. To mitigate these risks, we negotiate long-term agreements for materials, when possible. Estimates of future costs for long-term contracts impact our current operating results and profits. For long-term contracts, we generally recognize sales and gross margin based on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. This method allows for revenue recognition as our work progresses on a contract. The percentage-of-completion method requires that we estimate future revenues and costs over the life of a contract. Revenues are estimated based upon the original contract price, with consideration being given to exercised contract options, change orders and, in some cases, projected customer requirements. Contract costs may be incurred over a period of several years, and the estimation of these costs requires significant judgment based upon the acquired knowledge and experience of program managers, engineers, and financial professionals. Estimated costs are based primarily on anticipated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections. The complexity of certain programs as well as technical risks and the availability of materials and labor resources could affect the company’s ability to estimate future contract costs. Additional factors that could affect recognition of revenue under the percentage-of-completion method include: · Accounting for start-up costs; · The effect of nonrecurring work; · Delayed contract start-up; · Transition of work from the customer or other vendors; · Claims or unapproved change orders; · Product warranty issues; · Delayed completion of certain programs for which inventory has been built up; and · Accrual of contract losses. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes, it is likely that materially different sales and profit amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future financial performance. We perform quarterly reviews of our long-term contracts to address and lessen the effects of these risks. 10 We may make acquisitions or investments in new businesses, products or technologies that involve additional risks, which could disrupt our business or harm our financial condition or results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions of businesses or investments in companies that offer complementary products, services and technologies. Such acquisitions or investments involve a number of risks, including: · Assimilating operations and products may be unexpectedly difficult; · Management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; · We may enter markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; · We may lose key employees of an acquired business; · We may not realize the value of the acquired assets relative to the price paid; and · Despite our due diligence efforts, we may not succeed at quality control or other customer issues. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Consideration paid for any future acquisitions could include our stock or require that we incur additional debt and contingent liabilities. As a result, future acquisitions could cause dilution of existing equity interests and earnings per share. Before we enter into any acquisition, we perform significant due diligence to ensure the potential acquisition fits with our strategic objectives. In addition, we try to have adequate resources to transition the newly acquired company efficiently. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets. When we acquire a business, we record goodwill equal to the excess of the amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, which provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives must be tested at least annually for impairment. SFAS 142 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. SFAS 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is generally determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we generally perform our impairment tests annually as of December 31, using initial annual forecast information. Impairments, if any, are recognized as operating expenses. If at any time we determine an impairment has occurred, we are required to reflect the reduction in value as an expense within operating income, resulting in a reduction of earnings in the period such impairment is identified and a corresponding reduction in our net asset value. During the second quarter of 2008, our Aerostructures Wichita, Kansas facility continued to experience production and quality issues, which, along with circumstances unique to each contract, resulted in the separate termination of two long-term contracts with Spirit AeroSystems and Shenyang Aircraft Corporation. These contracts, which represented significant work for the facility, were both loss contracts. In accordance with SFAS 142, we test goodwill for potential impairment annually as of December 31 and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Due to the loss of the two major contracts as well as the continuing production and quality issues, management performed a goodwill impairment analysis for this reporting unit as of June 27, 2008. Based upon the results of our analysis, we recorded an impairment charge of $7.8 million and eliminated the Aerostructures goodwill from our balance sheet as of the end of the second quarter of 2008. Although we have made significant progress on the JPF fuze program, we performed a similar interim analysis, as of June 27, 2008, with respect to the goodwill recorded in connection with the acquisition of KPP Orlando. This facility has experienced a variety of design and production issues associated with the JPF fuze program, which is forecasted to be its principal source of revenues and earnings in the near term, and that has led to increased inventory levels. Based upon the results of that analysis and the annual analysis performed during the fourth quarter of 2008, we have concluded the goodwill recorded for KPP Orlando has not been impaired. We will continue to monitor this facility’s performance in the future. 11 We rely on the experience and expertise of our skilled employees, and must continue to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing and managerial personnel in order to succeed. Our future success will depend largely upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for such personnel in the aerospace and industrial distribution industries. We try to ensure that we offer competitive compensation and benefits as well as opportunities for continued development. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to develop new and enhanced products and to continue to grow and operate profitably. We continue to work to recruit and train new personnel as well as maintain our existing employee base. We are subject to litigation that could adversely affect our operating results. Our financial results may be affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, if a liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time, we will make an estimate of material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment. The estimates of a loss contingency recorded in our financial statements could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized. This could also have an adverse impact on our cash flows in the period during which damages would be paid. As of December 31, 2008, we do not have any loss accrual recorded with respect to current litigation matters, as we do not believe that we have met the criteria to establish such a liability. We have entered into a Deed of Settlement with the Commonwealth of Australia, which terminates the Australia SH-2G (A) program with a mutual release of claims. Our agreement to accept the return of the aircraft and other inventory is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties including but not limited to: · Proper valuation of the inventory; · The potential absence of a market for the aircraft and spare parts; · Risk of the inventory becoming obsolete over time resulting in the company recording a lower of cost or market adjustment; · The additional costs that may be necessary to store, maintain and track the inventory; and · The obligation to make payments to the Commonwealth of Australia in the future, regardless of aircraft sales. We believe there is market potential for these aircraft and we have already begun to actively market them to interested potential customers. The cost and effort to start up new programs could negatively impact our current operating results and profits. In recent years, we have been ramping up several new programs as more fully discussed in Item 7., Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Form 10-K. The time required and cost incurred to ramp up a new program can be significant and includes nonrecurring costs for tooling, first article testing, finalizing drawings and engineering specifications and hiring new employees able to perform the technical work required. New programs can typically involve greater volume of scrap, higher costs due to inefficiencies, delays in production, and learning curves that are more extended than anticipated, all of which can impact current period results. We have been working with our customers and leveraging our years of experience to effectively ramp up these new programs. We rely upon development of national account relationships for growth in our Industrial Distribution segment. Over the past several years, more companies have begun to consolidate their purchases of industrial products, resulting in their doing business with only a few major distributors rather than a large number of vendors. Through our national accounts strategy we have worked hard to develop the relationships necessary to be one of those major suppliers. Competition relative to these types of arrangements is significant. If we are not awarded additional national accounts in the future, or if existing national account agreements are not renewed, our sales volume could be negatively impacted which may result in lower gross margins and weaker operating results. Additionally, national accounts typically require an increased level of customer service as well as investments in the form of opening of new branches to meet our customers’ needs. The cost and time associated with these activities could be significant and if the relationship is not maintained, we could ultimately not make a return on these investments. One of our key strategies has been to increase our national account presence. Thus far, we have been successful with our strategy with the addition of several new large national accounts since late 2006. We will continue to focus on this endeavor through 2009 and beyond. 12 Our revenue and quarterly results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results that may be caused by many factors. These factors include but are not limited to: · Changes in demand for our products; · Introduction, enhancement or announcement of products by us or our competitors; · Market acceptance of our new products; · The growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete; · Size, timing and shipment terms of significant orders; · Budgeting cycles of customers; · Mix of distribution channels; · Mix of products and services sold; · Mix of domestic and international revenues; · Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · Changes in the level of operating expenses; · Changes in our sales incentive plans; · Inventory obsolescence; · Accrual of contract losses; · Fluctuations in oil and utility costs; · Completion or announcement of acquisitions by us; and · General economic conditions in regions in which we conduct business. Most of our expenses are relatively fixed, including costs of personnel and facilities, and are not easily reduced. Thus, an unexpected reduction in our revenue, or failure to achieve the anticipated rate of growth, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, our stock price may decline. Changes in global economic and political conditions could adversely affect our domestic and foreign operations and results of operations. If our customers’ buying patterns, including decision-making processes, timing of expected deliveries and timing of new projects, unfavorably change due to economic or political conditions, there could be an adverse effect on our business. Other potential risks inherent in our foreign business include: · Longer payment cycles; · Greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection; · Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · Export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; · Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · Seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; · Economic instability in emerging markets; · Potentially adverse tax consequences; and · Cultural and legal differences in the conduct of business. Any one or more of such factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. 13 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report may contain forward-looking information relating to the company's business and prospects, including the Aerospace and Industrial Distribution businesses, operating cash flow, and other matters that involve a number of uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Those uncertainties include, but are not limited to: 1) the successful conclusion of competitions for government programs and thereafter contract negotiations with government authorities, both foreign and domestic; 2) political conditions in countries where the company does or intends to do business; 3) standard government contract provisions permitting renegotiation of terms and termination for the convenience of the government; 4) domestic and foreign economic and competitive conditions in markets served by the company, particularly the defense, commercial aviation and industrial production markets; 5) risks associated with successful implementation and ramp up of significant new programs; 6) management's success in resolving operational issues at the Aerostructures Wichita facility, including successful negotiation of the Sikorsky Canadian MH-92 program; 7) successful resale of the aircraft, equipment and spare parts obtained in connection with the Australia SH-2G (A) program termination; 8) receipt and successful execution of production orders for the JPF U.S. government contract, including the exercise of all contract options, successful negotiation of price increases with the U.S. government, and receipt of orders from allied militaries, as all have been assumed in connection with goodwill impairment evaluations; 9) satisfactory resolution of the company’s litigation with the U.S. Army procurement agency relating to the FMU-143 program; 10) continued support of the existing K-MAX helicopter fleet, including sale of existing K-MAX spare parts inventory; 11) cost growth in connection with environmental remediation activities at the Bloomfield, Moosup and New Hartford, CT facilities and our recently acquired Brookhouse facilities; 12) profitable integration of acquired businesses into the company's operations; 13) changes in supplier sales or vendor incentive policies; 14) the effects of price increases or decreases; 15) pension plan assumptions and future contributions; 16) future levels of indebtedness and capital expenditures; 17) continued availability of raw materials and other commodities in adequate supplies and the effect of increased costs therefor; 18) the effects of currency exchange rates and foreign competition on future operations; 19) changes in laws and regulations, taxes, interest rates, inflation rates, general business conditions and other factors; 20) future repurchases and/or issuances of common stock; and 21) other risks and uncertainties set forth in the company's annual, quarterly and current reports, and proxy statements. Any forward-looking information provided in this report should be considered with these factors in mind. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 ITEM 