ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or anticipated future results. For a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, see the discussion in “Forward Looking Statements” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in our 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders (Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K). Our financial performance is dependent on the conditions of the aerospace industry. The Aerospace segment generated 27 percent of our revenues in 2006. The segment results are directly tied to the economic conditions in the commercial aviation and defense industries. The aviation industry tends to be cyclical, and capital spending by airlines and aircraft manufacturers may be influenced by a variety of factors including current and predicted traffic levels, aircraft fuel pricing, labor issues, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, worldwide airline profits and backlog levels. Additionally, a significant amount of work that we perform under contract tends to be for a few large customers. Changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or canceled which could put a part of our backlog at risk. Competition from domestic and foreign manufacturers may result in the loss of potential contracts and opportunities. The defense industry is also affected by a changing global political environment, continued pressure on U.S. and global defense spending and U.S. foreign policy and the level of activity in military flight operations. Changes to the defense industry could have a material impact on several of our current aerospace programs, which would adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing new products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when a new product is introduced. A reduction in capital spending in the aviation or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for our products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or results of operations. Estimates of future costs for long-term contracts impact our current operating results and profits. For long-term contracts in the Aerospace segment, we generally recognize sales and income based on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting which allows for recognition of revenue as work on a contract progresses. We recognize sales and profit based upon either (1) the cost-to-cost method,in which profit is recorded based upon a ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs to complete the contract, or (2) the units-of-delivery method, in which sales are recognized as deliveries are made and cost of sales is computed on the basis of the estimated ratio of total cost to total sales. 16 The percentage-of-completion method requires that we estimate future revenues and costs over the life of a contract. Revenues are estimated based upon the original contract price, with consideration being given to exercised contract options, change orders and in some cases projected customer requirements. Contract costs may be incurred over a period of several years, and the estimation of these costs requires significant judgment based upon the acquired knowledge and experience of program managers, engineers, and financial professionals. Estimated costs are based primarily on anticipated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections. The complexity of certain programs as well as technical risks and the availability of materials and labor resources could affect the company’s ability to estimate future contract costs. Additional factors that could affect recognition of revenue under the percentage-of-completion method include: · accounting for start-up costs · the effect of non-recurring work · delay in contract start-up · transition of work from the customer or other vendors · claims or unapproved change orders · product warranty issues · delay in completion of certain programs for which inventory has been built up · accrual of contract losses Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes, it is likely that materially different sales and profit amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. We are continuing to work on the Australia SH-2G(A) program for the Royal Australian Navy but thus far have not delivered the first fully capable aircraft. Since 1997, the company has been working on the production portion of the SH-2G(A) program for the Royal Australian Navy (RAN). This program involves the remanufacture of eleven helicopters with support, including a support services facility, for the RAN. The combined contracts have a current anticipated value of $762.6 million. The helicopter production portion of the program is valued at $612.7 million, essentially all of which has been recorded as sales through 2006. The associated in-service support center contract has a current anticipated value of $149.9 million of which 45 percent has been recorded as sales through the end of 2006. During the year, the company made significant progress toward completion of the requirements of the 1997 production contract with the Commonwealth of Australia by performing FQT of the ITAS. During this time, the company also worked with the Commonwealth to resolve previously reported flight safety questions that resulted in grounding of the aircraft early in 2006 and management believes that the cause of the safety concern has been rectified. The Commonwealth also continued to develop additional work scope related to its aircraft certification requirements, which would involve development and testing of new software and hardware requirements for the automatic flight control system. The division has provided a proposal to perform the additional work, which could take up to approximately twenty-nine months. Meanwhile, the company awaits the result of a previously reported review by the Commonwealth's Minister of Defence regarding the possibility of pursuing an alternative to the Kaman program. The company believes that its program is the most efficient and cost effective method to achieve the Royal Australian Navy's operational needs. While these activities are ongoing, in January 2007, the Commonwealth also initiated the process that is provided for under the contract to resolve disputes (which would begin with discussions between the parties and could ultimately result in arbitration). The parties subsequently agreed to stop that process and mutually waive, for the present, the expiration of any statute of limitations periods that might be involved in the dispute. The Commonwealth's principal assertions are that the helicopters have not been delivered in a timely manner and the design of the helicopter, particularly the automatic flight control system, is inadequate from a safety perspective. Management believes that its obligations to the Commonwealth under the program are being performed and the design of the SH-2G(A) is safe and proper as demonstrated by the significant operational history of this aircraft type with several countries, including the United States. Management intends to continue its efforts to work with the Commonwealth to develop a satisfactory path forward to complete the SH-2G(A) program, which may include the additional work discussed above. 17 Our U.S. Government programs are subject to unique risks. The company has several significant long-term contracts either directly with the U.S. government or where it is the ultimate customer, including the Sikorsky BLACK HAWK cockpit program, the JPF program, and the Boeing C-17 program. These contracts are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. Examples of such risks would include: · The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate our contracts. The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts at its convenience without prior notice, upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. · Our U.S. Government business is subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have a negative effect on our reputation and ability to procure other U.S. Government contracts in the future. · Our contract costs are subject to audits by U.S. Government agencies. The costs we incur on our U.S. Government contracts, including allocated indirect costs, may be audited by U.S. Government representatives. These audits may result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. We normally negotiate with the U.S. Government representatives before settling on final adjustments to our contract costs. We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of these audits. If any audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. · Our business is subject to potential U.S. Government inquiries and investigations. We are from time to time subject to certain U.S. Government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts. Such inquiry or investigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The price volatility and availability of raw material could increase our operating costs and adversely impact our profits. We rely on foreign and domestic suppliers and commodity markets to secure raw materials used in many of the products we manufacture within the Aerospace segment or sell within our Industrial Distribution and Music segments. This exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of raw materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could adversely affect our ability to meet our commitments to customers. This could also have an impact on our operating costs as well as our operating income. We try to base our supply management process on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. We also try to pass on increases in our costs but our ability to do so depends on contract terms and market conditions. Raising our prices could result in decreased sales volume, which could significantly reduce our profitability. All of these factors may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 18 We may make acquisitions or investments in new businesses, products or technologies that involve additional risks, which could disrupt our business or harm our financial condition or results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions of businesses or investments in companies that offer complementary products, services and technologies. Such acquisitions or investments involve a number of risks, including: · Assimilating operations and products may be unexpectedly difficult; · Management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; · The company may enter markets in which it has limited or no direct experience; · The company may lose key employees of an acquired business; and · The company may not realize the value of the acquired assets relative to the price paid. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Consideration paid for any future acquisitions could include our stock or require that we incur additional debt and contingent liabilities. As a result, future acquisitions could cause dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share. We rely on the experience and expertise of our skilled employees, and must continue to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing and managerial personnel in order to succeed. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for such personnel in the aerospace, industrial distribution, and music industries. We try to ensure that we offer competitive compensation and benefits as well as opportunities for continued growth. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to develop new and enhanced products and to continue to grow and operate profitably. We are subject to litigation that could adversely affect our operating results. Our financial results may be affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, if a liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time, we will make an estimate of material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment. The estimates of the loss contingency recorded in our financial statements could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized. This could also have an adverse impact on our cash flows in the period during which damages would be paid. As of December 31, 2006, the company does not have any loss contingency recorded, as we do not believe that we have met the criteria to establish such a liability for any pending matter. Our revenue and quarterly results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results that may be caused by many factors. These factors include: · changes in demand for our products; · introduction, enhancement or announcement of products by us or our competitors; · market acceptance of our new products; · the growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete; · size and timing of significant orders; · budgeting cycles of customers; · mix of distribution channels; 19 · mix of products and services sold; · mix of international and North American revenues; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · changes in the level of operating expenses; · changes in our sales incentive plans; · inventory obsolescence; · additional contract losses; · completion or announcement of acquisitions by us or our competitors; and · general economic conditions in regions in which we conduct business. Most of our expenses are relatively fixed, including costs of personnel and facilities, and are not easily reduced. Thus, an unexpected reduction in our revenue, or failure to achieve the anticipated rate of growth, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, our stock price may decline. Changes in global economic and political conditions could adversely affect our foreign operations and results of operations. During 2006, foreign sales were 14.1 percent of our total revenues. If our customers’ buying patterns, including decision-making processes, timing of expected deliveries and timing of new projects, unfavorably change due to economic or political conditions, there could be an adverse effect on our business. Other potential risks inherent in our foreign business include: · longer payment cycles; · greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; · economic instability in emerging markets; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · cultural and legal differences in the conduct of business. Any one or more of such factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 ITEM 