Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Our future operating results may be impacted by changes in economic conditions. The Company’s future operating results and liquidity may be impacted by economic downturns in several ways, including: · the inability to obtain further bank financing, which may limit our ability to fully execute our strategy in the short term; · higher interest rates on future borrowings, which would limit our cash flow; · a deterioration in the funded status of our pension plan resulting from pension plan investment performance and the change in the associated discount rate and the resulting impact on required contributions and plan expense; · changes in the relationships between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound, the Australian Dollar, the Mexican Peso and the Canadian Dollar, which could positively or negatively impact our financial results; · changes in the level of activity relative to capital projects and planned expansions; · changes in bad debt reserves or slower payments from customers; · changes in order activity from our customers, particularly in the Industrial Distribution segment, which could result in lower operating profits as well as less absorption of fixed costs due to a decreased business base; and · the ability of our suppliers to meet our demand requirements, maintain the pricing of their products, or continue operations, which may require us to find and qualify new suppliers. To mitigate these risks, we evaluate opportunities for future financing, monitor current borrowing rates, review our receivables to maximize collectability and monitor the stability of our supply chain. We issued $115.0 million in convertible notes in November 2010 and executed a $275.0 million revolving credit agreement in the third quarter of 2010, as more fully described in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Form 10-K. Our financial performance is significantly influenced by the conditions of the aerospace industry. The Aerospace segment’s results are directly tied to economic conditions in the commercial aviation and defense industries. As a result, changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or canceled, which could put a portion of our backlog at risk. Additionally, a significant amount of work that we perform under contract tends to be for a few large customers. The commercial aviation industry tends to be cyclical, and capital spending by airlines and aircraft manufacturers may be influenced by a variety of factors including current and future traffic levels, aircraft fuel pricing, labor issues, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, worldwide airline profits and backlog levels. The defense industry is also affected by a changing global political environment, continued pressure on U.S. and global defense spending, U.S. foreign policy and the level of activity in military flight operations. Changes to the defense industry could have a material impact on several of our current aerospace programs, which could adversely affect our operating results. To mitigate these risks, we have worked to expand our customer and product bases to include both commercial and military markets. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing new products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when a new product is introduced. A reduction in capital spending in the aviation or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for our products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or results of operations. 8 Our U.S. Government programs are subject to unique risks. The Company has several significant long-term contracts either directly with the U.S. government or where the U.S. government is the ultimate customer, including the Sikorsky BLACK HAWK cockpit program, the Joint Programmable Fuze (“JPF”) program, and the Boeing C-17 and A-10 programs. These contracts are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. Examples of such risks include: · The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts at its convenience without prior notice, upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · Our U.S. Government business is subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Although we have procedures to comply with these regulations and requirements, failure to do so under certain circumstances could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have a negative effect on our reputation and ability to receive other U.S. Government contract awards in the future. · The costs we incur on our U.S. Government contracts, including allocated indirect costs, may be audited by U.S. Government representatives. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract would not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed would have to be refunded. We normally negotiate with those U.S. Government representatives before they settle on final adjustments to our contract costs. We have recorded contract revenues based upon results we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments, and we may be required to reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of these audits. Although we have instituted controls intended to assure our compliance, if any audit reveals the existence of improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. · We are from time to time subject to certain routine U.S. Government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts. Any adverse finding associated with such an inquiry or investigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition from domestic and foreign manufacturers may result in the loss of potential contracts and opportunities. The aerospace markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and we often compete for work not only with large Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”) but also sometimes with our own customers and suppliers. Many of our large customers may choose not to outsource production due to, among other things, their own direct labor and overhead considerations and capacity utilization at their own facilities. This could result in these customers supplying their own products or services and competing directly with us for sales of these products or services, all of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas and we may not have the technology, cost structure, or available resources to effectively compete with them. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require continued investment in product development, engineering, supply chain management and sales and marketing, and we may not have enough resources to make the necessary investments to do so. Further, our significant customers have in the past used, and may attempt in the future to use, their position to negotiate a reduction in price of a particular product regardless of the terms of an existing contract. We believe our strategies for our Aerospace segment will allow us to continue to effectively compete for key contracts and customers; however, there is potential that we may not be able to compete successfully in this market or against such competitors. 9 We could be negatively impacted by the loss of key suppliers, lack of product availability, or changes in supplier programs that could adversely affect our operating results. Our business depends on maintaining sufficient supply of various products to meet our customers’ demands. We have several long-standing relationships with key suppliers but these relationships are non-exclusive and could be terminated by either party. If we lost a key supplier, or were unable to obtain the same levels of deliveries from these suppliers and were unable to supplement those purchases with products obtained from other suppliers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we rely on foreign and domestic suppliers and commodity markets to secure raw materials used in many of the products we manufacture within the Aerospace segment or sell within our Industrial Distribution segment. This exposes us to volatility in the price and availability of raw materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply. Supply interruptions could arise from shortages of raw materials, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting suppliers’ production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control. Even if we continue with our current supplier relationships, high demand for certain products may result in us being unable to meet our customers’ demands, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, our key suppliers could also increase pricing of their products, which would negatively affect our operating results if we were not able to pass these price increases through to our customers. We base our supply management process on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. To protect ourselves against such risks, we engage in strategic inventory purchases during the year, negotiate long-term vendor supply agreements and monitor our inventory levels to ensure that we have the appropriate inventory on hand to meet our customers’ requirements. Estimates of future costs for long-term contracts impact our current and future operating results and profits. For long-term contracts, we generally recognize sales and gross margin based on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. This method allows for revenue recognition as our work progresses on a contract. The percentage-of-completion method requires that we estimate future revenues and costs over the life of a contract. Revenues are estimated based upon the original contract price, with consideration being given to exercised contract options, change orders and, in some cases, projected customer requirements. Contract costs may be incurred over a period of several years, and the estimation of these costs requires significant judgment based upon the acquired knowledge and experience of program managers, engineers, and financial professionals. Estimated costs are based primarily on anticipated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections. The complexity of certain programs as well as technical risks and the availability of materials and labor resources could affect the Company’s ability to estimate future contract costs. Additional factors that could affect recognition of revenue under the percentage-of-completion method include: · Fixed price contracts; · Accounting for initial program costs; · The effect of nonrecurring work; · Delayed contract start-up; · Transition of work from the customer or other vendors; · Claims or unapproved change orders; · Product warranty issues; · Delayed completion of certain programs for which inventory has been built up; · Our ability to estimate or control scrap level; and · Accrual of contract losses. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes, it is likely that materially different sales and profit amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future financial performance. We perform quarterly reviews of our long-term contracts to address and lessen the effects of these risks. The Company’s information technology systems, processes, and sites may suffer interruptions or failures which may affect the Company’s ability to conduct its business. The Company’s information technology systems provide critical data connectivity, information and services for internal and external users. These interactions include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, inventory management, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, and other processes necessary to manage the business. The Company has put in place business continuity plans for its critical systems. However, if the Company’s information technology systems are damaged, or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, such as catastrophic events, power outages or security breaches, and the Company’s business continuity plans do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, the Company may suffer interruptions in its operations, which may adversely impact the Company’s revenues and operating results. 10 We may make acquisitions or investments in new businesses, products or technologies that involve additional risks, which could disrupt our business or harm our financial condition or results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions of businesses or investments in companies that offer complementary products, services and technologies. Such acquisitions or investments involve a number of risks, including: · Assimilating operations and products may be unexpectedly difficult; · Management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; · We may enter markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; · We may lose key employees, customers or vendors of an acquired business; · The synergies or cost savings we expected to achieve may not be realized; · We may not realize the value of the acquired assets relative to the price paid; and · Despite our diligent efforts, we may not succeed at quality control or other customer issues. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Consideration paid for any future acquisitions could include our stock or require that we incur additional debt and contingent liabilities. As a result, future acquisitions could cause dilution of existing equity interests and earnings per share. Before we enter into any acquisition, we perform significant due diligence to determine if the potential acquisition fits with our strategic objectives. In addition, we believe we have adequate resources and appropriate integration procedures to transition a newly acquired company efficiently. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets. When we acquire a business, we record goodwill equal to the excess of the amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. Goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives must be tested at least annually for impairment. The specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is generally determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we generally perform our impairment tests annually in the fourth quarter, using available forecast information. If at any time we determine an impairment has occurred, we are required to reflect the reduction in value as an expense within operating income, resulting in a reduction of earnings in the period such impairment is identified and a corresponding reduction in our net asset value. During 2010, our Aerospace U.K. Composites reporting unit recorded a $6.4 million non-cash non-tax deductible goodwill impairment charge. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 9, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of this charge. We rely on the experience and expertise of our skilled employees, and must continue to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing and managerial personnel in order to succeed. Our future success will depend largely upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, operational and financial managers and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for such personnel in the aerospace and industrial distribution industries. We try to ensure that we offer competitive compensation and benefits as well as opportunities for continued development. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to develop new and enhanced products and to continue to grow and operate profitably. We continually strive to recruit and train required personnel as well as retain key employees. 11 We are subject to litigation that could adversely affect our operating results. Our financial results may be affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, if a liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time, we will make an estimate of material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment. The accrual of a loss contingency adversely affects our results of operations in the period in which a liability is recognized. This could also have an adverse impact on our cash flows in the period during which damages are paid. Currently, we have two matters outstanding relating to the FMU-143 program at the Aerospace segment’s Orlando facility. While we believe that the U.S. Government’s allegations against us in these matters are unfounded and we continue to defend ourselves vigorously, we cannot guarantee that we will have no liability with respect to these matters. For a discussion of these matters, please refer to Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our acceptance of the return of the 11 Australian SH-2G(A) Super Seasprite helicopters, including related inventory and equipment, from the Commonwealth of Australia is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. On February 12, 2009, we completed the transfer of title to the 11 Australian SH-2G(A) Super Seasprite helicopters, including related inventory and equipment, from the Commonwealth of Australia. For more information, please refer to Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our acceptance of the return of the aircraft and other inventory is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties including but not limited to: · The potential absence of a market for the aircraft and spare parts; · Risk of the inventory becoming obsolete over time, resulting in the Company recording a lower of cost or market adjustment; · The additional costs that may be necessary to store, maintain and track the inventory; and · The obligation to make payments to the Commonwealth of Australia in the future, regardless of aircraft sales. We believe there is a market for these aircraft, and we are actively marketing them to interested potential customers. The cost and effort to start up new aerospace programs could negatively impact our operating results and profits. In recent years, we have been ramping up several new programs, as more fully discussed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The time required and cost incurred to ramp up a new program can be significant and includes nonrecurring costs for tooling, first article testing, finalizing drawings and engineering specifications and hiring new employees able to perform the technical work required. New programs can typically involve greater volume of scrap, higher costs due to inefficiencies, delays in production, and learning curves that are more extended than anticipated, all of which can impact operating results. We have been working with our customers and leveraging our years of experience to effectively ramp up these new programs. A failure to develop and retain national accounts at our Industrial Distribution segment could adversely impact our financial results. Over the past several years, more companies have begun to consolidate their purchases of industrial products, resulting in their doing business with only a few major distributors or integrated suppliers, rather than a large number of vendors. Through our national accounts strategy, we have worked to develop the relationships necessary to be one of those major distributors. Competition relative to these types of arrangements is significant. If we are not awarded additional national accounts in the future, or if existing national account agreements are not renewed, our sales volume could be negatively impacted which may result in lower gross margins and weaker operating results. Additionally, national accounts typically require an increased level of customer service, as well as investments in the form of opening of new branches to meet our customers’ needs. The cost and time associated with these activities could be significant and if the relationship is not maintained, we could ultimately not make a return on these investments. One of our key strategies has been to increase our national account presence, and we will continue to focus on this objective. 12 Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all significant risk exposures. We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. While we believe that we maintain adequate insurance for certain risks, insurance cannot be obtained to protect against all risks and liabilities. It is therefore possible that the amount of our insurance coverage may not cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial unanticipated costs. Business disruptions could seriously affect our future sales and financial condition or increase our costs and expenses. Our business may be impacted by disruptions including, but not limited to, threats to physical security, information technology attacks or failures, damaging weather or other acts of nature and pandemics or other public health crises. Any of these disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, and could impact our sales, increase our expenses or adversely affect our reputation or our stock price. Our revenue and quarterly results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results that may be caused by many factors. These factors include but are not limited to: · Difficulties with our technical programs; · Changes in demand for our products; · Introduction, enhancement or announcement of products by us or our competitors; · Market acceptance of our new products; · The growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete; · Size, timing and shipment terms of significant orders; · Budgeting cycles of customers; · Mix of distribution channels; · Mix of products and services sold; · Mix of domestic and international revenues; · Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · Changes in the level of operating expenses; · Changes in our sales incentive plans; · Inventory obsolescence; · Accrual of contract losses; · Fluctuations in oil and utility costs; · Completion or announcement of acquisitions by us; and · General economic conditions in regions in which we conduct business. Most of our expenses are relatively fixed, including costs of personnel and facilities, and are not easily reduced. Thus, an unexpected reduction in our revenue, or failure to achieve the anticipated rate of growth, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, our stock price may decline. Changes in global economic and political conditions could adversely affect our domestic and foreign operations and results of operations. If our customers’ buying patterns, including decision-making processes, timing of expected deliveries and timing of new projects, unfavorably change due to economic or political conditions, there could be an adverse effect on our business. Our foreign business presents us with additional risk exposures, including: · Longer payment cycles; · Difficulties in accounts receivable collection; · Changes in regulatory requirements; · Export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; · Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · Seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; · Political or economic instability in the markets we serve; · Potentially adverse tax consequences; and · Cultural and legal differences in the conduct of business. Any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our domestic or international operations, and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. 13 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking information relating to the company's business and prospects, including the Aerospace and Industrial Distribution businesses, operating cash flow, and other matters that involve a number of uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Those uncertainties include, but are not limited to: 1) the successful conclusion of competitions for government programs and thereafter contract negotiations with government authorities, both foreign and domestic; 2) political conditions in countries where the company does or intends to do business; 3) standard government contract provisions permitting renegotiation of terms and termination for the convenience of the government; 4) domestic and foreign economic and competitive conditions in markets served by the company, particularly the defense, commercial aviation and industrial production markets; 5) risks associated with successful implementation and ramp up of significant new programs; 6) potential difficulties associated with variable acceptance test results, given sensitive production materials and extreme test parameters; 7) management's success in increasing the volume of profitable work at the Wichita facility; 8) successful resale of the SH-2G(I) aircraft, equipment and spare parts; 9) receipt and successful execution of production orders for the JPF U.S. government contract, including the exercise of all contract options and receipt of orders from allied militaries, as all have been assumed in connection with goodwill impairment evaluations; 10) satisfactory resolution of the company’s litigation relating to the FMU-143 program; 11) continued support of the existing K-MAX® helicopter fleet, including sale of existing K-MAX® spare parts inventory; 12) cost estimates associated with environmental remediation activities at the Bloomfield, Moosup and New Hartford, CT facilities and our U.K. facilities; 13) profitable integration of acquired businesses into the company's operations; 14) changes in supplier sales or vendor incentive policies; 15) the effects of price increases or decreases; 16) the effects of pension regulations, pension plan assumptions and future contributions; 17) future levels of indebtedness and capital expenditures; 18) continued availability of raw materials and other commodities in adequate supplies and the effect of increased costs for such items; 19) the effects of currency exchange rates and foreign competition on future operations; 20) changes in laws and regulations, taxes, interest rates, inflation rates and general business conditions; 21) future repurchases and/or issuances of common stock; and 22) other risks and uncertainties set forth in the company's annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other filings with the SEC. Any forward-looking information provided in this report should be considered with these factors in mind. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 