ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or anticipated future results. For a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, see the discussion in “Forward Looking Statements” in Part 1 of this Form 10-K. Our financial performance is dependent on the conditions of the aerospace industry. The combined Aerospace Segments’ results are directly tied to the economic conditions in the commercial aviation and defense industries. As a result, changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or canceled, which could put a portion of our backlog at risk. Additionally, a significant amount of work that we perform under contract tends to be for a few large customers. The aviation industry tends to be cyclical, and capital spending by airlines and aircraft manufacturers may be influenced by a variety of factors including current and future traffic levels, aircraft fuel pricing, labor issues, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, worldwide airline profits and backlog levels. The defense industry is also affected by a changing global political environment, continued pressure on U.S. and global defense spending, U.S. foreign policy and the level of activity in military flight operations. Changes to the defense industry could have a material impact on several of our current aerospace programs, which would adversely affect our operating results. To mitigate these risks, we have worked to expand our customer and product base to include both commercial and military markets. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing new products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when a new product is introduced. A reduction in capital spending in the aviation or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for our products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Competition from domestic and foreign manufacturers may result in the loss of potential contracts and opportunities. The aerospace markets in which we participate are highly competitive and we often compete for work not only with large OEMs but also sometimes with our own customers and suppliers. Many of our large customers may choose not to outsource production due to, among other things, their own direct labor and overhead considerations and capacity utilization at their own facilities. This would result in these customers supplying their own products or services and competing directly with us for sales of these products or services, all of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas and we may not have the technology, cost structure, or available resources to effectively compete in the market. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require continued investment in product development, engineering, supply chain management and sales and marketing, and we may not have enough resources to make the necessary investments to do so. We are also facing increased international competition. Further, our significant customers have in the past used, and may attempt in the future to use, their position to negotiate a reduction in price of a particular product regardless of the terms of an existing contract. For these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully in this market or against such competitors. Our strategies for our aerospace segments allow us to continue to effectively compete for key contracts and customers. For additional information on this topic, see Item 1 “Business — Competition” of this Form 10-K. Estimates of future costs for long-term contracts impact our current operating results and profits. For long-term contracts we generally recognize sales and gross margin based on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. This method allows for revenue recognition as our work progresses on a contract. The percentage-of-completion method requires that we estimate future revenues and costs over the life of a contract. Revenues are estimated based upon the original contract price, with consideration being given to exercised contract options, change orders and, in some cases, projected customer requirements. Contract costs may be incurred over a period of several years, and the estimation of these costs requires significant judgment based upon the acquired knowledge and experience of program managers, engineers, and financial professionals. Estimated costs are based primarily on anticipated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections. The complexity of certain programs as well as technical risks and the availability of materials and labor resources could affect the company’s ability to estimate future contract costs. Additional factors that could affect recognition of revenue under the percentage-of-completion method include: • Accounting for start-up costs; • The effect of non-recurring work; • Delayed contract start-up; • Transition of work from the customer or other vendors; • Claims or unapproved change orders; • Product warranty issues; • Delayed completion of certain programs for which inventory has been built up; and, • Accrual of contract losses. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes, it is likely that materially different sales and profit amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to 10 Table of Contents change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. We perform quarterly reviews of our long-term contracts to help us to address and lessen the effects of these risks. The cost and effort to start-up new programs could negatively impact our current operating results and profits. In recent years, the company has been ramping up several new programs. These include, but are not limited to, a contract for production of the composite flight deck floor, as well as metal and composite bonded panels for the vertical stabilizer, for the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, and a contract to manufacture and assemble composite tail rotor pylons for Sikorsky MH-92 helicopters. The time required and cost incurred to get a new program underway can be significant and includes non-recurring costs for tooling, first article testing, finalizing drawings and engineering specifications and hiring new employees able to perform the technical work required. New programs typically involve greater volume of scrap, higher overhead rates due to inefficiencies, delays in production, and learning curves that are more extended than anticipated, all of which can impact current period results. We have been working with our customers and leveraging off of our years of experience to effectively ramp up these new programs. We are continuing to work on the Australian SH-2G(A) program for the Royal Australian Navy but thus far have not delivered the first fully capable aircraft. Work continued on the SH-2G(A) program for Australia during 2007. This program involves the remanufacture of eleven helicopters with support, including a support services facility, for the Royal Australian Navy. Following a review of the program and possible alternatives initiated by the Commonwealth’s Minister of Defence in mid-2006, the Minister announced in May 2007 that the Commonwealth would proceed with the program, “subject to satisfactory contract arrangements.” Since that time, in addition to ongoing program activities, the parties have been engaged in discussions aimed at developing a mutually acceptable path forward to complete the program. The contract dispute resolution process initiated by the Commonwealth in January 2007, which the parties subsequently agreed to suspend with a mutual waiver of applicable statutes of limitation periods, continues to be outstanding. The Commonwealth’s principal assertions are that the helicopters have not been delivered in a timely manner and the design of the helicopter, particularly the automatic flight control system, is inadequate from a safety perspective. Management believes that its obligations to the Commonwealth under the program are being performed and the design of the SH-2G(A) is safe and proper as demonstrated by the significant operational history of this aircraft type with several countries, including the United States, Egypt, New Zealand, and Poland. This matter is more fully discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The final delivery of a fully capable aircraft has been delayed for several years initially due to the complexities of the Integrated Tactical Avionics System (ITAS) software and due to the Commonwealth’s concerns regarding the program. Through 2007, we have recorded a significant amount of contract loss charges and any further delay could result in additional charges in the future. 11 Table of Contents Our U.S. Government programs are subject to unique risks. The company has several significant long-term contracts either directly with the U.S. government or where it is the ultimate customer, including the Sikorsky BLACK HAWK cockpit program, the JPF program, and the Boeing C-17 program. These contracts are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. Examples of such risks would include: • The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate our contracts. The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts at its convenience without prior notice, upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. • Our U.S. Government business is subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have a negative effect on our reputation and ability to procure other U.S. Government contracts in the future. • Our contract costs are subject to audits by U.S. Government agencies. The costs we incur on our U.S. Government contracts, including allocated indirect costs, may be audited by U.S. Government representatives. These audits may result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. We normally negotiate with the U.S. Government representatives before settling on final adjustments to our contract costs. We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of these audits. If any audit shows improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. • Our business is subject to potential U.S. Government inquiries and investigations. We are from time to time subject to certain routine U.S. Government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts. Any adverse finding associated with such an inquiry or investigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The price volatility and availability of raw material could increase our operating costs and adversely impact our profits. We rely on foreign and domestic suppliers and commodity markets to secure raw materials used in many of the products we manufacture within the combined Aerospace Segments or sell within our Industrial Distribution segment. This exposes us to volatility in the price and availability of raw materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities could adversely affect our ability to meet our commitments to customers. This could also have an impact on our operating costs as well as our operating income. We try to base our supply management process on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative 12 Table of Contents practices. We also try to pass on increases in our costs but our ability to do so depends on contract terms and market conditions. Raising our prices could result in decreased sales volume, which could significantly reduce our profitability. All of these factors may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. To mitigate these risks, we negotiate long-term agreements for materials, when possible. We may make acquisitions or investments in new businesses, products or technologies that involve additional risks, which could disrupt our business or harm our financial condition or results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions of businesses or investments in companies that offer complementary products, services and technologies. Such acquisitions or investments involve a number of risks, including: • Assimilating operations and products may be unexpectedly difficult; • Management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; • The company may enter markets in which it has limited or no direct experience; • The company may lose key employees of an acquired business; and • The company may not realize the value of the acquired assets relative to the price paid. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Consideration paid for any future acquisitions could include our stock or require that we incur additional debt and contingent liabilities. As a result, future acquisitions could cause dilution of existing equity interests and earnings per share. Before we enter into any acquisition, we perform significant due diligence to ensure the potential acquisition fits with our strategic objectives. In addition, we ensure that we have adequate resources to transition the newly acquired company efficiently. We rely on the experience and expertise of our skilled employees, and must continue to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing and managerial personnel in order to succeed. Our future success will depend largely upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for such personnel in the aerospace and industrial distribution industries. We try to ensure that we offer competitive compensation and benefits as well as opportunities for continued development. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to develop new and enhanced products and to continue to grow and operate profitably. We continue to work to recruit and train new personnel as well as maintain our existing employee base. We are subject to litigation that could adversely affect our operating results. Our financial results may be affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, if a liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time, we will make an estimate of material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment. The estimates of a loss contingency recorded in our financial statements could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized. This could also have an adverse impact on our cash flows in the period during which damages would be paid. As of December 31, 2007, the company does not have any loss contingency recorded with respect to any pending litigation, as we do not believe that we have met the criteria to establish such a liability for any pending litigation matter. 13 Table of Contents We rely upon growth in our Industrial Distribution segment through development of national account relationships. Over the past several years, more companies have begun to consolidate their purchases of industrial products, resulting in their doing such business with only a few major distributors rather than a large number of vendors. Through our national accounts strategy we have worked hard to develop the relationships necessary to be one of those major suppliers. Competition relative to these types of arrangements is significant. If we are not awarded additional national accounts in the future, our sales volume would be negatively impacted which may result in lower gross margins and weaker operating results. Additionally, national accounts typically require an increased level of customer service as well as investments in the form of opening of new branches to meet our customers’ needs. The cost and time associated with these activities could be significant and if the relationship is not maintained we could ultimately not make a return on these investments. One of our key strategies has been to increase our national account presence. Thus far, we have been successful with our strategy with the addition of several new large national accounts since late 2006. We will continue to focus on this endeavor through 2008. We could be negatively impacted by the loss of key suppliers, lack of product availability, or changes in supplier programs that could adversely affect our operating results. Our Industrial Distribution business depends on maintaining sufficient supply of various products to meet our customers’ demands. We have several long-standing relationships with key product suppliers but these relationships are non-exclusive and could be terminated by either party. If we lost a key supplier, or were unable to obtain the same levels of deliveries from these suppliers and were unable to supplement those purchases with products obtained from other suppliers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Supply interruptions could arise from shortages of raw materials, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting suppliers’ production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control. Even if we continue with our current supplier relationships, high demand for certain products may result in us being unable to meet our customers’ demand, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally our key suppliers could also increase pricing of their products, which would negatively affect our operating results if we were not able to pass these price increases through to our customers. We engage in strategic inventory purchases during the year, negotiate long-term vendor supply agreements and monitor our inventory levels to ensure that we have the appropriate inventory on hand to meet our customers’ requirements. Our revenue and quarterly results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results that may be caused by many factors. These factors include but are not limited to: • Changes in demand for our products; • Introduction, enhancement or announcement of products by us or our competitors; • Market acceptance of our new products; • The growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete; • Size and timing of significant orders; • Budgeting cycles of customers; • Mix of distribution channels; • Mix of products and services sold; • Mix of international and North American revenues; • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Changes in the level of operating expenses; • Changes in our sales incentive plans; • Inventory obsolescence; 14 Table of Contents • Additional contract losses; • Completion or announcement of acquisitions by us or our competitors; and • General economic conditions in regions in which we conduct business. Most of our expenses are relatively fixed, including costs of personnel and facilities, and are not easily reduced. Thus, an unexpected reduction in our revenue, or failure to achieve the anticipated rate of growth, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, our stock price may decline. Changes in global economic and political conditions could adversely affect our foreign operations and results of operations. During 2007, foreign sales were 14.0 percent of our total revenues. If our customers’ buying patterns, including decision-making processes, timing of expected deliveries and timing of new projects, unfavorably change due to economic or political conditions, there could be an adverse effect on our business. Other potential risks inherent in our foreign business include: • Longer payment cycles; • Greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; • Economic instability in emerging markets; • Potentially adverse tax consequences; and • Cultural and legal differences in the conduct of business. Any one or more of such factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report may contain forward-looking information relating to the company’s business and prospects, including the Aerospace and Industrial Distribution businesses, operating cash flow, and other matters that involve a number of uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Those uncertainties include, but are not limited to: 1) the successful conclusion of competitions for government programs and thereafter contract negotiations with government authorities, both foreign and domestic; 2) political conditions in countries where the company does or intends to do business; 3) standard government contract provisions permitting renegotiation of terms and termination for the convenience of the government; 4) domestic and foreign economic and competitive conditions in markets served by the company, particularly the defense, commercial aviation and industrial production markets; 5) risks associated with successful implementation and ramp up of significant new programs; 6) satisfactory completion of the Australian SH-2G(A) program, including negotiation of payment and performance terms for the balance of the program as well as any additional work scope requested by the Commonwealth; 7) receipt and successful execution of production orders for the JPF U.S. government contract including the exercise of all contract options and receipt of orders from allied militaries, as both have been assumed in connection with goodwill impairment evaluations; 8) the University of Arizona’s continued failure to succeed in its appeals efforts to overturn the jury verdict that rejected the University’s breach of contract claim against the company; 9) satisfactory resolution of the company’s contract dispute with the U.S. Army procurement agency relating to the FMU-143 program; 10) continued support of the existing K-MAX helicopter fleet, including sale of existing K-MAX spare parts inventory; 11) cost growth in connection with 15 Table of Contents environmental remediation activities at the Moosup, CT and New Hartford, CT facilities and such potential activities at the Bloomfield, CT facility; 12) profitable integration of acquired businesses into the company’s operations; 13) changes in supplier sales or vendor incentive policies; 14) the effect of price increases or decreases; 15) pension plan assumptions and future contributions; 16) future levels of indebtedness and capital expenditures; 17) continued availability of raw materials in adequate supplies; 18) the effects of currency exchange rates and foreign competition on future operations; 19) changes in laws and regulations, taxes, interest rates, inflation rates, general business conditions and other factors; and 20) other risks and uncertainties set forth in the company’s annual, quarterly and current reports, and proxy statements. Any forward-looking information provided in this report should be considered with these factors in mind. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 