Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating the Company, the factors described below should be carefully considered. The occurrence of one or more of these events could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Weakness in the industries Furmanite serves could adversely affect demand for our services. A substantial portion of the business depends upon the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures in the refining and chemical industries, as well as the power generation and other process industries. The levels of capital and maintenance expenditures by Furmanite’s customers are affected by general economic conditions, conditions in their industries and their liquidity, as well as cyclical downturns in these industries and fluctuations in oil prices. Continued weaknesses in the sectors served by Furmanite could adversely affect the demand for Furmanite’s services. Political, economic, regulatory or other conditions in foreign countries in which Furmanite operates could adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flow of the Company. Operations in foreign jurisdictions accounted for approximately 45% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. The Company expects foreign operations to continue to be an important part of its business. Foreign operations are subject to a variety of risks, such as: • risks of economic instability; • potential adverse changes in taxation policies; • disruptions from labor and political disturbances; • adverse changes in tariffs or import or export restrictions; and • terrorist acts, acts of war or insurrections. Terrorist acts, acts of war, political unrest, public health concerns, labor disputes or national disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as those of our customers. These types of acts could weaken domestic and global economies and create additional uncertainties, thus forcing our customers to reduce their capital spending, or cancel or delay projects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, including loss of sales or customers. In addition, as a result of our global operations, we face a variety of special United States and international legal and compliance risks, as well as to the risks of our domestic business. These federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time and increase our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include environmental, health and safety regulations, data privacy requirements, international labor laws, anti-corruption and bribery laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and U.K. Bribery Act, and trade sanctions laws and regulations. In the event new laws and regulations are enacted or existing laws are amended, implementing compliance with such new or amended laws may result in a loss of revenue, increased costs of doing business and a change to our strategic objectives, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of any of these laws. 7 Table of Contents Although the Company takes reasonable measures to comply with the FCPA and U.K. Bribery Act and to ensure that its employees, agents and intermediaries comply with the FCPA and U.K. Bribery Act, it cannot assure that such precautions will protect it against liability, particularly as a result of actions taken in the past, or which may be taken in the future for which the Company may have exposure under these laws. An actual or alleged violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil or criminal penalties, debarment from government contracts, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, competitive or reputational harm, litigation or regulatory action and other consequences that might adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, strategic objectives or cash flows. The Company may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign exchange restrictions. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies, which represent a significant portion of total revenues, and certain costs, assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The primary foreign currencies of the Company are the Euro, British pound and Australian dollar. For the year ended December 31, 2012, foreign currency based revenues and operating income were $147.9 million and $5.8 million, respectively. Based on results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company estimates that a ten percent fluctuation of all applicable foreign currencies would result in an annual change in revenues and operating income of $13.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively. The competitive position of Furmanite depends in part on the ability to protect its intellectual property. The competitive position of Furmanite depends in part upon techniques and materials that are proprietary and, in some cases, patented. The Company holds over 120 trademarks and patents for its techniques, products, materials and equipment. These patents are registered around the world and expire at various dates through December 2023. Although Furmanite believes it has taken appropriate steps to protect the intellectual property from misappropriation, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries. In addition, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of trade secrets and proprietary techniques. Furmanite’s services and products are offered in highly competitive markets, which limits the profit margins and the ability to increase market share. The markets for Furmanite’s services and products are highly competitive. Furmanite competes against large and well established national and international companies as well as regional and local companies. Furmanite also competes with the in-house maintenance departments of customers or potential customers. Competition is based on service, performance and price. If Furmanite does not compete successfully, the business and results of operations could be adversely affected. If the Company loses any key personnel, the ability to manage the business and continue the growth of the Company could be negatively impacted. The Company’s success is highly dependent on the efforts of its executive officers and key employees. If any of the Company’s key employees leave, its business may suffer. The growth of the Company’s business is also largely dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all areas of its business, including technicians and management. If the Company is unable to attract and retain such qualified personnel, it may be forced to limit growth, and its business and operating results could suffer. Organizational changes within the Company could also impact its ability to retain personnel. The Company is exposed to customer credit risks. The Company is subject to risks of loss resulting from delinquent payment, nonpayment or nonperformance or other obligations by its customers. If key customers default on their obligations, the financial results of the Company could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of the Company’s customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks which may also limit their ability to pay or perform. Changes in the general economy affecting availability of credit may negatively impact the Company’s business. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected during periods of economic downturn, and the timing and extent of such a decline in the global, or regional economies in which the Company operates, cannot be predicted. Lower levels of liquidity and capital adequacy affecting lenders, increases in defaults and bankruptcies by customers and suppliers, 8 Table of Contents and volatility in credit and equity markets could negatively affect the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition in a number of ways, including reductions in revenues and profits, increased bad debts, and financial instability of suppliers and insurers. Furthermore, it may be more difficult or costly to access or obtain, in the future, working capital or acquisition opportunity financing. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in reduced demand for the Company’s services and products. The adoption and implementation of any regulations which impose limiting emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases from customers for whom the Company provides repair and maintenance services could adversely affect demand for the Company’s services and products. Furthermore, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur in regions where the Company operates, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s assets and operations. Moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies thereunder, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from operations of the Company, could result in costs and liabilities to the Company. Our insurance policies may not cover all claims against us or may be insufficient to cover such claims. We may be subject to various types of claims, including personal injury and property damage. We maintain insurance coverage against these and other risks associated with our business. However, this insurance may not protect us against liability from certain events. We cannot assure that our insurance will be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur. Moreover, we cannot assure that we will be able in the future to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any future damages that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 