Item 1A. Risk Factors A number of factors could materially affect the Company’s future results of operations. In addition to those factors identified elsewhere in this report, investors should consider the following: Weakness in the refining and chemical industries could adversely affect demand for our technical services. A substantial portion of the business depends upon the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures in the refining and chemical industries, as well as the power generation and other process industries. The levels of capital and maintenance expenditures by Furmanite’s customers are affected by general economic conditions, conditions in their industries and their liquidity, as well as cyclical downturns in these industries and fluctuations in oil prices. Weaknesses in the sectors served by Furmanite adversely affect the demand for these services. Political conditions in foreign countries in which Furmanite operates could adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flow of the Company. Operations in foreign jurisdictions accounted for approximately 56% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company expects foreign operations to continue to be an important part of its business. Foreign operations are subject to a variety of risks, such as: • risks of economic instability; • potential adverse changes in taxation policies; • disruptions from labor and political disturbances; • adverse changes in tariffs or import or export restrictions; • war or insurrections; and • other adverse changes in the laws or regulations of the host country. The Company may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign exchange restrictions. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies, which represent a significant portion of total revenues, and certain costs, assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The primary foreign currencies of the Company are the Euro, British pound and Australian dollar. Based on results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company estimates that a one percent fluctuation of all applicable foreign currencies would result in an annual change in revenues and operating income of $1.6 million and $0.3 million, respectively. 6 Table of Contents The competitive position of Furmanite depends in part on the ability to protect its intellectual property. The competitive position of Furmanite depends in part upon techniques and materials that are proprietary and, in some cases, patented. The Company holds approximately 130 patents and trademarks for its techniques and materials. These patents are registered around the world and expire at various dates ranging to 2022. Although Furmanite has taken appropriate steps to protect the intellectual property from misappropriation, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries. In addition, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of trade secrets and proprietary techniques. Furmanite’s products and services are offered in highly competitive markets, which limit the profit margins and the ability to increase market shares. The markets for Furmanite’s products and services are highly competitive. Furmanite competes against large and well established national and international companies as well as regional and local companies. Furmanite also competes with the in-house maintenance departments of customers or potential customers. Competition is based on service, performance and price. If Furmanite does not compete successfully, the business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The government services provided by Furmanite are affected by levels of expenditures of federal, state and local governments. The government services are primarily provided to governmental organizations in the focus areas of early childhood education and development. The level of services provided to governmental units can be influenced by political and economic factors and the availability of budgeted and funded projects. If the Company loses any key personnel, the ability to manage the business and continue the growth of the Company could be negatively impacted. The Company’s success is highly dependent on the efforts of its executive officers and key employees. If any of the Company’s key employees leave, its business may suffer. The growth of the Company’s business is also largely dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all areas of its business, including management. If the Company is unable to attract and retain such qualified personnel, it may be forced to limit growth, and its business and operating results could suffer. Organizational changes within the Company could also impact its ability to retain personnel. The Company is exposed to customer credit risks. The Company is subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by its customers. If any of the key customers default on their obligations, the financial results of the Company could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of the Company’s customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 