Item 1A. Risk Factors. A number of factors could materially affect our future results of operations. In addition to those factors identified elsewhere in this report, investors should consider the following: Weakness in the refining and chemical industries could adversely affect demand for our technical services. A substantial portion of the business of our technical services group depends upon the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures in the refining and chemical industries, as well as the power generation and other process industries. The levels of capital and maintenance expenditures by our customers are affected by general economic conditions, conditions in their industries and in their liquidity, as well as cyclical downturns in these industries and fluctuations in oil prices. Weaknesses in the sectors served by our technical services group adversely affect the demand for the services of this group. Our information technology and government services group is affected by levels of expenditures of federal, state and local governments and of health care organizations. Our information technology and government services group primarily services governmental organizations in the focus areas of early childhood education and development, and provides technology services for the health care market. The level of services we provide to governmental units can be influenced by political and economic factors and the availability of budgeted and funded projects. Health care organizations are subject to increasing government regulations and economic pressures, and funds for projects that use the services of our technology and government services group can be constrained. Political conditions in foreign countries in which we operate could adversely affect us. Operations in foreign jurisdictions accounted for approximately 78% of the total revenues of our technical services group in the year ended December 31, 2005, and we expect foreign operations to continue to be an important part of this business. Foreign operations are subject to a variety of risks, such as: • risks of economic instability; • potential adverse changes in taxation policies; • disruptions from labor and political disturbances; • adverse changes in tariffs or import or export restrictions; • war or insurrections; and • other adverse changes in the laws or regulations or the host country. 7 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign exchange restrictions. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies, which represent a significant portion of our revenue, and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The primary foreign currencies to which we have exposure are the Euro, British pound and Australian dollar. Based on results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, we estimate that a one percent fluctuation of all applicable foreign currencies would result in an annual change in revenues and operating income of $1.0 million and $0.1 million, respectively. The competitive position of our technical services group depends in part on its ability to protect its intellectual property. The competitive position of our technical services group depends in part upon techniques and materials that are proprietary and, in some cases, patented. Furmanite holds approximately 130 patents and trademarks for its techniques and materials. These patents are registered around the world and expire at various dates ranging to 2012. Although we believe we have taken appropriate steps to protect our intellectual property from misappropriation, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. In addition, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an authorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and proprietary techniques. Our products and services are offered in highly competitive markets, which limits our profit margins and our ability to increase market shares. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive. We compete against large and well established national and international companies as well as regional and local companies. Our technical services group also competes with the in-house maintenance departments of its customers or potential customers. Competition is based on service, performance and price. If we do not compete successfully, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our recent acquisition of assets from Flowserve could present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. The process of integrating acquired operations, including the recently acquired GSG assets, involves a number of challenges including: • retention of key employees; • conforming accounting systems and controls as well as other company standards, procedures and controls; • coordinating operations; and • providing additional capital or personnel to support the acquired business. If we fail to successfully address these challenges, our business could be adversely affected. 