Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe operating results of life insurance companies have historically been subject to significant fluctuations. The factors which could affect the Company’s future results include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions and the known trends and uncertainties which are discussed more fully below.Strategic, Product, and Operational Risks:The Company operates in a mature, highly competitive industry, which could limit its ability to grow sales or maintain its position in the industry and negatively affect profitability.Life insurance is a mature and highly competitive industry. The Company encounters significant competition in all lines of business from other insurance companies, many of which have greater financial resources, a greater market share, a broader range of products, lower product prices, better name recognition, greater actual or perceived financial strength, higher claims-paying ratings, the ability to assume a greater level of risk, lower operating or financing costs, or lower profitability expectations.Changes in competition and the business environment could negatively affect the Company’s ability to maintain or increase its profitability.In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry, resulting in increased competition from large, well-capitalized financial services firms. Furthermore, many of these larger competitors may have lower operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining their financial strength ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively. The Company expects consolidation to continue, thereby increasing competitive pressures.Changes in demographics, particularly the aging of the population and the decline in the number of agents in the industry, affect the demand for life insurance products. Also, as technology evolves, customers and agents may be able to compare products of any particular company with any other, which could lead to increased competition as well as changes in agent or customer behavior, including persistency that differs from past behavior.The Company may be unable to attract agencies and sales representatives.The Company sells insurance and annuity products through independent agents and agencies. These agencies and sales representatives are not captive and may sell products of the Company’s competitors. The Company’s ability to compete is dependent upon, among other things, its ability to attract agents and agencies to market its insurance products, its ability to develop competitive and profitable products, its ability to control unit cost growth, and its maintenance of strong financial strength ratings. Sales and the results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if the Company is unsuccessful in attracting agencies and sales representatives.The Company’s ability to retain agents and sales representatives is dependent upon a number of factors including: the ability of the Company to maintain a competitive compensation system while also offering products with competitive features and benefits for policyholders; the ability to maintain a level of service and support activities that effectively support the agent and sales representative needs; and the ability to approve and monitor agent and sales representative sales and business practices that are consistent with regulatory requirements and expectations of the Company.The Company’s ability to maintain competitive unit costs is dependent upon the level of new sales.The Company’s ability to maintain competitive unit costs is dependent upon a number of factors, such as the level of new sales, persistency (continuation or renewal) of existing business, and expense management. A decrease in sales or the amount of total existing business or deterioration in the profitability of the existing business without a corresponding reduction in expenses may result in higher unit costs, which would affect the Company’s operating results.The Company’s policy claims fluctuate from period to period, resulting in earnings volatility.The Company’s financial results may fluctuate from period to period due to fluctuations in policy claims incurred by the Company. However, the Company reinsures a significant amount of the mortality risk on fully underwritten and newly issued individual life insurance contracts. The Company regularly reviews retention limits for continued appropriateness and these limits may be changed in the future. If the Company was to experience significant adverse mortality or morbidity experience, it is expected that a significant portion of that expense would be reimbursed by reinsurers.11Table of ContentsThe Company’s results may be negatively affected should actual experience differ from management’s assumptions and estimates.The Company makes certain assumptions regarding mortality, persistency, expenses, interest rates, tax liability, business mix, policyholder behavior, or other factors appropriate for the type of business results it expects to experience in future periods. These assumptions are also used to estimate the amounts of deferred acquisition costs (DAC), value of business acquired (VOBA), policy reserves and accruals, future earnings, and various components of the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. These assumptions are used in the operations of the Company’s business in making decisions crucial to the success of the Company, including the pricing of products and expense structures relating to products. The Company’s actual experience and changes in estimates are reflected in the Company’s financial statements. The Company’s actual experience may vary from period to period and from established assumptions, potentially resulting in variability in the financial statements.Assumptions and estimates involve judgment and are subject to changes and revision over time.The calculations the Company uses to estimate various components of its financial statements are complex and involve analyzing and interpreting large quantities of data. The Company employs various techniques for such calculations and, from time to time, will develop and implement more sophisticated systems and procedures to facilitate calculations and improve estimates. Accordingly, the Company’s results may be affected, positively or negatively, by actual results differing from assumptions, by changes in estimates, and by changes resulting from implementing new administrative systems and procedures.The Company’s reserves for future policy benefits may prove to be inadequate.The Company establishes and carries a reserve liability based on estimates of how much will be needed to pay for future benefits and claims. The assumptions and estimates used in connection with establishing and carrying reserves are inherently uncertain and in some cases are mandated by regulators. If actual experience is significantly different from assumptions or estimates or if regulators decide to increase or change regulations, reserves may prove to be inadequate in relation to estimated future benefits and claims. As a result, a charge to earnings would be incurred in the quarter in which the Company increases reserves.The amortization of DAC and VOBA may change, impacting both the level of the asset and the timing of the Company’s net income.Amortization of DAC and VOBA depends on the actual and expected profits generated by the lines of business that incurred the costs. Expected profits are dependent on assumptions regarding a number of factors, including investment returns, benefit payments, expenses, mortality, and policy lapse. Due to the nature of the business, the Company cannot anticipate the exact pattern of profit emergence. As a result, amortization of DAC and VOBA will vary from period-to-period as actual profits replace expected profits and future expected profits are re-projected based on management’s best estimates as of the reporting dates. To the extent that actual experience emerges less favorably than expected or expectations for future profits decrease, the DAC and VOBA assets may be reduced. This would likely result in increased amortization and reduced profitability in the current period.The Company is dependent on the performance of others.The Company’s results may be affected by the performance of others because the Company has entered into various arrangements involving other parties. For example, most of the Company’s products are sold through independent distribution channels, and variable universal life and annuity deposits are invested in funds managed by third parties. Additionally, the Company’s operations are dependent on various technologies, some of which are provided by other parties.As with all financial services companies, the Company’s ability to conduct business is dependent upon consumer confidence in the industry and its products. Actions of competitors and financial difficulties of other companies in the industry could undermine consumer confidence and adversely affect retention of existing business and future sales of the Company’s insurance and investment products.Risk management policies and procedures may leave the Company exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect business or result in losses.The Company has devoted significant resources to develop risk management policies and procedures and will continue to do so in the future. However, the Company’s policies and procedures used to identify, monitor, and manage risks may not be fully effective. Many of the methods of managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical policyholder and market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not effectively identify or evaluate the magnitude of existing or future exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. An example of such risks includes the risk of pandemics, which could cause a large number of deaths. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, agents, clients, catastrophe occurrence, or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date, or properly evaluated. 12Table of ContentsManagement of operational, legal, and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial may adversely affect the business, financial condition, and/or operating results.A rating downgrade could adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete and increase the number or value of policies surrendered.The Company’s financial strength rating, which is intended to measure its ability to meet policyholder obligations, is an important factor affecting public confidence in most of the Company’s products and, as a result, the Company’s competitiveness. Rating organizations periodically review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including the Company, and downgrades of insurance companies occur frequently.A downgrade in the Company’s rating could adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell its products, retain existing business, and compete for attractive acquisition opportunities. Rating organizations assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating organization, general economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. In addition, rating organizations use various models and formulas to assess the strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating organizations have, in their discretion, altered the models. Changes to the models could impact the rating organizations’ judgment of the rating to be assigned to the rated company. The Company cannot predict what actions rating organizations may take or what actions the Company may be required to take in response to the actions of the rating organizations, which could adversely affect the Company.The Company may be unable to complete additional acquisitions.One of the Company’s growth strategies is to acquire other life insurance companies and/or blocks of business. The Company’s previous acquisitions have increased earnings by allowing the Company to realize certain operating efficiencies or increase sales. There can be no assurance, however, that suitable acquisitions presenting opportunities for continued growth and operating efficiencies will continue to be available to the Company. Further, sufficient capital to fund acquisitions may not be available at the time opportunities become available.The Company may not realize its anticipated financial results from its acquisitions.The completion of an acquisition may be more costly or take longer than expected. There may be unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with businesses that the Company acquires. Additionally, in connection with its acquisitions, the Company assumes or otherwise becomes responsible for the obligations of policies and liabilities of other insurers. Any regulatory, legal, financial, or other adverse development affecting the other insurer could also have an adverse effect on the Company.Investment and Asset/Liability Management Risks:The Company’s investments are subject to market and credit risks.The Company’s invested assets, primarily including fixed income securities, are subject to customary risks of credit defaults and changes in fair value. The value of the Company’s commercial mortgage loan and real estate portfolios also depend on the financial condition of the tenants occupying the properties which the Company has financed. Factors that may affect the overall default rate on and fair value of the Company’s invested assets include interest rate levels and changes, availability and cost of liquidity, financial market performance, and general economic conditions, as well as particular circumstances affecting the businesses of individual borrowers and tenants.Interest rate fluctuations could negatively affect the Company’s spread income or otherwise impact its business.Interest rate fluctuations or sustained low interest rate environments could negatively affect earnings because the profitability of certain products depends in part on interest rate spreads. These products include fixed annuity, interest-sensitive whole life, universal life, and the fixed portion of variable universal life insurance business. Changes in interest rates or sustained low interest rate environments may reduce both the profitability and the return on invested capital.Some of the Company’s products, principally fixed annuities, interest-sensitive whole life, universal life, and the fixed portion of variable universal life insurance have interest rate guarantees that expose the Company to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread, or the difference between the amounts the Company is required to credit to policyholder contracts and the amounts earned by the Company on general account investments. Declines in spread or instances where the returns on the general account investments are not sufficient to support the interest rate guarantees on these products could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations. In periods of increasing interest rates, the Company may not be able to replace the assets in the general account with higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates that may be necessary to keep interest sensitive 13Table of Contentsproducts competitive. The Company, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and profitability or face a decline in sales, loss of existing contracts from non-renewed maturities, early withdrawals, or surrenders. In periods of declining interest rates, the Company has to reinvest the cash received from interest or return of principal on investments in lower yielding instruments then available. Moreover, issuers of fixed-income investment securities and borrowers related to the Company’s commercial mortgage investments may prepay these obligations in order to borrow at lower market rates, which may exacerbate the risk for the Company of having to reinvest at lower rates.The Company is entitled to reset the interest rates it credits on fixed-rate annuities. Because many of the Company’s policies have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates, spreads could decrease and potentially become negative. Increases in interest rates may cause increased surrenders and withdrawals of insurance products. In periods of increasing interest rates, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with higher returns. These outflows may require investment assets to be sold at a time when the prices of those assets are lower because of the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses.Changes in interest rates may also impact the business in other ways. Lower interest rates may result in lower sales of certain of the Company’s insurance products. Higher interest rates may create a less favorable environment for the origination of mortgage loans. Higher interest rates may also result in lower sales of variable products. Further, higher interest rates may result in significant unrealized losses on investments, which could cause changes in agent and policy retention and new product sales.While the Company develops and maintains asset/liability management programs and procedures designed to mitigate the effect on spread income in rising or falling interest rate environments, no assurance can be given that changes in interest rates will not affect such spreads. Additionally, the Company’s asset/liability management programs incorporate assumptions about the relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates (i.e., the slope of the yield curve) and relationships between risk-adjusted and risk-free interest rates, market liquidity, and policyholder behavior in periods of changing interest rates and other factors. The effectiveness of the Company’s asset/liability management programs and procedures may be negatively affected whenever actual results differ from these assumptions.Prolonged periods of low interest rates can affect policyholder behavior and negatively impact earnings.As interest rates decline, policyholders may become more likely to extend the retention or duration of fixed-rate products previously purchased and may seek alternatives to fixed-rate products for new purchases. Many of the products sold in earlier periods may have minimum guaranteed interest crediting rates or other features that are greater than those being offered in the current low interest rate environment. Additionally, cash flows from existing investments, including interest and principal payments, may be reinvested at lower interest rates relative to prior periods. As a result, a prolonged low interest rate environment can result in significant changes to cash flows, lower investment income, compressed product spreads, reduced earnings, and increased surplus strain. In addition, the Company may change its risk profiles in regards to selecting investment opportunities to reduce the impact on earnings.The change from a low interest rate environment to an environment of increasing interest rates can affect policyholder behavior and negatively impact earnings.The change from a period of low interest rates to a period of significantly higher and increasing interest rates may cause policyholders to surrender policies or to make early withdrawals in order to maximize their returns. Accordingly, the Company may become more susceptible to increased surrenders and withdrawals on policies as surrender charges and other features that help protect the Company from increased or unexpected policyholder withdrawals or lapses. Increases in policyholder surrenders, withdrawals, or lapses could negatively affect the Company's operating results.The Company’s valuation of fixed maturity and equity securities may include methodologies, estimations, and assumptions and could result in changes to investment valuations that may have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial condition.Fixed maturity securities, equity securities, and short-term investments are reported at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and represent the majority of total cash and invested assets. Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820 establishes a three-level hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The level in the fair value hierarchy is based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability’s classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to its valuation.14Table of ContentsDuring periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were previously acquired and valued in active markets with significant observable data that are now valued in illiquid markets with little observable data. In such cases, more securities may be classified in Level 3 and, therefore, require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more complex or require increased estimation, thereby resulting in values which may have greater variance from the value at which the investments may or could be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in the consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.Equity market volatility could negatively impact the Company’s profitability.The Company is exposed to equity market volatility in the following ways:•The Company has exposure to equity price risk through investments, but this exposure is limited due to the relatively small equity portfolio held during the periods presented.•The Company earns investment management fees and mortality and expense fee income based upon the value of assets held in the Company’s separate accounts. Revenues from these sources fluctuate with changes in the fair value of the separate accounts.•Volatility in equity markets may discourage purchasers of variable universal life and annuity products that have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets and may also result in existing customers withdrawing cash values or reducing investments in those products.•The Company has equity price risk to the extent that it may affect the liability recognized under guaranteed minimum death benefits and guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit provisions of the variable contracts. Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities associated with such products, which ultimately results in a reduction to net income.•The amortization of DAC relating to variable products can fluctuate with changes in the performance of the underlying separate accounts.The determination of the amount of realized and unrealized impairments and allowances established on the Company’s investments is highly subjective and could materially impact results of operations or financial position.The determination of the amount of impairments and allowances varies by investment type and is based upon the Company’s evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. There can be no assurance that the assumptions, methodologies, and judgments employed in these evaluations and assessments will be accurate or sufficient in later periods. As a result, additional impairments may need to be realized or allowances provided in future periods. Further, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.Additionally, the Company considers a wide range of factors about security issuers and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer, its future earnings potential, and the ability and timeliness of the security’s recovery in fair value.The Company could be forced to sell investments at a loss to meet policyholder withdrawals.Many of the products offered by the Company allow policyholders and contract holders to withdraw their funds under defined circumstances. The Company manages liabilities and attempts to align the investment portfolio so as to provide and maintain sufficient liquidity to support anticipated withdrawal demands, contract benefits, and maturities. While the Company owns a significant amount of liquid assets, a certain portion of investment assets are relatively illiquid. If the Company experiences unanticipated withdrawal or surrender activity, the Company could exhaust all other sources of liquidity and be forced to liquidate assets, perhaps on unfavorable terms. If the Company is forced to dispose of assets on unfavorable terms, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.15Table of ContentsThe Company invests in certain low income housing real estate properties specifically to generate state and federal tax credits. These tax credits have become targets of regulatory bodies to reduce the available tax credits. Additionally, economic forces may negatively impact the ongoing performance of these investments.In recent periods, both the state and federal governments have offered selected tax credits for low income housing real estate properties. These tax credits have become the targets of certain regulators to either reduce or to eliminate the available credits that companies can receive. The willingness of regulators to reduce or eliminate these available credits could have a negative impact on the Company’s tax strategy. In addition, the economic environment may negatively impact the operating performance of these properties and result in either losses for these properties or tax credit recapture to the holders of these credits. Accordingly, these items may negatively impact or impair the value of the properties or the current or future ability to realize or maintain tax credits previously recognized or tax credits to be realized in the future.The Company's mortgage loan investments are subject to default and volatility in performance.As an asset class, mortgage loans have experienced heightened delinquency and default risk in certain historical periods due to difficult economic conditions. These conditions may result in a negative impact on the performance of the underlying collateral, resulting in declining values and volatility in the ability of the holders to repay these instruments. An increase in defaults on the Company's mortgage loan investments could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.The Company may be exposed to environmental liability from its commercial loan and real estate investments.The Company customarily conducts environmental assessments prior to making commercial mortgage loans secured by real estate and before taking title to real estate. Based on the Company’s environmental assessments made through the date of the financial statements, the Company believes that any compliance costs associated with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of affected properties would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. However, no assurance can be provided that material compliance costs will not be incurred by the Company in future periods.The Company’s mortgage loan investments in the Pacific region of the United States may subject it to losses resulting from certain natural catastrophes in this area.The Company has a sizeable concentration of commercial mortgage loans in the Pacific region of the United States. This concentration exposes the Company to potential losses resulting from certain natural catastrophes, such as earthquakes and fires, which may occur in the region. While the Company diversifies its commercial mortgage loan portfolio in this region by both location and type of property in an effort to reduce catastrophic exposure, such diversification does not eliminate the risk of such losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.The Company’s mortgage loan investments in regions with significant concentration may subject it to losses resulting from the impact of the economic downturn in that region.The Company has a sizeable concentration of commercial mortgage loans in certain regions of the United States. Severe adverse economic conditions in these regions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.Liquidity and Capital Resources Risks:Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect the Company’s ability to meet liquidity needs, as well as access to capital and cost of capital.The capital and credit markets can experience extreme volatility and disruption. The volatility and disruption can exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit for certain sectors and issuers. Although the Company has not issued new equity or debt securities in recent years, including 2012 and 2011, the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by future disruptions in the capital and credit markets.The Company’s level of cash and investments, along with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed to be adequate to meet anticipated short-term and long-term policyholder and operational obligations. However, withdrawal and surrender levels may differ from anticipated levels for a variety of reasons, such as changes in economic conditions, changes in policyholder behavior, changes in agent practices, or changes in the Company’s claims-paying ability or financial strength ratings. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect the Company’s profitability and financial condition. In the event that the Company’s current internal sources of liquidity do not satisfy these needs, additional financing may be required and, in such case, the Company may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, 16Table of Contentsthe overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, the Company’s credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of long- or short-term financial prospects if the Company incurs large realized or unrealized investment losses or if the level of business activity is decreased due to a market downturn. Similarly, access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against the Company.Disruptions, uncertainty, or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit the Company’s access to external sources of liquidity, which could be required to operate its business. Such market conditions could limit the Company’s ability to replace maturing liabilities in a timely manner; satisfy capital requirements; fund redemption requests on insurance or other financial products; generate fee income and market-related revenue; meet liquidity needs; and access the capital necessary to grow the business. As such, the Company could be forced to delay raising capital, utilize available internal resources, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease the Company’s profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility and liquidity.The Company’s ability to grow depends in large part upon the continued availability of capital.The Company deploys significant amounts of capital to support its sales and acquisition efforts. Although the Company believes it has sufficient capital to fund its immediate growth and capital needs, the amount of capital available could vary in the future due to a variety of circumstances, some of which are neither predictable nor foreseeable, nor within the Company’s control. A lack of sufficient capital could impair the Company’s ability to grow.Regulatory Risks:Insurance companies are highly regulated and are subject to numerous legal restrictions and regulations.The Company is subject to government regulation in each of the states in which business is conducted. Such regulation is vested in state agencies having broad administrative and, in some instances, discretionary power dealing with many aspects of the Company’s business. This may include, among other things, premium rates and increases thereto, reserve requirements, marketing practices, advertising, privacy, policy forms, reinsurance reserve requirements, acquisitions, mergers, and capital adequacy. Government regulation of insurers is concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders and other customers rather than shareholders. Interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes, regulations, and interpretations may be applied with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or reserve requirements.The Company cannot predict whether or in what manner regulatory reforms will be enacted and, if so, whether the enacted reforms will positively or negatively affect the Company or whether any effects will be material. The NAIC generally formulates and promulgates statutory-based insurance regulations. However, each state is independent and must separately enact these financial regulations and guidelines. As such, insurers follow the interpretations and legal approvals of their respective states of domicile.Other types of regulation that could affect the Company include insurance company investment laws and regulations, state statutory accounting practices, state escheatment practices, anti-trust laws, minimum solvency requirements, state securities laws, federal privacy laws, insurable interest laws, federal money laundering, and anti-terrorism laws. Further, because the Company owns and operates real property, state, federal, and local environmental laws could affect the Company. The Company cannot predict what form any future changes in these or other areas of regulation affecting the insurance industry might take or what effect, if any, such proposals might have on the Company if enacted into law.The Company is also subject to various government regulations at the federal level. As a result of economic and market conditions in recent years, the federal government has become increasingly more active in issuing and enforcing regulations. The implementation of these legislative or regulatory requirements may make it more expensive for the Company to conduct its business, may have a material adverse effect on the overall business climate, and could materially affect the profitability of the results of operations and financial condition of financial institutions. The Company is uncertain as to all of the impacts that new legislation will have and cannot provide assurance that it will not adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Publicly held companies in general and the financial services industry, in particular, are sometimes the target of law enforcement investigations and the focus of increased regulatory scrutiny.The financial services industry has become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities relating to allegations of improper special payments, price-fixing, bid-rigging, and other alleged misconduct, including payments made by insurers and other financial services providers to brokers and the practices surrounding the placement of insurance business and sales of other financial products.17Table of ContentsNew accounting rules or changes to existing accounting rules could negatively impact the Company.Like all publicly traded companies, the Company is required to comply with GAAP. A number of organizations are instrumental in the development and interpretation of GAAP, such as the SEC, the FASB, and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA).GAAP is subject to constant review by these organizations and others in an effort to address emerging accounting issues and develop interpretative accounting guidance on a continual basis. The implementation of new accounting guidance could result in substantial costs and or changes in assumptions or estimates, which could negatively impact the results of operations for the Company. Accordingly, the Company can give no assurance that future changes to GAAP or the required adherence to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) will not have a negative impact on the Company.In addition, the Company is required to comply with statutory accounting principles (SAP). SAP and various components of SAP, such as statutory actuarial reserving methodology, are subject to constant review by the NAIC, NAIC taskforces and committees, as well as state insurance departments to address emerging issues and otherwise improve or modify financial reporting. Various proposals are typically pending before committees and taskforces of the NAIC. If enacted, some of these may negatively affect the Company and some could positively impact the Company. The NAIC also typically works to reform state regulation in various areas, including reforms relating to life insurance reserves and the accounting for such reserves. The Company cannot predict whether or in what manner reforms will be enacted and, if so, whether the enacted reforms will positively or negatively affect the Company. Although states generally defer to the interpretation of the insurance department of the state of domicile with regards to regulations and guidelines, neither the action of the domiciliary state nor action of the NAIC is binding on a state. Accordingly, a state could choose to follow a different interpretation. The Company can give no assurance that future changes to SAP or components of SAP will not have a negative impact on the Company.Changes to tax law or interpretations of existing tax law could adversely affect the Company and its ability to compete with non-insurance products or could reduce the demand for certain insurance products.Under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), income tax payable by policyholders on investment earnings is deferred during the accumulation period of certain life insurance and annuity products. This favorable tax treatment may give certain of the Company’s products a competitive advantage over other non-insurance products. To the extent that the Code is revised to reduce the tax-deferred status of life insurance and annuity products or to increase the tax-deferred status of competing products, all life insurance companies, including the Company, would be adversely affected with respect to their ability to sell such products. Further, depending upon grandfathering provisions, life insurance companies would be affected by the surrenders of existing annuity contracts and life insurance policies. Changes in tax law, which have reduced the federal income tax rates on corporate dividends in certain circumstances, could make the tax advantages of investing in certain life insurance or annuity products less attractive. Additionally, changes in tax law based on proposals to establish new tax-advantaged retirement and life savings plans, if enacted, could reduce the tax advantage of investing in certain life insurance or annuity products. The Company cannot predict what changes to tax law or interpretations of existing tax law may ultimately be enacted or whether such changes could adversely affect the Company.Litigation Risk:Financial services companies are frequently the targets of litigation, including class action litigation, which could result in substantial judgments.A number of civil jury verdicts have been returned against insurers, broker-dealers, and other providers of financial services involving sales or claims practices; alleged agent misconduct; failure to properly supervise representatives; relationships with agents or other persons with whom the insurer does business; and other matters. Often these lawsuits have resulted in the award of substantial judgments that are disproportionate to the actual damages, including material amounts of punitive non-economic compensatory damages. In some states, juries, judges, and arbitrators have substantial discretion in awarding punitive and non-economic compensatory damages, which creates the potential for unpredictable material adverse judgments or awards in any given lawsuit or arbitration. Arbitration awards are subject to very limited appellate review. In addition, in some class actions and other lawsuits, companies have made material settlement payments.The Company, like other financial services companies, is involved in litigation and arbitration in the ordinary course of business. Although the Company makes every effort to appropriately accrue liability for litigation and other legal proceedings, the outcome of such matters (including any amount of settlement, judgment or fine) is inherently difficult to predict. As a result, an adverse development or an increase in associated legal fees could have a negative impact on the financial condition of the Company.18Table of ContentsCatastrophic Event Risk:The Company is exposed to the risks of climate change, natural disasters, pandemics, or other acts that could adversely affect the Company’s operations.While the Company has implemented risk management and contingency plans and taken preventive measures and other precautions, no predictions of specific scenarios can be made nor can assurance be given that there are not scenarios that could have an adverse effect on the Company. Climate change, a natural disaster, a pandemic, or an outbreak of an easily communicable disease could adversely affect the mortality or morbidity experience of the Company or its reinsurers. A pandemic could also have an adverse effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies. In addition, a pandemic could result in large areas being subject to quarantine, with the result that economic activity slows or ceases, adversely affecting the marketing or administration of the Company’s business. These effects, in turn, could have an adverse financial effect on the Company. The possible macroeconomic effects of climate change, natural disasters, or pandemics could also adversely affect the Company’s asset portfolio, as well as many other variables.Information Technology Risk:Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential corporate or customer information through social media outlets or through a breach of the Company’s computer systems may not be prevented by the Company’s cybersecurity controls.As part of the Company’s normal course of business, it collects, processes, and retains sensitive and confidential corporate and customer information. In addition, the Company uses third-party vendors and cloud technology on a limited basis for storage, processing, and data support of certain activities. Despite the cybersecurity measures the Company has in place, its facilities and systems may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human error, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by the Company could severely damage its reputation, expose it to an increase in the risk of litigation, disrupt its operations, incur significant technical, legal, and operating expenses, or otherwise harm its business.While the Company has limited social media content, it recognizes that social media outlets are independent of the Company and its security measures. Inaccurate presentations based upon incorrect information or assumptions could be distributed via social media outlets and could harm the Company and its reputation.Reinsurance Risks:Significant adverse mortality experience may result in the loss of, or higher prices for, reinsurance.Prolonged or severe adverse mortality or morbidity experience could result in increased reinsurance costs, and ultimately, reinsurers not being willing to offer coverage. If the Company was unable to maintain its current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts considered sufficient, the Company would either have to be willing to accept an increase in net exposures or revise pricing to reflect higher reinsurance premiums. If this were to occur, the Company may be exposed to reduced profitability and cash flow strain or may not be able to price new business at competitive rates.The Company’s reinsurers could fail to meet assumed obligations or be subject to adverse developments that could affect the Company.The Company follows the insurance practice of reinsuring a portion of the risks under the policies written by the Company (known as ceding). The Company cedes significant amounts of insurance to other insurance companies through reinsurance. This reinsurance makes the assuming reinsurer liable to the Company for the reinsured portion of the risk. However, reinsurance does not discharge the Company from its primary obligation to pay policyholders for losses insured under the policies that are issued. Therefore, the Company is subject to the credit risk of reinsurers and the failure of one or more of the Company’s reinsurers could negatively impact the Company’s earnings and financial position.The Company’s ability to compete is dependent on the availability of reinsurance, cost of reinsurance, or other substitute capital market solutions.Premium rates charged by the Company are based, in part, on the assumption that reinsurance will be available at a certain cost. Under certain reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer may increase the rate it charges the Company for the reinsurance. Therefore, if the cost of reinsurance were to increase for existing business, or if reinsurance were to become unavailable for new business, or if alternatives to reinsurance were not available, the Company could be adversely affected.Recently, access to reinsurance has become more costly for the Company, as well as the insurance industry in general. In recent years, the number of life reinsurers has decreased as the reinsurance industry has consolidated. The decreased number of participants 19Table of Contentsin the life reinsurance market results in increased concentration risk for insurers, including the Company. If the reinsurance market further contracts, the Company’s ability to continue to offer its products on terms favorable to the Company could be adversely impacted.The use of reinsurance introduces variability in the Company’s financial statements.The timing of premium payments to and receipt of expense allowances from reinsurers may differ from the Company’s receipt of customer premium or deposit payments and incurrence of expenses. Reinsurance may introduce variability in certain components of the Company’s financial statements.20Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.