ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Like other companies in our industry, our consolidated financial results will be impacted by weather, the economy of our service territory and the energy use of our customers. The value of our common stock and our creditworthiness will be affected by national and international macroeconomic trends, general market conditions and the expectations of the investment community, all of which are largely beyond our control. In addition, the following statements highlight risk factors that may affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. These are not intended to be an exhaustive discussion of all such risks, and the statements below must be read together with factors discussed elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC. Our Revenues Depend Upon Rates Determined by the KCC The KCC regulates many aspects of our business and operations, including the rates that we charge customers for retail electric service. Retail rates are set by the KCC using a cost-of-service approach that takes into account historical operating expenses, fixed obligations and recovery of and a return on capital investments. Using this approach, the KCC sets rates at a level calculated to recover such costs and a permitted return on investment. Other parties to a rate review or the KCC staff may contend that our rates are excessive. Effective January 2006, the KCC authorized changes that left our base rates virtually unchanged but approved various changes to our rate structure that allow some adjustment to our prices. The KCC approved the RECA, which allows us to recover cost of fuel for generation and purchased power expense (less margins earned on wholesale sales). It also authorized us to implement the ECRR, which allows us to change our rates to reflect the impact of capital expenditures made to upgrade our equipment to environmental standards required by the Clean Air Act. Our Costs May Not be Fully Recovered in Retail Rates Except to the extent the KCC permits us to modify our prices by using specific adjustments and riders such as the RECA and the ECRR, once established by the KCC, our rates generally remain fixed until changed in a subsequent rate review. We may apply to change our rates or intervening parties may request that the KCC review our rates for possible adjustment, subject to any limitations that may have been ordered by the KCC. Equipment Failures and Other External Factors Can Adversely Affect Our Results The generation and transmission of electricity requires the use of expensive and complicated equipment. While we have maintenance programs in place, generating plants are subject to unplanned outages because of equipment failure. In these events, we must either produce replacement power from our other, usually less efficient, units or purchase power from others at unpredictable and potentially higher cost in order to meet our sales obligations. In addition, equipment failure can limit our ability to make opportunistic sales to wholesale customers. Fuel Deliveries Can Be Interrupted or Slowed and Transmission Systems May Be Constrained Coal deliveries from the PRB region of Wyoming, the primary source for our coal, can be interrupted or can be slowed due to rail traffic congestion, equipment or track failure, or due to loading problems at the mines. This may require that we implement coal conservation efforts and/or take other compensating measures. We experienced these problems and conserved coal to varying degrees in 2005 and 2006. These measures may include, but are not limited to, reducing coal consumption by revising normal dispatch of generation units, purchasing power or using more expensive power to serve customers and decreasing or, if necessary, eliminating opportunistic wholesale sales. In addition, decisions or mistakes by other utilities may adversely affect our ability to use transmission lines to deliver or import power, thus subjecting us to unexpected expenses or to the cost and uncertainty of public policy initiatives. These factors, along with the prices and price volatility of fuel and wholesale electricity are largely beyond our control. Costs that are not recovered through the RECA could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, cash flows and financial position. We engage in energy marketing transactions to reduce risk from market fluctuations, enhance system reliability and increase profits. The events mentioned above could reduce our ability to participate in energy marketing opportunities, which could reduce our profits. 22 Table of Contents We May Have Material Financial Exposure Relating to Environmental Matters On January 22, 2004, the EPA notified us that certain projects completed at Jeffrey Energy Center violated certain New Source Review permitting requirements under the Clean Air Act. This notification was delivered as part of an investigation by the EPA regarding maintenance activities that have been conducted since 1980 at Jeffrey Energy Center. The costs to resolve this investigation, or any related enforcement action, could be material and could include fines and penalties as well as costs to install new emission control systems at Jeffrey Energy Center and at certain of our other coal-fired power plants. Our activities are subject to extensive and changing environmental regulation by federal, state, and local governmental authorities, particularly relating to air emissions. In addition to laws currently in effect, numerous laws and regulations have been enacted and proposed relating to increasing national and international concern about possible global warming caused by the atmospheric release of CO2 and other gases by industrial and other sources, including the utility industry. On November 15, 2007, the governors of six Midwestern states, including Kansas, signed the Midwest Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, under which the member states will, among other things, establish greenhouse gas reduction targets and develop a market-based and multi-sector cap-and-trade mechanism to help achieve such targets. In addition, on October 18, 2007, the KDHE denied an application by an unrelated utility for an air quality permit for two new proposed coal generators in Western Kansas in part because of concerns about the increase in CO2 and emissions and the potential ill effects those plants might have on the environment and health. The KDHE noted that the decision constituted a first step in emerging policy to address existing and future CO2 emissions in Kansas. The Midwest Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord or other new or changed laws and regulations, as well as third party litigation that may be brought against us or our competitors, could result in requirements to install costly equipment, increase our operating expense, reduce production from our plants or take other actions we are unable to identify at this time. The degree to which we may need to reduce emissions and the timing of when such emissions control equipment may be required is uncertain. Both the timing and the nature of required investments depend on specific outcomes that result from interpretation of existing regulations, new regulations, legislation, and the resolution of the NSR Investigation described above. Although we expect to recover in our rates most of the costs that we incur to comply with environmental regulations, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to fully and timely recover such costs or the costs of any failure to comply with laws and regulations. Failure to recover these associated costs could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. Accounting Regulations Unique to Public Utilities Could Change We currently apply the accounting principles of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 71, “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation,” to our regulated business. As of December 31, 2007, we had recorded $533.8 million of regulatory assets, net of regulatory liabilities. In the event we determined that we could no longer apply the principles of SFAS No. 71, either as: (i) a result of the establishment of retail competition in our service territory; (ii) a change in the regulatory approach for setting rates from cost-based ratemaking to another form of ratemaking; or (iii) other regulatory actions that restrict cost recovery to a level insufficient to recover costs, we would be required to record a charge against income in the amount of the remaining unamortized net regulatory assets. Such an action would materially reduce our shareholders’ equity. We periodically review these criteria to ensure the continuing application of SFAS No. 71 is appropriate. Based upon current evaluation of the various factors that are expected to impact future cost recovery, we believe that our regulatory assets are probable of recovery. 23 Table of Contents We Face Financial Risks Associated With Wolf Creek Risks of substantial liability arise from the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, including, among others, structural problems at a nuclear facility, the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials, limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available, uncertainties with respect to the cost and technological aspects of nuclear decommissioning at the end of their useful lives and costs or measures associated with public safety. In the event of an extended or unscheduled outage at Wolf Creek, we would be required to generate power from more costly generating units, purchase power in the open market to replace the power normally produced at Wolf Creek and we would have less power available for sale into the wholesale markets. If we were not permitted by the KCC to recover these costs, such events would likely have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition. Our Planned Capital Expenditures Are Significant To Our Results Of Operations During the period from 2008 through 2010 and for the immediate years beyond, we plan to continue significant capital expenditures toward large projects including the expansion and modernization of our generation fleet and transmission network. Our anticipated capital expenditures for the period from 2008 through 2010, including costs of removal, are approximately $2.5 billion. Estimated costs for these capital projects have increased, in some cases significantly, as a result of rising demand for material, equipment and labor. In addition, delays in engineering and construction times can occur throughout our industry. Because our capital expenditure program is large in comparison to our revenues and assets, cost increases or delays could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. In addition, in order to fund our capital expenditure program, we rely to a large degree on access to our short-term credit facility and to long-term capital markets for debt and equity as sources of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. The secured debt of Westar Energy and KGE is rated investment grade by all three of the best known rating agencies, and the unsecured debt of Westar Energy and KGE is rated investment grade by two of the three best known rating agencies, but we cannot assure that such debt will continue to be rated investment grade. If the rating agencies were to downgrade Westar Energy’s or KGE’s secured or unsecured debt, our borrowing costs and the interest rates we pay on short-term and long-term debt would likely increase, possibly significantly. Further, market disruptions could increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access financial markets. Additional issuance of equity securities could dilute the value of our shares of our common stock and cause the market price of our common stock to fall. These factors could hinder our access to capital markets and limit or delay our ability to carry out our capital expenditure program. Further, our recovery of capital expenditures depends in large degree on the outcome of retail and wholesale rate proceedings. Decisions made by the KCC or FERC, or delays in making such decisions, could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 