ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe operate in market and regulatory environments that involve significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, including "Item 1. Business" and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and in other documents we file with the SEC from time to time, the following factors may affect our results of operations, our cash flows and the market prices of our publicly traded securities. These factors may cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. The factors listed below are not intended to be an exhaustive discussion of all such risks, and the statements below must be read together with factors discussed elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC.Weather conditions, including mild and severe weather, may adversely impact our consolidated financial results.Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity. Our customers use electricity for heating in winter months and cooling in summer months. Because of air conditioning demand, typically we produce our highest revenues in the third quarter. Milder temperatures reduce demand for electricity and have a corresponding affect on our revenues. Unusually mild weather in the future could adversely affect our consolidated financial results.In addition, severe weather conditions can produce storms that can inflict extensive damage to our equipment and facilities which can require us to incur additional operating and maintenance expense and additional capital expenditures. Our prices may not always be adjusted timely and adequately to reflect these higher costs. Additionally, because many of our power plants use water for cooling, severe drought conditions could result in limited power production. High water conditions can also impair planned deliveries of fuel to our plants. Our prices are subject to regulatory review and may not prove adequate.We must obtain from state and federal regulators the authority to establish terms and prices for our services. The KCC and, for most of our wholesale customers, FERC, use a cost-of-service approach that takes into account operating expenses, fixed obligations and recovery of and return on capital investments. Using this approach, the KCC and FERC set prices at levels calculated to recover these costs and a permitted return on investment. Except for wholesale transactions for which the price is not so regulated, and except to the extent the KCC and FERC permit us to modify our prices through the application of formulae that track changes in certain of our costs, our prices generally remain fixed until changed following a rate review. Further, the adjustments may be modified, limited or eliminated by regulatory or legislative actions. We may apply to change our prices or intervening parties may request that our prices be reviewed for possible adjustment.Rate proceedings through which our prices and terms of service are determined typically involve numerous parties including electricity consumers, consumer advocates and governmental entities, some of whom frequently take positions adverse to us. The decision making process used in these proceedings may or may not be subject to statutory timelines, and in any event regulators' decisions may be appealed to the courts by us or other parties to the proceedings. These factors may lead to uncertainty and delays in implementing changes to our prices or terms of service. There can be no assurance that our regulators will find all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. A finding that costs have been imprudently incurred can lead to disallowance of recovery for those costs. The prices approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for us to recover our costs and to provide for an adequate return on and of capital investments. We cannot predict the outcome of any rate review or the actions of our regulators. The outcome of rate proceedings, or delays in implementing price changes to reflect changes in our costs, could have a material affect on our consolidated financial results. Significant decisions about capital investments are based on forecasts of long-term demand for energy incorporating assumptions about multiple, uncertain factors. Our actual experience may differ significantly from our assumptions, which may adversely impact our consolidated financial results.We attempt to forecast demand to determine the timing and adequacy of our energy and energy delivery resources. Long-term forecasts involve risks because they rely on assumptions we make concerning uncertain factors including weather, technological change, economic conditions, regulatory requirements, social pressures and the responsiveness of customers' electricity demand to conservation measures and prices. Actual future demand depends on these and other factors and may vary materially from our forecasts. If our actual experience varies significantly from our forecasts, our consolidated financial results may be adversely affected.20Table of ContentsOur ability to fund our capital expenditures and meet our working capital and liquidity needs may be limited by conditions in the bank and capital markets or by our credit ratings or the market price of Westar Energy's common stock.To fund our capital expenditures and for working capital and liquidity, we rely on access to capital markets and to short-term credit. Disruption in capital markets, deterioration in the financial condition of the financial institutions on which we rely, any credit rating downgrade or any decrease in the market price of Westar Energy's common stock may make capital more difficult and costly for us to obtain, may restrict liquidity available to us, may require us to defer or limit capital investments or impact operations, or may reduce the value of our financial assets. These and other related affects may have an adverse impact on our business and consolidated financial results, including our ability to pay dividends and to make investments or undertake programs necessary to meet regulatory mandates and customer demand.Our planned capital investment for the next few years is large in relation to our size, subjecting us to significant risks.Our anticipated capital expenditures for 2012 through 2014 are approximately $2.5 billion. In addition to risks discussed above associated with recovering capital investments through our prices, and risks associated with our reliance on the capital markets and short-term credit to fund those investments, our capital expenditure program poses risks, including, but not necessarily limited to:•shortages, disruption in the delivery and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials and labor;•contractor or supplier non-performance;•delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals and other regulatory authorizations;•impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements;•adverse weather;•unforeseen engineering problems or changes in project design or scope;•environmental and geological conditions; and•unanticipated cost increases with respect to labor or materials, including basic commodities needed for our infrastructure such as steel, copper and aluminum.These and other factors, or any combination of them, could cause us to defer or limit our capital expenditure program and could adversely impact our consolidated financial results. Capital market conditions can cause fluctuations in the values of assets set aside for employee benefit obligations and the Wolf Creek nuclear decommissioning trust (NDT) and may increase our funding requirements related to these obligations.We have significant future financial obligations with respect to employee benefit obligations and the Wolf Creek NDT. The value of the assets needed to meet those obligations are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our expectations, upon which we plan to meet our obligations. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the value of future liabilities. In general, when interest rates decline, the value of future liabilities increase. While the KCC allows us to implement a regulatory accounting mechanism to track certain of our employee benefit plan expenses, this mechanism does not allow us to make automatic price adjustments. Only in future rate proceedings may we be allowed to adjust our prices to reflect changes in our funding requirements for these benefit plans. Further, the tracking mechanism for these benefit plan expenses is part of our overall rate structure, and as such it is subject to KCC review and may be modified, limited or eliminated in the future. If these assets are not managed successfully, our consolidated financial results and cash flows could be adversely affected.Adverse economic conditions could adversely impact our operations and consolidated financial results.Our operations are affected by economic conditions. Adverse general economic conditions including a prolonged recession or capital market disruptions may:•reduce demand for our service;•increase delinquencies or non-payment by customers;•adversely impact the financial condition of suppliers, which may in turn limit our access to inventory or capital equipment or increase our costs;•increase deductibles and premiums and result in more restrictive policy terms under insurance policies regarding risks we typically insure against, or make insurance claims more difficult to collect; 21Table of Contents•result in lower worldwide demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which may decrease fossil fuel prices and put downward pressure on electricity prices; and•reduce the credit available to our energy trading counterparties and correspondingly reduce our energy trading activity or increase our exposure to counterparty default.In the opposite, unexpectedly strong economic conditions can result in increased costs and shortages. Any of the aforementioned events, and others we may not be able to identify, could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial results.Deliveries of fuel for our plants may be interrupted or slowed, which may adversely impact our consolidated financial results.We purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas and uranium, from a number of suppliers. Disruption in the delivery of fuel or environmental regulations affecting any of our fuel suppliers could limit our ability to operate our facilities. In addition, the markets for coal, natural gas and uranium are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default. It is not possible to predict the cost or availability of these commodities. Such costs, if not recovered in our prices, could have a material adverse affect on our consolidated financial results. We are subject to complex governmental regulation that could require us to incur additional expenses or subject us to penalties.Our operations are subject to extensive regulation and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental agencies. New laws or regulations, the revision or reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, or penalties imposed for non-compliance with existing laws or regulations may require us to incur additional expenses, which could have a material affect on our consolidated financial results. We could be subject to penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Westar Energy and KGE, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by FERC. If we were found to be out of compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, which we might not be able to recover in the prices we charge our customers. This could have a material affect on our consolidated financial results. Our costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations are significant, and the future costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and consolidated financial results.We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to discharges into the air, air quality, discharges of effluents into water, water quality, the use of water, the handling, disposal and clean-up of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes, natural resources, and health and safety. Compliance with these legal requirements, which change frequently and often become more restrictive, requires us to commit significant capital and operating resources toward permitting, emission fees, environmental monitoring, installation and operation of air quality control equipment and purchases of air emission allowances and/or offsets. Costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations or fines or penalties resulting from non-compliance, if not recovered in our prices, could adversely affect our operations and/or consolidated financial results, especially if emission and/or discharge limits are tightened, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed, additional substances become regulated and the number and types of assets we operate increases. We cannot estimate our compliance costs or any possible fines or penalties with certainty, or the degree to which such costs might be recovered in our prices, due to our inability to predict the requirements and timing of implementation of environmental rules or regulations.22Table of ContentsSecurity breaches, terrorist attacks and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could directly or indirectly interfere with our operations, could expose us or our customers or employees to a risk of loss, and could expose us to liability, regulatory penalties, reputational damage and other harm to our business. We rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, supply chain functions, and the invoicing and collection of payments from our customers. We also use information technology systems to record, process and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Our technology networks and systems collect and store sensitive data including system operating information, propriety business information belonging to us and third parties, and personal information belonging to our customers and employees. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, or other disruptions during software or hardware upgrades, telecommunication failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and energy marketing and trading functions; could expose us or our customers or employees to a risk of loss or misuse of information; and could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties against us, damage our reputation or otherwise harm our business. We cannot accurately assess the probability that a security breach may occur, despite the measures that we take to prevent such a breach, and we are unable to quantify the potential impact of such an event.Additionally, we cannot predict the impact that any future information technology or terrorist attack may have on the energy industry in general. Our facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of such attacks. The effects of such attacks could include disruption to our generation, transmission and distribution systems or to the electrical grid in general, and could increase the cost of insurance coverage or result in a decline in the U.S. economy. The effect of pending and/or proposed environmental laws, such as CSAPR and MATS for power plants, could have a material effect on our operations and consolidated financial results.Laws and regulations governing the emissions of air pollutants from power plants are becoming increasingly stringent. For example, in July 2011, the EPA finalized CSAPR, which, if upheld, would require us and other power plants in 28 states including Kansas, Oklahoma and Missouri, to reduce NOx and SO2 emissions. In December 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued its ruling to stay CSAPR pending judicial review. The court is scheduled to hear the cases in April 2012. Under this timeframe, the court could issue its decision by summer or early fall 2012. If CSAPR (or material aspects of it) survive legal and Congressional challenge, we expect that we could have to modify the way in which we use our power plants, purchase power or purchase emission allowances. If we are unable or choose not to reduce our emissions, there are no assurances there will be sufficient allowances or power from other utilities available in the market or, if available, they may be purchased only at a prohibitive cost. If we do not reduce our emissions or cannot buy sufficient allowances or other power, we may need to shut down certain generating units, which could have a material effect on our operations and consolidated financial results. Finally, if we do choose to reduce our emissions, given CSAPR's tight timelines, we may not be able to reduce emissions by the stated deadlines stated in CSAPR, which could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions. In addition, the EPA finalized MATS for power plants in December 2011. If that rule survives legal and Congressional challenges, it will require us to install costly pollution control technology or, if that is not possible or economically feasible, to shut down certain generating units, each of which could have a material effect on our operations and/or consolidated financial results. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Current Trends - Environmental Regulation - Air Emissions" for additional information.We may be subject to legislative and regulatory responses to concerns about climate change, which could require us to incur substantial costs.We combust large amounts of fossil fuels as we produce electricity. This results in significant emissions of CO2 and other GHGs through the operation of our power plants. Federal legislation has been in the past and may in the future be introduced in Congress to regulate the emission of GHGs and numerous states have adopted programs to stabilize or reduce GHG emissions. 23Table of ContentsAdditionally, the EPA regulates GHGs under the Clean Air Act. Under EPA regulations finalized in May 2010, the EPA is regulating GHG emissions from certain stationary sources, such as power plants, in January 2011. Under the current regulations, any source that emits at least 75,000 tons per year of GHGs is required to have a Title V operating permit under the Clean Air Act. The EPA is expected to issue a proposed rule in 2012 that may reduce the 75,000 ton threshold. Sources that already have a Title V permit would have GHG provisions added to their permit upon renewal. Additionally, PSD permits for new major sources of GHG emissions and GHG sources that undergo major modifications are required to implement BACT for the control of GHG emissions. The EPA has issued guidance on what BACT entails for the control of GHGs and individual states are now required to determine what controls are required for facilities within their jurisdiction on a case-by-case basis. These regulations could have a material impact on our operations or require us to incur substantial costs.Furthermore, in December 2010, the EPA announced that it would be proposing GHG NSPS rules for EGUs and refineries. The rules will apply to new and existing facilities. The EPA had announced that it would propose the new rules by September 30, 2011, but has postponed the proposed rules for new and modified EGUs. It is unclear when the EPA will propose new rules for existing EGUs and how stringent they may be, but the rules are expected. Because these regulations have yet to be proposed or finalized, we cannot predict the impact they may have on our operations or consolidated financial results, but it could be material.Our cost of compliance with future federal regulations relating to the disposal of CCBs could require us to incur substantial costs.In the course of operations, many of our facilities generate CCBs, including fly ash and bottom ash, which we must handle, dispose of, recycle or process. In June 2010, the EPA proposed a rule to regulate CCBs under RCRA. The proposed rule provides two possible options for CCB regulation, one of which would subject CCBs to increased regulation as special waste under Subtitle C of RCRA. The EPA is expected to issue a final rule in 2012. While the impact and cost associated with the potential future regulation of CCBs cannot be established until such regulations are finalized, such regulations could have a material impact on our operations and/or consolidated financial results.Our risk management policies cannot eliminate price volatility and counterparty credit risks associated with our energy marketing activities.We engage in energy marketing transactions with the goal of managing our commodity price risk, enhancing system reliability and increasing profits. We operate in an active wholesale market that exposes us to price volatility for electricity, fuel and other commodities. The prices we use to value these transactions reflect our best estimates of the fair value of these contracts. Results actually achieved from these activities could vary materially from intended results and could cause significant earnings variability. In addition, we are exposed to credit risks of our counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail to perform their obligations to make payments or deliveries. Defaults by suppliers or other counterparties may adversely affect our consolidated financial results.We attempt to manage our exposure to price volatility and counterparty credit risk through application of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities.We are exposed to various risks associated with the ownership and operation of Wolf Creek, any of which could adversely impact our consolidated financial results.Through KGE's ownership interest in Wolf Creek, we are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, which include:•the risks associated with storing, handling and disposing of radioactive materials and the current lack of a long-term disposal solution for radioactive materials;•limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations;•uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning Wolf Creek at the end of its life; and•costs of measures associated with public safety.24Table of ContentsThe NRC has authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements enacted by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at Wolf Creek. In addition, the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) reviews Wolf Creek operations and facilities. Compliance with INPO recommendations could result in substantial capital expenditures or a substantial increase in operating expenses at Wolf Creek being passed through to KGE.If an incident did occur at Wolf Creek, it could have a material affect on our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, the non-compliance of other nuclear facilities operators with applicable regulations or the occurrence of a serious nuclear incident at other facilities anywhere in the world could result in increased regulation of the industry as a whole, which could in turn increase Wolf Creek's compliance costs and impact our consolidated financial results. Such events could also result in a shut down of Wolf Creek. In addition, in the event of an extended or unscheduled outage at Wolf Creek, we would be required to generate power from more costly generating units, purchase power in the open market to replace the power normally produced at Wolf Creek and have less power available for sale into the wholesale market. If we were unable to recover these costs in the prices we charge customers, such events would likely have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial results.Events could occur that would change the accounting principles for regulated utilities currently applicable to our business, which would have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial results.We currently apply accounting principles that are unique to regulated entities. As of December 31, 2011, we had recorded regulatory assets of $1.0 billion and regulatory liabilities of $271.4 million. In the event we determined that we could no longer apply these principles, either as: (i) a result of the establishment of retail competition in our service territory; (ii) a change in the regulatory approach for setting our prices from cost-based ratemaking to another form of ratemaking; (iii) a result of other regulatory actions that restrict cost recovery to a level insufficient to recover costs; or (iv) a change from current generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to another set of standards that does not recognize regulatory assets and/or liabilities, then we may be required to record a charge against income in an amount up to the remaining unamortized regulatory assets. Such an action would materially reduce our shareholders' equity. We review these criteria to ensure that the continuing application of these principles is appropriate each reporting period. Based upon our most current evaluation of the various factors that are expected to impact future cost recovery, we believe that our regulatory assets are probable of recovery.Equipment failures and other events beyond our control may cause extended or unplanned plant outages, which may adversely impact our consolidated financial results.The generation, distribution and transmission of electricity require the use of expensive and complicated equipment, much of which is aged, and all of which requires significant ongoing maintenance. Although we maintain our power plants and equipment, they are still subject to extended or unplanned outages because of equipment failure, weather, transmission system disruption, operator error, contractor or subcontractor failure and other factors beyond our control. In such events, we must either produce replacement power from our other plants, which may be less efficient or more expensive to operate, purchase power from others at unpredictable and potentially higher costs in order to meet our sales obligations, or suffer outages. Such events could also limit our ability to make sales to customers. Therefore, the occurrence of extended or unplanned outages could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.25Table of Contents