ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Like other companies in our industry, our consolidated financial results will be impacted by weather, the economy of our service territory and the energy use of our customers. The value of our common stock and our creditworthiness will be affected by national and international macroeconomic trends, general market conditions and the expectations of the investment community, all of which are largely beyond our control. In addition, the following statements highlight risk factors that may affect our consolidated financial statements. These are not intended to be an exhaustive discussion of all such risks, and the statements below must be read together with factors discussed elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC. Our Revenues Depend Upon Rates Determined by the KCC and FERC The KCC and FERC regulate many aspects of our business and operations, including the rates that we charge customers for electric service. Retail rates are set by the KCC while wholesale and transmission rates are set by FERC. Both the KCC and FERC use a cost-of-service approach that takes into account historical operating expenses, fixed obligations and recovery of and a return on capital investments. Using this approach, the KCC and FERC set rates at a level calculated to recover such costs and a permitted return on investment. On January 21, 2009, the KCC authorized a $130.0 million increase in our retail rates to reflect our investment in natural gas generation facilities, wind generation facilities and other capital projects, costs attributable to the 2007 ice storm, higher operating costs and an update of our capital structure. The new retail rates became effective on February 3, 2009. Our Costs May Not be Fully Recovered in Rates Except to the extent the KCC and FERC permit us to modify our prices by using specific adjustments and riders, such as the RECA, TDC and ECRR, our rates generally remain fixed until changed in a subsequent rate review. We may apply to change our rates or intervening parties may request that our rates be reviewed for possible adjustment. Equipment Failures and Other External Factors Can Adversely Affect Our Results The generation and transmission of electricity requires the use of expensive and complicated equipment. While we have maintenance programs in place, generating plants are subject to extended or unplanned outages because of equipment failure, weather, failure by our contractors or subcontractors to meet commitments and other factors largely beyond our control. In such events, we must either produce replacement power from our other, usually less efficient, units or purchase power from others at unpredictable and potentially higher costs in order to meet our sales obligations. In addition, such events can limit our ability to make opportunistic sales to wholesale customers. Fuel Deliveries Can Be Interrupted or Slowed and Transmission Systems May Be Constrained Coal deliveries from the PRB region of Wyoming, the primary source for our coal, can be interrupted or can be slowed due to rail traffic congestion, equipment or track failure or loading problems at the mines. This may require that we implement coal conservation efforts and/or take other compensating measures. We experienced these problems and conserved coal to varying degrees in 2006. These measures may include, but are not limited to, reducing coal consumption by revising normal dispatch of generation units, purchasing power or using more expensive power to serve customers and decreasing or, if necessary, eliminating opportunistic wholesale sales. In addition, decisions or mistakes by other utilities may adversely affect our ability to use transmission lines to deliver or import power, thus subjecting us to unexpected expenses or to the cost and uncertainty of public policy initiatives. These factors, along with the prices and price volatility of fuel and wholesale electricity are largely beyond our control. Costs that are not recovered through the RECA could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. We engage in energy marketing transactions to reduce risk from market fluctuations, enhance system reliability and increase profits. The events mentioned above could reduce our ability to participate in energy marketing opportunities, which could reduce our profits. 21 Table of Contents We May Have Material Financial Exposure Relating to Environmental Matters Under Section 114, the EPA is conducting investigations nationwide to determine whether modifications at coal-fired power plants are subject to the New Source Review permitting program or New Source Performance Standards. These investigations focus on whether projects at coal-fired plants were routine maintenance or whether the projects were substantial modifications that could reasonably have been expected to result in a significant net increase in emissions. The New Source Review program requires companies to obtain permits and, if necessary, install control equipment to address emissions when making a major modification or a change in operation if either is expected to cause a significant net increase in emissions. The EPA requested information from us under Section 114 regarding projects and maintenance activities that have been conducted since 1980 at three coal-fired plants we operate. On January 22, 2004, the EPA notified us that certain projects completed at Jeffrey Energy Center violated certain requirements of the New Source Review program. On February 4, 2009, the DOJ filed a lawsuit against us in U.S. District Court in the District of Kansas asserting substantially the same claims. A decision in favor of the DOJ and the EPA, or a settlement prior to such a decision, if reached, could require us to update or install emissions controls at Jeffrey Energy Center. Additionally, we might be required to update or install emissions controls at our other coal-fired plants, pay fines or penalties or take other remedial action. Our ultimate costs to resolve the NSR Investigation and the related DOJ lawsuit could be material. We believe that costs related to updating or installing emissions controls would qualify for recovery in the prices we are allowed to charge our customers. If, however, a penalty is assessed against us, the penalty could be material and may not be recovered in rates. We are not able to estimate the possible loss or range of loss at this time. Our activities are subject to extensive and changing environmental regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities, particularly relating to air emissions. In addition to laws currently in effect, numerous laws and regulations have been enacted and proposed relating to increasing national and international concern about possible global warming caused by the atmospheric release of CO2 and other gases by industrial and other sources, including the utility industry. On November 15, 2007, the governors of six Midwestern states, including Kansas, signed the Midwest Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, under which the member states will, among other things, establish greenhouse gas reduction targets and develop a market-based and multi-sector cap-and-trade mechanism to help achieve such targets. In addition, on October 18, 2007, the KDHE denied an application by an unrelated utility for an air quality permit for two new proposed coal generators in Western Kansas in part because of concerns about the increase in CO2 and emissions and the potential ill effects those plants might have on the environment and health. The KDHE noted that the decision constituted a first step in emerging policy to address existing and future CO2 emissions in Kansas. The Midwest Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord or other new or changed laws and regulations, as well as third party litigation that may be brought against us or our competitors, could result in requirements to install costly equipment, increase our operating expenses, reduce production from our plants or take other actions we are unable to identify at this time. The degree to which we may need to reduce emissions and the timing of when such emissions control equipment may be required is uncertain. Both the timing and the nature of required investments depend on specific outcomes that result from interpretation of existing regulations, new regulations, legislation and the resolution of the NSR Investigation and the related DOJ lawsuit described above. Although we expect to recover in our rates most of the costs that we incur to comply with environmental regulations, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to fully and timely recover such costs or the costs of any failure to comply with laws and regulations. Failure to recover these associated costs could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. 22 Table of Contents Accounting Regulations Unique to Public Utilities Could Change We currently apply the accounting principles of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 71, “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation,” to our regulated business. As of December 31, 2008, we had recorded $829.2 million of regulatory assets, net of regulatory liabilities. In the event we determined that we could no longer apply the principles of SFAS No. 71, either as: (i) a result of the establishment of retail competition in our service territory; (ii) a change in the regulatory approach for setting rates from cost-based ratemaking to another form of ratemaking; (iii) a result of other regulatory actions that restrict cost recovery to a level insufficient to recover costs; or (iv) a change from current generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to another set of standards that does not recognize regulatory assets or liabilities, we would be required to record a charge against income in the amount of the remaining unamortized net regulatory assets. Such an action would materially reduce our shareholders’ equity. We periodically review these criteria to ensure the continuing application of SFAS No. 71 is appropriate. Based upon current evaluation of the various factors that are expected to impact future cost recovery, we believe that our regulatory assets are probable of recovery. We Face Financial Risks Associated With Wolf Creek Risks of substantial liability arise from the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, including, among others, structural problems at a nuclear facility, the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials, limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available, uncertainties with respect to the cost and technological aspects of nuclear decommissioning at the end of their useful lives and costs or measures associated with public safety. In the event of an extended or unscheduled outage at Wolf Creek, we would be required to generate power from more costly generating units, purchase power in the open market to replace the power normally produced at Wolf Creek and we would have less power available for sale into the wholesale markets. If we were not permitted by the KCC to recover these costs, such events would likely have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. Our Planned Capital Expenditures Are Significant To Our Results Of Operations During the period from 2009 through 2011 and for the immediate years beyond, we plan to continue significant capital expenditures toward large projects including the expansion and modernization of our generation fleet and transmission network. Our anticipated capital expenditures for the period from 2009 through 2011, including costs of removal, are approximately $2.4 billion. Delays in engineering and construction times can occur throughout our industry. Because our capital expenditure program is large in comparison to our revenues and assets, cost increases or delays could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. In addition, in order to fund our capital expenditure program, we rely to a large degree on access to our short-term credit facility and to long-term capital markets for debt and equity as sources of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. The secured and unsecured debt of Westar Energy and KGE are rated investment grade by all three of the best known rating agencies, but we cannot assure that such debt will continue to be rated investment grade. If the rating agencies were to downgrade Westar Energy’s or KGE’s secured or unsecured debt, our borrowing costs and the interest rates we pay on short-term and long-term debt would likely increase, possibly significantly. Further, market disruptions could increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access financial markets. Additional issuance of equity securities could dilute the value of our shares of our common stock and cause the market price of our common stock to fall. These factors could hinder our access to capital markets and limit or delay our ability to carry out our capital expenditure program. Further, our recovery of capital expenditures depends in large degree on the outcome of retail and wholesale rate proceedings. Decisions made by the KCC or FERC, or delays in making such decisions, could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 23 Table of Contents Uncertainty in the Credit Markets and the Impact on the Economy in Our Service Territory Continuing turmoil in the global credit markets, and the slowing of the global and U.S. economies, may have a number of effects on our operations, financial condition and capital expenditure program. While we cannot provide an exhaustive list of all possible effects, these market conditions may make capital more difficult and costly to obtain; may restrict liquidity available to us through our revolving credit facility; may reduce demand by our customers and increase delinquencies or non-payment by our customers; may adversely impact the financial condition of our suppliers, which may in turn limit our access to inventory or capital equipment; may reduce the credit available to our energy trading counterparties and correspondingly reduce our energy trading activity or increase our exposure to counterparty default; may require us to defer or limit elements of our capital expenditure program; may reduce the value of our financial assets and correspondingly adversely impact our earnings and net cash flow; may require us to provide additional funding to our nuclear decommissioning and pension trusts; and may increase the cost or decrease the availability of insurance to us or make insurance claims more difficult to collect. These and other related effects may have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements and in extreme circumstances, the combination of some or all of these effects might impact amounts available for the payment of dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 