ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in market and regulatory environments that involve significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, including “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in other documents we file with the SEC from time to time, the following factors may affect our results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of our publicly traded securities. These factors may cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. The factors listed below are not intended to be an exhaustive discussion of all such risks, and the statements below must be read together with factors discussed elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC. Weather conditions, including mild and severe weather, may adversely impact our consolidated financial results. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity. Our customers use electricity for heating in winter months and cooling in summer months. Because of air conditioning demand, typically we produce our highest revenues in the third quarter. Milder temperatures reduce demand for electricity and have a corresponding effect on our revenues. Unusually mild weather in the future could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. In addition, severe weather conditions can produce storms that can inflict heavy damage to our equipment and facilities that can require us to incur additional operating and maintenance expense and additional capital expenditures. Our prices may not always be adjusted timely and adequately to reflect these higher costs. Additionally, because many of our power plants use water for cooling, severe drought conditions could result in limited power production. Our prices are subject to regulatory review and may not prove adequate. We must obtain from state and federal regulators the authority to establish terms and prices for our services. The KCC and, for most of our wholesale customers, FERC, use a cost-of-service approach that takes into account operating expenses, fixed obligations and recovery of and return on capital investments. Using this approach, the KCC and FERC set prices at levels calculated to recover these costs and a permitted return on investment. Except for wholesale transactions for which the price is not so regulated, and except to the extent the KCC and FERC permit us to modify our prices by using approved formulae, our prices generally remain fixed until changed following a rate review. Further, the adjustments and formulae may be modified, limited or eliminated by regulatory or legislative actions. We may apply to change our prices or intervening parties may request that our prices be reviewed for possible adjustment. Rate proceedings through which our prices and terms of service are determined typically involve numerous parties including electricity consumers, consumer advocacy groups and governmental entities, some of whom frequently take positions adverse to us. The decision making process used in these proceedings may or may not be subject to statutory timelines, and in any event regulators’ decisions may be appealed to the courts by us or other parties to the proceedings. These factors may lead to uncertainty and delay in implementing changes to our prices or terms of service. There can be no assurance that our regulators will judge all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. A finding that costs have been imprudently incurred can lead to disallowance of recovery for those costs. The rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for us to recover our costs and to provide for an adequate return on and of capital investments. We cannot predict the outcome of any rate review or the actions of our regulators. The ultimate outcome of rate proceedings, or delays in implementation of new prices regarding costs that we have already incurred, could have a significant effect on our ability to recover costs and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. 23 Table of Contents Significant decisions about capital investments are based on long-term demand forecasts incorporating assumptions about multiple, uncertain factors. Our actual experience may differ significantly from our assumptions, which may adversely impact our consolidated financial results. We use long-term demand forecasts to determine the timing and adequacy of our energy and energy delivery resources. Long-term forecasts involve risks because they rely on assumptions we make concerning uncertain factors including weather, technological change, economic conditions, regulatory requirements, social pressures and the responsiveness of customers’ electricity demand to conservation measures and prices. Actual future demand depends on these and other factors and may vary from our forecasts. If our actual experience varies significantly from our forecasts, our financial results may be adversely affected. Our ability to fund our capital expenditures and meet our working capital and liquidity needs may be limited by conditions in the bank and capital markets or by our credit ratings or the market price of Westar Energy’s common stock. To fund our capital expenditures and for working capital and liquidity, we rely on access to capital markets and to short-term credit. Disruption in capital markets, deterioration in the financial condition of the financial institutions on which we rely, any credit rating downgrade or any decrease in the market price of Westar Energy’s common stock may make capital more difficult and costly for us to obtain, may restrict liquidity available to us, may require us to defer or limit capital investments or operating initiatives, or may reduce the value of our financial assets. These and other related effects may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results, including our ability to pay dividends and to make investments or undertake programs necessary to meet regulatory mandates and customer demand. Our planned capital investment for the next few years is large in relation to our size, subjecting us to significant financial and operational risks. Our anticipated capital expenditures for 2010 through 2012 are approximately $2.4 billion. In addition to risks discussed above associated with recovering capital investments through our prices, and risks associated with our reliance on the capital markets and short-term credit to fund those investments, our capital expenditure program poses operational risks, including: • shortages, disruption in the delivery of, and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials and labor; • contractor or supplier non-performance; • delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals and other regulatory authorizations; • impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws, regulations and permit requirements; • adverse weather; • unforeseen engineering problems or changes in project design or scope; • environmental and geological conditions; and • unanticipated cost increases with respect to labor or materials, including basic commodities needed for our infrastructure such as steel, copper and aluminum. These and other factors, or any combination of them, could cause us to defer or limit our capital expenditure program and could adversely impact our consolidated financial results. 24 Table of Contents Capital market conditions can cause fluctuation in the values of assets set aside for employee benefit obligations and the Wolf Creek nuclear decommissioning trust and may increase our funding requirements related to these obligations. We have significant future financial obligations with respect to employee benefit obligations and the Wolf Creek nuclear decommissioning trust. The assets needed to meet those obligations are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our expectations, upon which we plan to meet our obligations. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the value of future liabilities. While the KCC has recently allowed us to implement a regulatory accounting mechanism to track certain of our employee benefit plan expenses, this mechanism does not allow us to make automatic price adjustments. Only in future rate proceedings may we be allowed to adjust our prices to reflect changes in our funding requirements for these benefit plans. Further, the tracking mechanism for these benefit plan expenses is part of our overall rate structure, and as such it is subject to KCC review and may be modified, limited or eliminated in the future. If these assets are not managed successfully, our consolidated financial results could be adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions could adversely impact our operations and our consolidated financial results. Our operations are affected by economic conditions, including the current recession. Adverse general economic conditions including a prolonged recession or capital market disruptions may: • reduce demand for our service; • increase delinquencies or non-payment by customers; • adversely impact the financial condition of suppliers, which may in turn limit our access to inventory or capital equipment; • increase deductibles and premiums and result in more restrictive policy terms under insurance policies regarding risks we typically insure against, or make insurance claims more difficult to collect; • result in lower worldwide demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which may decrease fossil fuel prices and put downward pressure on electricity prices; and • reduce the credit available to our energy trading counterparties and correspondingly reduce our energy trading activity or increase our exposure to counterparty default. Any of these events, and others we may not be able to identify, could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial results. Deliveries of fuel for our plants may be interrupted or slowed, which may adversely impact our consolidated financial results. We purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas and uranium, from a number of suppliers. Disruption in the delivery of fuel or environmental regulations affecting any of our fuel suppliers could limit our ability to operate our facilities. In addition, the supply markets for coal, natural gas and uranium are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default. It is not possible to predict the ultimate cost or availability of these commodities. Such costs, if not recovered in the prices we are allowed to charge, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. We are subject to complex governmental regulation that could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental agencies. We must also comply with environmental legislation and associated regulations. New laws or regulations, the revision or reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, or penalties imposed for non-compliance with existing laws or regulations may require us to incur additional expenses. 25 Table of Contents Our costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources, and health and safety. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to commit significant capital and operating resources toward permitting, emission fees, environmental monitoring, installation and operation of pollution control equipment and purchases of air emission allowances and/or offsets. We emit large amounts of CO2 and other gasses through the operation of our power plants. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to GHGs may be adopted and may result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on our generating facilities or increased compliance costs. Costs of compliance with environmental regulations, if not recovered in the prices we are allowed to charge, could adversely affect our consolidated financial results, especially if emission and/or discharge limits are tightened, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed, additional substances become regulated and the number and types of assets we operate increases. We cannot estimate our compliance costs with certainty due to our inability to predict the requirements and timing of implementation of any new environmental rule or regulation related to emissions. Our risk management policies cannot eliminate price volatility and counterparty credit risks associated with our energy marketing activities. We engage in energy marketing transactions with the goal of managing our commodity price risk, enhancing system reliability and increasing profits. We operate in active wholesale markets that expose us to price volatility for electricity and fuel and other commodities. The prices we use to value these transactions reflect our best estimates of the fair value of these contracts. Results actually achieved from these activities could vary materially from intended results and could cause significant earnings variability. In addition, we are exposed to credit risks of our counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail to perform their obligations to make payments or deliveries. Defaults by suppliers or other counterparties may adversely affect our consolidated financial results. We attempt to manage our exposure to price volatility and counterparty credit risk through application of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. We are exposed to various risks associated with the ownership and operation of Wolf Creek, any of which could adversely impact our consolidated financial results. Through KGE’s ownership of an interest in Wolf Creek, we are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, which include: • the risks associated with storing, handling and disposing of radioactive materials and the current lack of a long-term disposal solution for radioactive materials; • limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; • uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning Wolf Creek at the end of its life; and • costs of measures associated with public safety. 26 Table of Contents The NRC has authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements enacted by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at Wolf Creek. In addition, the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) reviews Wolf Creek operations and facilities. Compliance with INPO recommendations could result in substantial capital expenditures or a substantial increase in operating expenses at Wolf Creek being passed through to KGE. If an incident did occur at Wolf Creek, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, the non-compliance of other nuclear facilities operators with applicable regulations or the occurrence of a serious nuclear incident at other facilities could result in increased regulation of the industry as a whole, which could in turn increase Wolf Creek’s compliance costs and impact our consolidated financial results. In addition, in the event of an extended or unscheduled outage at Wolf Creek, we would be required to generate power from more costly generating units, purchase power in the open market to replace the power normally produced at Wolf Creek and have less power available for sale into the wholesale markets. If we were unable to recover these costs from customers, such events would likely have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial results. Events could occur that would change the accounting principles for regulated utilities currently applicable to our business, which would have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial results. We currently apply accounting principles that are unique to regulated entities. As of December 31, 2009, we had recorded $715.0 million of regulatory assets, net of regulatory liabilities. In the event we determined that we could no longer apply these principles, either as: (i) a result of the establishment of retail competition in our service territory; (ii) a change in the regulatory approach for setting rates from cost-based ratemaking to another form of ratemaking; (iii) a result of other regulatory actions that restrict cost recovery to a level insufficient to recover costs; or (iv) a change from current generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to another set of standards that does not recognize regulatory assets or liabilities, we would be required to record a charge against income in the amount of the remaining unamortized net regulatory assets. Such an action would materially reduce our shareholders’ equity. We review these criteria to ensure that the continuing application of these principles is appropriate each reporting period. Based upon our most current evaluation of the various factors that are expected to impact future cost recovery, we believe that our regulatory assets are probable of recovery. Equipment failures and other events beyond our control may cause extended or unplanned plant outages, which may adversely impact our consolidated financial results. The generation and transmission of electricity requires the use of expensive and complicated equipment, much of which is aged, and all of which requires significant ongoing maintenance. Although we have a maintenance program in place, our power plants and equipment are subject to extended or unplanned outages because of equipment failure, weather, transmission system disruption, operator error, contractor or subcontractor failure and other factors largely beyond our control. In such events, we must either produce replacement power for our other units, which may be less efficient or more expensive to operate, or purchase power from others at unpredictable and potentially higher costs in order to meet our sales obligations. Such events could also limit our ability to make sales to customers. Therefore, the occurrence of extended or unplanned outages could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents 