ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe operate in market and regulatory environments that involve significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, including "Item 1. Business" and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and in other documents we file with the SEC from time to time, the following factors may affect our results of operations, our cash flows and the value of our equity and debt securities. These factors may cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. The factors listed below are not intended to be an exhaustive discussion of all such risks, and the statements below must be read together with factors discussed elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC.Weather conditions, including mild and severe weather, may adversely impact our consolidated financial results.Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity. Our customers use electricity for heating in winter months and cooling in summer months. Because of air conditioning demand, typically we produce our highest revenues in the third quarter. Milder temperatures reduce demand for electricity and have a corresponding impact on our revenues. Unusually mild weather in the future could adversely affect our consolidated financial results.In addition, severe weather conditions can produce storms that can inflict extensive damage to our equipment and facilities, which can require us to incur additional operating and maintenance expense and additional capital expenditures. Our prices may not always be adjusted timely or adequately to reflect these higher costs. Additionally, because many of our power plants use water for cooling, persistent or severe drought conditions could result in limited power production. High water conditions can also impair planned deliveries of fuel to our plants.Our prices are subject to regulatory review and may not prove adequate to recover our costs and provide a fair return.We must obtain from state and federal regulators the authority to establish terms and prices for our services. The KCC and, for most of our wholesale customers, FERC, use a cost-of-service approach that takes into account operating expenses, fixed obligations and recovery of and return on capital investments. Using this approach, the KCC and FERC set prices at levels calculated to recover such costs and a permitted return on investment. Except for wholesale transactions for which the price is not so regulated, and except to the extent the KCC and FERC permit us to modify our prices through the application of formulae that track changes in certain of our costs, our prices generally remain fixed until changed following a rate review. Further, the adjustments may be modified, limited or eliminated by regulatory or legislative actions. We may apply to change our prices or intervening parties may request that our prices be reviewed for possible adjustment.Rate proceedings through which our prices and terms of service are determined typically involve numerous parties including electricity consumers, consumer advocates and governmental entities, some of whom take positions adverse to us. In addition, regulators' decisions may be appealed to the courts by us or other parties to the proceedings. These factors may lead to uncertainty and delays in implementing changes to our prices or terms of service. There can be no assurance that our regulators will find all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. A finding that costs have been imprudently incurred can lead to disallowance of recovery for those costs. Further, the prices approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for us to recover our costs and to provide for an adequate return on and of capital investments.We cannot predict the outcome of any rate review or the actions of our regulators. The outcome of rate proceedings, or delays in implementing price changes to reflect changes in our costs, could have a material affect on our consolidated financial results. 16Table of ContentsOur costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to greenhouse gas emissions, are significant, and the future costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations could adversely impact our operations and consolidated financial results.We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, the use of water, the handling, disposal and clean-up of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes, natural resources and health and safety. Compliance with these legal requirements, which change frequently and have tended to become more restrictive, requires us to commit significant capital and operating resources toward permitting, emission fees, environmental monitoring, installation and operation of air and water quality control equipment and purchases of air emission allowances and/or offsets. These laws and regulations oftentimes require a lengthy and complex process for obtaining licenses, permits and approvals from governmental agencies for new, existing or modified facilities. If we fail to comply with such laws, regulations and permits, or fail to obtain and maintain necessary permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators, and such fines or the cost of sanctions may not be recoverable in our prices.Costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations or fines or penalties resulting from non-compliance, if not recovered in our prices, could adversely impact our operations and/or consolidated financial results, especially if emission and/or discharge limits are tightened, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed, additional substances become regulated or the number and types of assets we operate increases. We cannot estimate our compliance costs or any possible fines or penalties with certainty, or the degree to which such costs might be recovered in our prices, due to our inability to predict the requirements and timing of implementation of environmental rules or regulations. See “Item 1. Business - Environmental Matters,” “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Executive Summary-Current Trends-Environmental Regulation” and Notes 3 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Rate Matters and Regulation - KCC Proceedings - Environmental Costs” and “Commitments and Contingencies - Environmental Matters,” respectively, for additional information.In addition, we combust large amounts of fossil fuels as we produce electricity. This results in significant emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) through the operation of our power plants. Federal legislation has been in the past, and may in the future be, introduced in Congress to regulate the emission of GHGs and numerous states and regions have adopted programs to stabilize or reduce GHG emissions. The EPA regulates, and intends to regulate further, GHGs under the Clean Air Act. In particular, in January 2014, the EPA re-proposed New Source Performance Standard that would limit CO2 emissions for new coal and natural gas fueled electric generating units. In June 2014, the EPA issued proposed CO2 emissions rules, called the Clean Power Plan, for existing, modified and reconstructed power plants. The EPA expects to finalize the Clean Power Plan by summer of 2015; states would be expected to propose by summer 2016 their plans to implement it, which could require us to make efficiency improvements to our existing facilities, among other things. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies-Environmental Matters” for additional information. We are currently evaluating the proposed rules, and believe these rules, if finalized in their current form, would likely have a material impact on our operations, future generation plants and/or results of operations.Further, in the course of operating our coal generation plants, we produce CCBs, including fly ash, gypsum and bottom ash, which we must handle, recycle, process or dispose of. We historically have recycled some of our ash production, principally by selling to the aggregate industry. In December 2014, the EPA issued a final rule that regulates CCBs as non-hazardous solid waste under Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The final rule will impact the manner in which we dispose of CCBs, and it may adversely impact our ability to recycle ash or require additional CCB handling, processing and storage equipment, or both. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies-Environmental Matters” for additional information. The impact of this rule on our operations and consolidated financial results could be material.We could be subject to penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Westar Energy and KGE, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by FERC. If we were found to be out of compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, which we might not be able to recover in the prices we charge our customers. This could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. 17Table of ContentsAdverse economic conditions could adversely impact our operations and consolidated financial results.Our operations are impacted by economic conditions. Adverse economic conditions including a prolonged recession or capital market disruptions may:•reduce demand for our service;•increase delinquencies or non-payment by customers;•adversely impact the financial condition of suppliers, which may in turn limit our access to inventory or capital equipment or increase our costs; and•increase deductibles and premiums and result in more restrictive policy terms under insurance policies regarding risks we typically insure against, or make insurance claims more difficult to collect.In addition, unexpectedly strong economic conditions can result in increased costs and shortages. Any of the aforementioned events, and others we may not be able to identify, could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial results.We are exposed to various risks associated with the ownership and operation of Wolf Creek, any of which could adversely impact our consolidated financial results.Through KGE's ownership interest in Wolf Creek, we are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, which include:•the risks associated with storing, handling and disposing of radioactive materials and the current lack of a long-term off-site disposal solution for radioactive materials;•limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations;•uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning Wolf Creek at the end of its life; and•costs of measures associated with public safety.The NRC has authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements enacted by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at Wolf Creek.An incident at Wolf Creek could have a material impact on our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, the non-compliance of other nuclear facilities operators with applicable regulations or the occurrence of a serious nuclear incident at other facilities anywhere in the world could result in increased regulation of the industry as a whole, which could in turn increase Wolf Creek's compliance costs and impact our consolidated financial results. Such events could also result in a shutdown of Wolf Creek. Significant decisions about capital investments are based on forecasts of long-term demand for energy incorporating assumptions about multiple, uncertain factors. Our actual experience may differ significantly from our assumptions, which may adversely impact our consolidated financial results.We attempt to forecast demand to determine the timing and adequacy of our energy and energy delivery resources. Long-term forecasts involve risks because they rely on assumptions we make concerning uncertain factors including weather, technological change, environmental and other regulatory requirements, economic conditions, social pressures and the responsiveness of customers' electricity demand to conservation measures and prices. Both actual future demand and our ability to satisfy such demand depend on these and other factors and may vary materially from our forecasts. If our actual experience varies significantly from our forecasts, our consolidated financial results may be adversely impacted.Our planned capital investment for the next few years is large in relation to our size, subjecting us to significant risks.Our anticipated capital expenditures for 2015 through 2017 are approximately $2.0 billion. In addition to risks discussed above associated with recovering capital investments through our prices, and risks associated with our reliance on the capital markets and short-term credit to fund those investments, our capital expenditure program poses risks, including, but not necessarily limited to:•shortages, disruption in the delivery and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials and labor;18Table of Contents•contractor or supplier non-performance;•delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals and other regulatory authorizations;•impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements;•adverse weather;•unforeseen engineering problems or changes in project design or scope;•environmental and geological conditions; and•unanticipated cost increases with respect to labor or materials, including basic commodities needed for our infrastructure such as steel, copper and aluminum.These and other factors, or any combination of them, could cause us to defer or limit our capital expenditure program and could adversely impact our consolidated financial results. Our ability to fund our capital expenditures and meet our working capital and liquidity needs may be limited by conditions in the bank and capital markets, by our credit ratings or the market price of Westar Energy's common stock. Further, capital market conditions can cause fluctuations in the values of assets set aside for employee benefit obligations and the Wolf Creek nuclear decommissioning trust (NDT) and may increase our funding requirements related to these obligations.To fund our capital expenditures and for working capital and liquidity, we rely on access to capital markets and to short-term credit. Disruption in capital markets, deterioration in the financial condition of the financial institutions on which we rely, any credit rating downgrade or any decrease in the market price of Westar Energy's common stock may make capital more difficult and costly for us to obtain, may restrict liquidity available to us, may require us to defer or limit capital investments or impact operations or may reduce the value of our financial assets. These could adversely impact our business and consolidated financial results, including our ability to pay dividends and to make investments or undertake programs necessary to meet regulatory mandates and customer demand.Further, we have significant future financial obligations with respect to employee benefit obligations and the Wolf Creek NDT. The value of the assets needed to meet those obligations are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our expectations for meeting our obligations. Additionally, inflation and changes in interest rates impact the value of future liabilities. In general, when interest rates decline, the value of future liabilities increase. While the KCC allows us to implement a regulatory accounting mechanism to track certain of our employee benefit plan expenses, this mechanism does not allow us to make automatic price adjustments. Only in future rate proceedings may we be allowed to adjust our prices to reflect changes in our funding requirements. Further, the tracking mechanism for these benefit plan expenses is part of our overall rate structure, and as such, it is subject to KCC review and may be modified, limited or eliminated in the future. If these assets are not managed successfully, our consolidated financial results and cash flows could be adversely impacted.Physical and cyber security breaches, criminal activity, terrorist attacks and other disruptions to our facilities or our information technology infrastructure could directly or indirectly interfere with our operations, could expose us or our customers or employees to a risk of loss and could expose us to liability or regulatory penalties or cause reputational damage and other harm to our business. We rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, supply chain functions, and the invoicing and collection of payments from our customers. We also use information technology systems to record, process and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Our technology networks and systems collect and store sensitive data including system operating information, proprietary business information belonging to us and third parties and personal information belonging to our customers and employees.Our information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance or other disruptions during software or hardware upgrades, telecommunication failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. These attacks or breaches could, among other things, result in the erasure of data or render our equipment unusable. The occurrence of any of these events could impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems; could impact our ability to conduct business in the ordinary course; could expose us, our customers or our employees to a risk of loss or misuse of information; and could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties against us, damage our reputation or otherwise harm our business. We cannot accurately assess the probability that a security breach may occur, despite the measures that we take to prevent such 19Table of Contentsa breach, and we are unable to quantify the potential impact of such an event. We can provide no assurance that we will identify and remedy all security or system vulnerabilities or that unauthorized access or error will be identified and remedied.Additionally, we cannot predict the impact that any future information technology or terrorist attack may have on the energy industry in general. Our facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of such attacks. The effects of such attacks could include disruption to our generation, transmission and distribution systems or to the electrical grid in general, and could increase the cost of insurance coverage or result in a decline in the U.S. economy.Equipment failures and other events beyond our control may cause extended or unplanned plant outages, which may adversely impact our consolidated financial results.The generation, distribution and transmission of electricity require the use of expensive and complicated equipment, much of which is aged, and all of which requires significant ongoing maintenance. Our power plants and equipment are subject to extended or unplanned outages because of equipment failure, weather, transmission system disruption, operator error, contractor or subcontractor failure and other factors beyond our control. In such events, we must either produce replacement power from our other plants, which may be less efficient or more expensive to operate, purchase power from others at unpredictable and potentially higher costs in order to meet our sales obligations, or suffer outages. Such events could also limit our ability to make sales to customers. Therefore, the occurrence of extended or unplanned outages could adversely affect our consolidated financial results.Our regulated business model may be threatened by technological advancements that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Significant technological advancements are taking place in the electric industry, including advancements related to self-generation and distributed energy technologies such as fuel cells, micro turbines, wind turbines and solar cells. Adoption of these technologies may increase because of advancements or government subsidies reducing the cost of generating electricity through these technologies to a level that is competitive with our current methods of generating electricity. There is also a perception that generating electricity through these technologies is more environmentally friendly than generating electricity with fossil fuels. Increased adoption of these technologies could reduce electricity demand and the pool of customers from whom fixed costs are recovered, resulting in under recovery of our fixed costs. Increased self-generation and the related use of net energy metering, which allows self-generating customers to receive bill credits for surplus power, could put upward price pressure on our remaining customers. If we were unable to adjust our prices to reflect reduced electricity demand and increased self-generation and net energy metering, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.20Table of Contents