Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Item 1. BUSINESS Katy Industries, Inc. (“Katy” or the “Company”) was organized as a Delaware corporation in 1967. Our principal business is the manufacturing and distribution of commercial cleaning products. We also manufacture and distribute storage products. The Company’s business units operate within a framework of policies and goals aligned under a corporate group. Katy’s corporate group is responsible for overall planning, sales management, financial management, human resource management, acquisitions, dispositions, and other related administrative matters. Operations Selected operating data for our only reporting unit, Maintenance Products Group, can be found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7. Information regarding foreign and domestic operations can be found in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. Set forth below is information about our reporting unit. The Maintenance Products Group’s principal business is the manufacturing and distribution of commercial cleaning products. We also manufacture and distribute storage products. Commercial cleaning products are sold primarily to janitorial/sanitary and foodservice distributors that supply end users such as restaurants, hotels, healthcare facilities and schools. Storage products are primarily sold through major home improvement and mass market retail outlets. Net sales and operating loss for the Maintenance Products Group during 2008 were $167.8 million and $7.5 million, respectively. The group accounted for all of the Company’s continuing revenues in 2008. Total assets for the group were $73.3 million at December 31, 2008. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of Katy included in Part II, Item 8 for a reconciliation of the operating amounts to the consolidated amounts. Continental Commercial Products, LLC (“CCP”) is the successor entity to Contico International, L.L.C. (“Contico”) and includes as divisions all the former business units of Contico (Continental, Contico, and Container), as well as the following business units: Disco, Glit, Wilen, CCP Canada and Gemtex. CCP is headquartered in Bridgeton, Missouri near St. Louis, has additional operations in California, Georgia and Canada, and was created mainly for the purpose of simplifying our business transactions and improving our customer relationships by allowing customers to order products from various CCP divisions on one purchase order. Our business units are: The Continental business unit is a plastics manufacturer and an importer and distributor of products for the commercial janitorial/sanitary maintenance and food service markets. Continental products include commercial waste receptacles, buckets, mop wringers, janitorial carts, and other products designed for commercial cleaning and food service. Continental products are sold under the following brand names: Continental®, Kleen Aire®, Huskeetm, SuperKan®, King Kan®, Unibody®, and Tilt-N-Wheel®. The Contico business unit is a plastics manufacturer and distributor of home storage products, sold primarily through major home improvement and mass market retail outlets. Contico products include plastic home storage units such as domestic storage containers, shelving and hard plastic gun cases and are sold under the 2 Table of Contents brand names Contico® and Tuffbin®. Contico® is a registered trademark used under license from Contico Europe Limited. The Container business unit is a plastics manufacturer and distributor of industrial storage drums and pails for commercial and industrial use. Products are sold under the Contico® and Contico Containertm brand names. The CCP Canada business unit is primarily a distributor of plastic products for the commercial and sanitary maintenance markets in Canada. The Disco business unit is a manufacturer and distributor of filtration, cleaning and specialty products sold to the restaurant/food service industry. Disco products include fryer filters, oil stabilizing powder, grill cleaning implements and other food service items and are sold under the Disco® name as well as BriteSorb®, and the Brillo® line of cleaning products. BriteSorb® is a registered trademark used under license from PQ Corporation, and Brillo® is a registered trademark used under license from Church & Dwight Company. The Gemtex business unit is a manufacturer and distributor of resin fiber disks and other coated abrasives for the original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”), automotive, industrial, and home improvement markets. The most prominent brand name under which the product is sold is Trim-Kut®. The Glit business unit is a manufacturer and distributor of non-woven abrasive products for commercial and industrial use and also supplies materials to various OEMs. Glit products include floor maintenance pads, hand pads, scouring pads, specialty abrasives for cleaning and finishing and roof ventilation products. These products are sold primarily in the commercial sanitary maintenance, food service and construction markets under the following brand names: Glit®, Kleenfast®, Glit/Microtron®, Fiber Naturals®, Big Boss II®, Blue Ice®, Brillo®, BAB-O®, Old Dutch® and Twistertm. Old Dutch® is a registered trademark used under license from Dial Brands, Inc. and BAB-O® is a registered trademark used under license from Fitzpatrick Bros., Inc. Twistertm is a trademark of HTC Industries, Inc. The Wilen business unit is an importer and distributor of professional cleaning products that include mops, brooms, brushes, and plastic cleaning accessories. Wilen products are sold primarily through commercial sanitary maintenance and food service markets, with some products sold through consumer retail outlets. Products are sold under the following brand names: Wilen®, Wax-o-matic® and Rototech®. We have restructured many of our operations in order to maintain what we believe is a low cost structure, which is essential for us to be competitive in the markets we serve. These restructuring efforts include consolidation of facilities, headcount reductions, and evaluation of sourcing strategies to determine the lowest cost method for obtaining finished product. Costs associated with these efforts include expenses for recording liabilities for non-cancelable leases at facilities that have been abandoned, severance and other employee termination and exit costs that may be incurred not only with consolidation of facilities, but potentially the complete shut down of certain manufacturing and distribution operations. We have incurred approximately $2.2 million in restructuring expenses since the beginning of 2006. Additional details regarding severance, restructuring and related charges can be found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. See Licenses, Patents and Trademarks below for further discussion regarding the trademarks used by Katy companies. Markets and Competition We market a variety of commercial cleaning products and supplies to the commercial janitorial/sanitary maintenance and foodservice markets. Sales and marketing of these products is handled through a combination of direct sales personnel, manufacturers’ sales representatives, and wholesale distributors. We do not have one single customer that comprises greater than ten percent of consolidated net sales. The commercial distribution channels for our commercial cleaning products are highly fragmented, resulting in a large number of small customers, mainly distributors of janitorial cleaning products. We also market certain of our products to the construction trade, and resin fiber disks and other abrasive disks to OEMs. The markets for these commercial products are highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on price and the ability to provide superior customer service in the form of complete and on-time product delivery. Other competitive factors include 3 Table of Contents brand recognition and product design, quality and performance. We compete for market share with a number of different competitors, depending upon the specific product. In large part, our competition is unique in each product line of the Maintenance Products Group. We believe that we have established long standing relationships with our major customers based on quality products and service, and our ability to offer a complete line of products. While each product line is marketed under a different brand name, they are sold as complementary products, with customers able to access all products through a single purchase order. We also continue to strive to be a low cost producer in this industry; however, our ability to remain a low cost producer in the industry is highly dependent on the price of our raw materials, primarily resin (see discussion below). Being a low cost producer is also dependent upon our ability to reduce and subsequently control our cost structure, which has benefited from our recent restructuring efforts. We market branded plastic home storage units to mass merchant retailers in the U.S. and Canada. Sales and marketing of these products is generally handled by direct sales personnel and external representative groups. The consumer distribution channels for these products, especially the in-home products, are highly concentrated, with several large mass merchant retailers representing a very significant portion of the customer base. We compete with a limited number of large companies that offer a broad array of products and many small companies with niche offerings. With few consumer storage products enjoying patent protection, the primary basis for competition is price. Therefore, efficient manufacturing and distribution capability is critical to success. Ultimately, our ability to remain competitive in these consumer markets is dependent upon our position as a low cost producer, and also upon our development of new and innovative products. Our ability to become a low cost producer in the industry is highly dependent on the price of our raw materials, primarily thermoplastic resin (see discussion below). Being a low cost producer is also dependent upon our ability to reduce and subsequently control our cost structure, which has benefited from our recent restructuring efforts. Our restructuring efforts have included consolidation of facilities and headcount reductions. Backlog Our aggregate backlog position for the Maintenance Products Group was $4.2 million and $6.3 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Substantially all of the orders in backlog as of December 31, 2008 are believed to be firm. Based on historical experience, substantially all orders are expected to be shipped during 2009. Raw Materials Our operations did not experience significant difficulties in obtaining raw materials, fuels, parts or supplies for their activities during the year ended December 31, 2008, but no prediction can be made as to possible future supply problems or production disruptions resulting from possible shortages. We are also subject to uncertainties involving labor relations issues at entities involved in our supply chain, both at suppliers and in the transportation and shipping area. Our Continental, Container and Contico business units (and some others to a lesser extent) use polyethylene, polypropylene and other thermoplastic resins as raw materials in a substantial portion of their plastic products. After a steady increase in 2007 and a very substantial increase in the first ten months of 2008, prices of plastic resins, such as polyethylene and polypropylene, fell dramatically at the end of 2008 as world demand fell and suppliers sold off excess inventories. Prices have increased slightly in the first quarter of 2009 as suppliers have reduced production. Management has observed that the prices of plastic resins are driven to an extent by prices for crude oil and natural gas, in addition to other factors specific to the supply and demand of the resins themselves. Prices for corrugated packaging material and other raw materials have also accelerated over the past few years. We have not employed an active hedging program related to our commodity price risk, but have employed other strategies for managing this risk, including contracting for a certain percentage of resin needs through supply agreements and opportunistic spot purchases. We were able to reduce the impact of some of these increases through supply contracts, opportunistic buying, vendor negotiations and other measures. In addition, some price increases were implemented when possible; however, in a climate of rising raw material costs (especially in the last three years), we experience difficulty in raising prices to shift these higher costs to our consumer customers for our plastic products. Our future earnings may be negatively impacted to the extent further increases in costs for raw materials cannot be recovered or offset through higher selling prices. We cannot predict the direction our raw material prices will take during 2009 and beyond. 4 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2008, we employed 680 people, of which 180 were members of various labor unions. Our labor relations are generally satisfactory and there have been no strikes in recent years. The next union contract set to expire, covering approximately 51 employees, will expire in January 2010. Regulatory and Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and the environment. Compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment has historically had a material effect on our capital expenditures and earnings. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. Licenses, Patents and Trademarks The success of our products historically has not depended largely on patent, trademark and license protection, but rather on the quality of our products, proprietary technology, contract performance, customer service and the technical competence and innovative ability of our personnel to develop and introduce products. However, we do rely to a certain extent on patent protection, trademarks and licensing arrangements in the marketing of certain products. Examples of key licensed and protected trademarks include Contico®; Continental®; Glit®, Microtron®, Brillo®, and Kleenfast® (Glit); Wilen®; and Trim-Kut® (Gemtex). Available Information We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Katy, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain documents that we file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. We maintain a website at http://www.katyindustries.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, all amendments to these reports as well as Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information and risk disclosures contained in this report, we encourage you to consider the risk factors discussed below in evaluating our business. We work to manage and mitigate risks proactively. Nevertheless, the following risk factors, some of which may be beyond our control, could materially impact our results of operations or cause future results to materially differ from current expectations. Please also see “Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7. Our stock price has been, and likely will continue to be, volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our stock price may fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: • announcements concerning us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in operating results; • introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products; • divestiture or acquisition of business groups or units; 5 Table of Contents • limited trading in our stock; • changes in product pricing policies; • changes in governmental regulations affecting us; and • changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies. These potential factors, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as armed hostilities, acts of terrorism, civil disturbances, recessions, international currency fluctuations, or tariffs and other trade barriers, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. If these broad market fluctuations continue, they may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the ticker symbol “KATY.” The OTC Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the New York Stock Exchange. Quotes for stocks included on the OTC Bulletin Board are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for the New York Stock Exchange. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the OTC Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain and holders of our common stock may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original offering price or at any price. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. We are dependent upon a continuous supply of raw materials from third party suppliers and would be harmed by a significant, prolonged disruption in supply. Our reliance on foreign suppliers and commodity markets to secure thermoplastic resins and other raw materials used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of raw materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations by suppliers. There is no assurance that we could obtain the required raw materials from other sources on as favorable terms. As a result, any significant delay in or disruption of the supply of our raw materials or commodities could have an adverse affect on our ability to meet our commitments to our customers, substantially increase our cost of materials, require product reformulation or require qualification of new suppliers, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We believe that our supply management practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices and, although we do not anticipate any loss of our supply sources, the unavailability of some raw materials, should it occur, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Price increases in raw materials could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The prices for certain raw materials used in our operations, specifically thermoplastic resin, have demonstrated volatility over the past few years. The volatility of resin prices is expected to continue and may be affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including domestic and international economic conditions, labor costs, the price and production levels of oil, competition, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. We attempt to reduce our exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including opportunistic buying of product in the spot market, entering into contracts with suppliers, and seeking substitute materials. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to offset increased raw material costs through price increases and there may be a delay from quarter to quarter between the timing of raw material cost increases and price increases on our products. If we are unable to offset increased raw material costs, our production costs may increase and our margins may decrease, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of certain portions of our finished goods due to greater reliance on third party suppliers could negatively impact our results of operations. Because we are dependent on third party suppliers for a certain portion of our finished goods, we must obtain sufficient quantities of quality finished goods from our suppliers at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. We have no long-term supply contracts with our key suppliers and our ability to maintain close, mutually beneficial relationships with our third party suppliers is important to the ongoing profitability of our business. Unfavorable fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of these finished goods products could negatively impact our ability to meet the demands of our customers and could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Our inability to realize the benefits of our recent facility consolidations and restructuring plans or any future acquisition integration plans could adversely affect our business and results of operations. During the past five years, we have consolidated several of our manufacturing, distribution and office facilities. The success of these consolidations and any future acquisitions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel, apply our internal control processes to these businesses, and cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter difficulties in integrating business units acquired in the future with our operations and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits we anticipate when we first entered into these organizational changes. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our inability to implement our strategy of continuously improving our productivity and streamlining our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. During the past five years, we have restructured many of our operations in order to maintain a low cost structure, which is essential for us to be competitive in the markets we serve. We must continuously improve our manufacturing efficiencies by the use of Lean Manufacturing and other methods in order to reduce our overhead structure. In addition, in the future we will need to develop additional efficiencies within the sourcing/purchasing and administration areas of our operations. The plans and programs we may implement in the future for the purpose of improving efficiencies may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected and may not have the positive profit-enhancing impact anticipated. In the event we are unable to continue to improve our productivity and streamline our operations, our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, over the past three years we identified and sold certain business assets that we considered non-core to our future operations for the purpose of improving our financial condition. There is no assurance that the sale of the assets will lead to increased profitability and our strategy of divestiture of non-core assets may not be successful in the long-term. An increase in interest rates may negatively impact our operating results. As of December 31, 2008 all of our outstanding debt was subject to variable interest rates. An increase in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The cost of servicing our debt on which we are required to make interest and principal payments may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, limit our ability to grow and compete, and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had $17.5 million of debt outstanding. Subject to limits contained in the agreements governing our outstanding debt, we may incur additional debt in the future. Our indebtedness places significant demands on our cash resources, which may: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our outstanding debt obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion or even all of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; 7 Table of Contents • increase the amount of interest expense that we will have to pay because our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which, if increased, will result in higher interest payments; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources than we do; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and • increase our vulnerability to existing and future adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on our debt, or to refinance such debt, will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. There can be no assurance that our business will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt or meet our other cash needs. Should we fail to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, sell assets at inopportune times or obtain additional financing to meet our debt obligations and other cash needs. We cannot assure you that any such refinancing, sale of assets or additional financing would be possible on terms and conditions, including but not limited to the interest rate, which we would find acceptable. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants in our debt agreements that could restrict our operating activities, and the failure to comply with such covenants could result in defaults that accelerate the payment under our debt. The agreements relating to our outstanding debt, including our Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Bank of America Credit Agreement”), contain a number of restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments; • limit the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create certain liens; • sell assets and if sold, use the proceeds at management’s discretion; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Our secured debt also contains other customary covenants, including, among others, provisions relating to the maintenance of the property securing the debt and restricting our ability to pledge assets or create other liens. In addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain at least $5.0 million in borrowing availability which represents our eligible collateral base less outstanding borrowings and letters of credit. The borrowing availability requirement contained in our credit facility may restrict our operations and our ability to fund capital expenditures, operations and business opportunities in a normal manner. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Bank of America Credit Agreement” for further discussion. The failure to comply with the covenants contained in our debt agreements could subject us to default remedies, including the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our existing indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all such covenants. If we were to breach any of our debt covenants and did not cure the breach within any applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, and, if the debt is secured, could immediately begin proceedings to take possession of the property securing the loan. Our debt arrangements contain cross-default provisions, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can place us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a covenant under 8 Table of Contents certain of our other debt obligations. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations and the market value of our shares. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our debt agreements, we could seek to obtain an amendment to such debt agreements and pursue increased liquidity through additional debt financing and/or the sale of assets. It is possible, however, we may not be able to obtain further amendments from the lender or secure additional debt financing or liquidity through the sale of assets on favorable terms or at all. Work stoppages or other labor issues at our facilities or those of our suppliers could adversely affect our operations. At December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 680 persons in our various businesses, of which approximately 26% were subject to collective bargaining or similar arrangements. As a result, we are subject to the risk of work stoppages and other labor-relations matters. These collective bargaining agreements expire at various times. The next union contract set to expire, covering approximately 51 employees, will expire in January 2010. If our union employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs. We believe our relationships with our union employees are good, but these relationships could deteriorate. Any failure by us to reach a new agreement upon expiration of such union contracts may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We are also subject to labor relations issues at entities involved in our supply chain, including both suppliers and those entities involved in transportation and shipping. If any of our suppliers experience a material work stoppage, that supplier may interrupt supply of our necessary production components. This could cause a delay or reduction in our production facilities relating to these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights adequately or assure that third parties will not claim proprietary rights infringement by us in the future. Part of our success depends upon our ability to use and protect proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which generally covers various aspects in the design and manufacture of our products and processes. We own and use tradenames and trademarks worldwide. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. The steps we take in this regard may not be adequate to prevent or deter challenges, reverse engineering or infringement or other violation of our intellectual property, and we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We are not aware of any assertions that our trademarks or tradenames infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, but we cannot assure that third parties will not claim infringement by us in the future. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new products in the future or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruption of our information technology and communications systems or our failure to adequately maintain our information technology and communications systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We extensively utilize computer and communications systems to operate our business and manage our internal operations including demand and supply planning and inventory control. Any interruption of this service from power loss, a telecommunications failure, the failure of our computer systems or a computer virus or other interruption caused by weather, natural disasters or any similar event could disrupt our operations and result in lost sales. We rely on our management information systems to operate our business and to track our operating results. Our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and our business needs 9 Table of Contents change. If we experience a significant system failure or if we are unable to modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, our ability to properly manage our business could be adversely affected. Our future performance is influenced by our ability to remain competitive. As discussed in “Business – Competition,” we operate in markets that are highly competitive and face substantial competition from numerous competitors in each of our product lines. Our competitive position in the markets in which we participate is, in part, subject to external factors. For example, supply and demand for certain of our products is driven by end-use markets and worldwide capacities which, in turn, impact demand for and pricing of our products. Many of our direct competitors are part of large multi-national companies and may have more resources than we do. Any increase in competition may result in lost market share or reduced prices, which could result in reduced gross profit margins. This may impair our ability to grow or even to maintain current levels of sales and earnings. If we are not as cost efficient as our competitors, or if our competitors are otherwise able to offer lower prices, we may lose customers or be forced to reduce prices, which could negatively impact our financial results. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. Changes in laws and government regulations affecting environmental compliance and income taxes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to many environmental and safety regulations with respect to our operating facilities. Most of our facilities are subject to extensive laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and the generation, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes or other materials. We may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages and criminal penalties or civil sanctions, or experience interruptions in our operations for actual or alleged violations or compliance requirements arising under environmental laws. Our operations could result in violations under environmental laws, including spills or other releases of hazardous substances to the environment. Given the nature of our business, violations of environmental laws may result in restrictions imposed on our operating activities or substantial fines, penalties, damages or other costs, including costs as a result of private litigation. In addition, we may incur significant expenditures to comply with existing or future environmental laws. Costs relating to environmental matters will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of promulgation and enforcement of specific standards that impose requirements on our operations. Costs beyond those currently anticipated may be required under existing and future environmental laws. At any point in time, a number of our tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with tax authorities may affect tax positions taken. Additionally, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the geographic mix or level of earnings. 10 Table of Contents We are subject to litigation that could adversely affect our operating results. From time to time we may be a party to lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that we devote substantial resources to our defense. Further, changes in government regulations both in the United States and Canada could have adverse effects on our business and subject us to additional regulatory actions. We are currently a party to various lawsuits. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” We are primarily self-insured with respect to health insurance and workers’ compensation. If our reserves for health insurance and workers’ compensation claims and other expenses are inadequate, we may incur additional charges if the actual costs of these claims exceed the amounts estimated. Because of high deductibles on our casualty and health insurance policies, we are effectively self-insured with respect to these coverages. Employee health claims are self-insured except to the extent of stop-loss coverage on large claims. In our financial statements, we maintain a reserve for health insurance and workers’ compensation claims using actuarial estimates from third-party consultants and historical data for payment patterns, cost trends and other relevant factors. We evaluate the accrual rates for our reserves regularly throughout the year and we have in the past made adjustments as needed. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the actuarial process, the amount reserved may differ from actual claim amounts and we may be required to further adjust our reserves in the future to reflect the actual cost of claims and related expenses. If the actual cost of such claims and related expenses exceeds the amounts estimated, we may be required to record additional charges for these claims and/or additional reserves may be required. Management turnover could cause our business, results of operations and financial condition to suffer. Our continued success in our business is based upon many factors, including but not limited to, the expansion of our customer base, the enhancement of the products we offer existing customers, aggressive sales and marketing efforts, effective cost containment and capital investment measures, and a strong strategic vision. Achievement of this success will require effective management both in headquarters and in business unit operations. During fiscal 2008, we had a high level of turnover in our management positions. Any inability to effectively manage our existing business and our future growth may harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 11 Table of Contents 