Item 1A: RISK FACTORS In addition to other information and risk disclosures contained in this Form 10-K, the risk factors discussed in this section should be considered in evaluating our business. We work to manage and mitigate risks proactively. Nevertheless, the following risk factors, some of which may be beyond our control, could materially impact our result of operations or cause future results to materially differ from current expectations. Please also see “Cautionary Statement Pursuant to Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995” on page 35. Our inability to achieve product price increases, especially as they relate to potentially higher raw material costs, may negatively impact our earnings. Costs for certain raw materials used in our operations, including thermoplastic resin, steel and other crude-oil based products remain at unprecedented high levels. Increasing costs for raw material supplies will increase our production costs and harm our margins and results of operations if we are unable to pass the higher production costs on to our customers in the form of price increases. Further, if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner, our operations could be interrupted. The loss of a significant customer or the financial weakness of a significant customer could negatively impact our results of operations. We have several large customers in the mass merchant/discount/home improvement retail markets. Two customers accounted for 30% of consolidated net sales. While no other customer accounted for more than 10% of our total net sales in 2005, we do have other significant customers. The loss of any of these customers, or a significant reduction in our sales to any of such customers, could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In addition, if any of such customers became insolvent or otherwise failed to pay its debts, it could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Increases in the cost of, or in some cases continuation of, the current price levels of plastic resins, copper, and other raw materials may negatively impact our earnings. Our reliance on foreign suppliers and commodity markets to secure raw materials used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of raw materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations by suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that our supply management practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Nonetheless, price increases or the unavailability of some raw materials, should they occur, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Disruption of our information technology and communications systems or our failure to adequately maintain our information technology and communications systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We extensively utilize computer and communications systems to operate our business and manage our internal operations including demand and supply planning and inventory control. Any interruption of this service from power loss, telecommunications failure, failure of our computer system or other interruption caused by weather, natural disasters or any similar event could disrupt our operations and result in lost sales. In addition, hackers and computer viruses have disrupted operations at many major companies. We may be vulnerable to similar acts of sabotage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We rely on our management information systems to operate our business and to track our operating results. Our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and our business needs change. If we experience a significant system failure or if we are unable to modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, our ability to properly run our business could be adversely affected. Our inability to execute our acquisition integration and consolidation of facilities plans could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We seek to grow through strategic acquisitions. In addition, we have consolidated several manufacturing, distribution and office facilities. The success of these acquisitions and consolidations will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel, apply our internal controls processes to these businesses, and cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter difficulties in integrating business units with our operations, and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we 8 Table of Contents may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into these organizational changes. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of certain portions of our finished goods due to greater reliance on third parties could negatively impact our results of operations. Because we are dependent on outside suppliers for a certain portion of our finished goods, we must obtain sufficient quantities of quality finished goods from our suppliers at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. We have no long-term supply contracts with our key suppliers. Unfavorable fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of these products could negatively affect our ability to meet demands of our customers and could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Labor issues, including union activities that require an increase in production costs or lead to a strike, thus impairing production and decreasing sales. We are also subject to labor relations issues at entities involved in our supply chain, including both suppliers and those involved in transportation and shipping. Katy’s relationships with its union employees could deteriorate. At December 31, 2005, the Company employed approximately 1,544 persons in its various businesses of which approximately 23% were subject to collective bargaining or similar arrangements. The next union contract set to expire, covering approximately 85 employees, will expire in January, 2007. If Katy’s union employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, the Company could experience a significant disruption of its operations or higher ongoing labor costs. Our future performance is influenced by our ability to remain competitive. As discussed in “Business – Competition”, we operate in markets that are highly competitive and face substantial competition in each of our product lines from numerous competitors. The Company’s competitive position in the markets in which it participates is, in part, subject to external factors. For example, supply and demand for certain of the Company’s products is driven by end-use markets and worldwide capacities which, in turn, impact demand for and pricing of the Company’s products. Many of the Company’s direct competitors are part of large multi-national companies and may have more resources than the company. Any increase in competition may result in lost market share or reduced prices, which could result in reduced gross profit margins. This may impair the ability to grow or even to maintain current levels of revenues and earnings. If we are not as cost efficient as our competitors, or if our competitors are otherwise able to offer lower prices, we may lose customers or be forced to reduce prices, which could negatively impact our financial results. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. Part of our success depends upon our ability to use and protect proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which generally covers various aspects in the design and manufacture of our products and processes. We own and use tradenames and trademarks worldwide. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. The steps we take in this regard may not be adequate to prevent or deter challenges, reverse engineering or infringement or other violation of our intellectual property, and we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We have a high amount of debt, and the cost of servicing that debt could adversely affect our ability to take actions or our liquidity or financial condition. We have a high amount of debt for which we are required to make interest and principal payments. As of December 31, 2005, we had $57.7 million of debt. Subject to the limits contained in some of the agreements governing our outstanding debt, we may incur additional debt in the future. Our level of debt places significant demands on our cash resources, which could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our outstanding debt obligations; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash for payments on our debt, reducing the amount of our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we compete; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources than we do; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; or increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and fund our operating costs, our liquidity may be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Our inability to meet covenants associated with the Bank of America Credit Agreement could result in acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. Our outstanding debt generally contains various restrictive covenants. These covenants include, among others, provisions restricting our ability to: incur additional debt; make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments; limit the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us; enter into transactions with affiliates; create certain liens; sell assets and if sold, use of proceeds; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Our secured debt also contains other customary covenants, including, among others, provisions: relating to the maintenance of the property securing the debt, and restricting our ability to pledge assets or create other liens. In addition, certain covenants in our bank facilities require us and our subsidiaries to maintain certain financial ratios. Any of the covenants described in this risk factor may restrict our operations and our ability to pursue potentially advantageous business opportunities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could also result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. We have not been able to meet certain affirmative covenants in our Bank of America Credit Agreement, which has resulted in six amendments temporarily relieving us from these obligations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Bank of America Credit Agreement” for further discussion of these amendments. If we cannot meet the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) continued listing requirement, the NYSE may delist our common stock, which could negatively affect the price of the common stock and your ability to sell the common stock. In the future, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, and NYSE rules, which require, among other things, market capitalization or stockholders’ equity of at least $75 million level over 30 consecutive trading days and its shareholders’ equity was less than $75 million. On October 11, 2005, we announced that we received notification from the NYSE that the Company was not in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standards. The Company’s plan to demonstrate how the Company intends to comply with the continued listing standards within 18 months of its receipt was accepted by the NYSE. If we are unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. Trading, if any, of our common stock would thereafter be conducted on another exchange or quotation system. As a consequence of any such delisting, a stockholder would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the prices of our common stock. Changes in significant laws and government regulations affecting environmental compliance and income taxes. Katy is subject to many environmental and safety regulations with respect to its operating facilities that may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities. Most of the Company’s facilities are subject to extensive laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants in the air and water and the generation, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes or other materials. Katy may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages and criminal penalties or civil sanctions, or experience interruptions in its operations for actual or alleged violations or compliance requirements arising under environmental laws. The Company’s operations could result in violations under environmental laws, including spills or other releases of hazardous substances to the environment. Given the nature of Katy’s business, violations of environmental laws may result in restrictions imposed on its operating activities or substantial fines, penalties, damages or other costs, including as a result of private litigation. In addition, the Company may incur significant expenditures to comply with existing or future environmental laws. Costs relating to environmental matters will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of promulgation and enforcement of specific standards that impose requirements on Katy’s operations. Costs beyond those currently anticipated may be required under existing and future environmental laws. At any point in time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with tax authorities may affect tax positions taken. Additionally, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the geographic mix or level of earnings. We are subject to litigation that could adversely affect our operating results. From time to time we may be a party to lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in 10 Table of Contents substantial costs and may require that we devote substantial resources to defend the Company. Further, changes in government regulations both in the United States and in the countries in which we operate could have adverse affects on our business and subject us to additional regulatory actions. Because we translate foreign currency from international sales into U.S. dollars and are required to make foreign currency payments, we may incur losses due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to fluctuations in the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar and various Asian currencies such as the Chinese Renminbi. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business will cause foreign currency translation gains and losses, which may cause fluctuations in our future operating results. We do not currently engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions to manage our foreign currency exposure. Item 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 11 Table of Contents 