Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Item 2. PROPERTIES Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION PART III Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES PART IV Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES SIGNATURES 2 PART I This annual report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. For purposes of these Acts, any statement that is not a statement of historical fact may be deemed a forward-looking statement. For example, statements containing the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "may," "projects," "will," "would," and similar expressions may be forward-looking statements. However, we caution investors not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements in this annual report because these statements speak only as of the date when made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. There are a number of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including without limitation, the factors set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "RISK FACTORS." ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Keane, Inc. is a leading provider of Information Technology ("IT") and Business Process Services ("BPS"). In business since 1965, our mission is to enable clients to achieve world-class performance through the transformation of their IT and business operations. We deliver our IT services through an integrated network of regional offices in North America, the United Kingdom ("UK") and Australia, and through Advanced Development Centers ("ADCs") in the United States ("U.S."), Canada, and India. This global delivery model enables us to provide our services to clients onsite, at our nearshore facilities in Canada, and through our offshore development centers in India. Our regional offices are supported by centralized Strategic Practices and Quality Assurance Groups. Our clients consist primarily of Global 2000 companies across several industries. We have specific expertise and depth of capability in a variety of verticals, including financial services, insurance, healthcare, and the public sector. We strive to build long-term relationships with our clients by improving their business and IT performance, reducing their costs, and increasing their organizational flexibility. We are a Massachusetts corporation headquartered in Boston. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "KEA." We maintain a Web site with the address www.keane.com. Our Web site includes links to our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct, and our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee charters, which are available in print to any shareholder upon request. We are not including the information contained in our Web site as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge, through our Web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file these materials with, or otherwise furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). We are registered as a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. Accordingly, we file or furnish with the SEC annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K as required by the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC. We refer to these reports as Periodic Reports. The public may read and copy any Periodic Reports or other materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet Web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other 3 information regarding issuers, such as Keane, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of this Web site is http://www.sec.gov. Our registered trademarks or service marks include: Application Lifecycle Optimization, EZ-Access, Keane, the Keane logo, Patcom and We Get IT Done. Other trademarks and service marks include: Application Development and Integration Services, Application Development and Management Outsourcing Services, Enterprise Application Integration, Keane InSight, and VistaKeane. All other trademarks, service marks, or tradenames referenced in this Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. SERVICES We seek to improve our clients' business performance by maximizing the effectiveness of their business and IT operations. We apply our rigorous processes and management disciplines to our client engagements, enabling clients to reduce costs and increase organizational flexibility and efficiency. We focus on three service offerings: •Outsourcing services, which include Application Outsourcing, Application Maintenance, Healthcare Solutions Maintenance, and Business Process Outsourcing; •Development and Integration services, which include Application Development & Integration ("AD&I"), and Healthcare Solutions Products; and •Other Services, which include IT Consulting, Business Consulting, and Staff Augmentation. We deliver our services using a global delivery model, from operations in the U.S., UK, Canada, Australia, and India. See Note 17 "SEGMENT INFORMATION" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our domestic and international revenues. We experience a moderate amount of seasonality. Our consulting revenue and profitability are affected by the number of workdays in a quarter. Typically our billable hours per employee are reduced in the second half of the fiscal year, especially during the fourth quarter, due to an increased number of holidays and vacation time taken by employees. Outsourcing Services Application Outsourcing. Our Application Outsourcing services help clients manage existing business systems more efficiently and more reliably, improving the performance of these applications while frequently reducing costs. In a typical Application Outsourcing engagement, we assume responsibility for managing a client's business applications with the goal of instituting operational efficiencies that enhance flexibility, increasing availability of client personnel resources, and achieving higher user satisfaction. We seek to obtain competitive advantages in the application outsourcing market by targeting our Global 2000 client base and generating measurable operational and financial benefits to our clients. We achieve these client benefits through the use of our world-class methodologies, continuous process improvement, and our global delivery model. Our global delivery model offers clients the flexibility and economic advantage of allocating work among a variety of delivery options, including onsite at a client's facility, nearshore in Halifax, Nova Scotia and Toronto, Ontario, and offshore at one of our four locations in India. This integrated, highly flexible mix of cost-effective onsite, nearshore, and offshore delivery is now a component of most of our new outsourcing engagements. The distribution of work across multiple locations is typically based on a client's cost, technology, and risk management requirements. Our project management approach ensures common methodologies and disciplines across locations, and provides a single point of accountability to the client. Our four ADCs in India, located in Hyderabad, Delhi, and Gurgaon, were independently evaluated at Level 5 on the Software Engineering Institute's ("SEI") Capability Maturity Model, ("CMMI") and 4 comply with ISO 9001: 2000 standards. Our ADC in Halifax, Nova Scotia, has also been independently evaluated at Level 5 on the SEI CMMI. The SEI CMM has five levels of process maturity, and many IT organizations typically operate at Level 1, the lowest level of maturity. Since 1997, we have used the SEI CMM as a standard for objectively measuring our success in improving our clients' application management environments. The SEI CMM has become the industry's standard method for evaluating the effectiveness of an IT environment and the process maturity of outsourcing vendors. We enter into large, long-term contracts for the provision of Application Outsourcing services. These client engagements usually span three to five years. Application Outsourcing projects typically supply us with contractually obligated recurring revenue and with an ability to cross-sell other solutions to those clients. We believe that our ability to consistently provide measurable business value for an existing client fosters profitable and long-term client relationships and positions us to win additional outsourcing engagements, as well as development and integration projects. Business Process Services. We provide BPS through Keane Worldzen, our majority owned subsidiary. Keane Worldzen specializes in providing BPS to clients with complex operational processes in the financial services, insurance, and healthcare industries, and to clients with back office processes in several industries. Keane Worldzen's deep expertise in process redesign and optimization is an important competitive differentiator. We believe that Keane Worldzen leverages this expertise in delivering both front-end business consulting and follow-on Business Process Outsourcing ("BPO") services. These services are designed to reduce the cost of processing and increase the efficiency of our clients' business transactions, enabling companies to focus on their more strategic activities, and avoid the overhead and management distraction of non-core back-office processes. Keane Worldzen provides these low-cost, high-value outsourcing services from operations in both the U.S. and India. Development and Integration Services AD&I. As application software becomes more complex, it requires sophisticated integration between front-end and back-end systems to enhance access to critical corporate data, enable process improvements, and improve client service. Many of our AD&I projects leverage "best of breed" technology platforms to support integrated development, Application Outsourcing and BPS solutions for our clients. These "best of breed" solutions are often industry-specific, and therefore leverage Keane's vertical expertise. Frequently, these solutions can be bundled into integrated "solution sets" that are repeatable and cost-effective delivery vehicles. AD&I services include custom development, Enterprise Resource Planning ("ERP") implementations, and other vertically aligned solutions. As a result of our significant expertise and experience, including our technical experience in leading edge and commercially accepted tools, we have become a top-tier provider of large, complex software development and integration projects for Global 2000 companies. We also provide AD&I services to the public sector, which includes agencies within the U.S. Federal Government, various states, and other local government entities. We believe that we are well positioned to bid on and win large-scale AD&I projects from both the commercial and public sector markets due to our core competencies in project management, integration, and global delivery. We believe that these competencies, together with our long-term relationships with Global 2000 companies, particularly with those clients for which we provide Application Outsourcing services, will provide a foundation for future growth through cross-selling of our complementary service offerings. Healthcare Solutions. Our Healthcare Solutions Division ("HSD") develops and markets a complete line of open-architecture financial management, patient care, clinical operations, enterprise information, long-term care, and practice management systems for healthcare organizations. The consulting, development, and integration of these systems is included in Development and Integration services. In addition, HSD provides maintenance of these software applications, which is included in Outsourcing Services. 5 HSD's products help healthcare organizations overcome the challenge of providing higher quality patient care while administering more efficient operations through the use of information technology. HSD's core healthcare solutions include EZ-Access, Keane InSight, and VistaKeane. EZ-Access is a browser-based family of healthcare information systems designed to improve access to patient data, reduce the occurrence of medical errors, and protect client investment in information technology. EZ-Access includes our widely installed Patcom Plus, a patient management system that is considered a market leader by industry analysts. Keane InSight is a comprehensive healthcare information system that provides immediate access to patient information using secure, browser-based technology. VistaKeane is a fully integrated financial and clinical solution for long-term and post-acute care providers. HSD's clients include integrated delivery networks, hospitals, long-term care facilities, and physician group practices. HSD currently provides proprietary software and services to more than 280 hospital-based clients and approximately 4,000 long-term care facilities throughout the U.S. Other Services IT Consulting. Our IT Consulting services include several offerings that help companies develop and implement their IT and business process improvement strategies. Many clients engage us to provide Project Management services to ensure consistency of quality and delivery over multiple projects within a client organization. Other IT Services also includes our Network Integration Planning, Strategic Information Planning, and Package Selection offerings. Business Consulting. Our Business Consulting services play an important role in our ability to help clients transform their IT and business operations for maximum business performance. Our Business Consulting services are designed to consider a broad view of business processes, organizational design, and technology architecture. Typically, Business Consulting engagements deliver specific, tactical recommendations for process improvement, often resulting in a follow-on engagement to deliver IT or business outsourcing services. We provide our Business Consulting services through both Keane and Keane Worldzen, our majority-owned BPS subsidiary. Staff Augmentation. Our Staff Augmentation service provides clients with a team of professionals with specialized technical skills to augment their in-house staffs. These professionals help clients develop or manage their applications or assist with short-term IT services requirements without adding to their fixed personnel costs. In many instances, we provide staff augmentation resources to clients who are also utilizing our outsourcing or AD&I services. In addition, we believe that staff augmentation services provide us with a foundation from which to establish new client relationships and ultimately expand our base of services by cross-selling our other offerings. Transportation Ticketing Solutions In 2005, we entered into the market of being a provider of automated fare collection systems for public transport authorities worldwide. The public transport market includes a range of services and systems solutions for bus, bus rapid transit, commuter rail, and heavy rail. The solutions and services within this market include, but are not limited to system design, equipment design, integration, testing, installation, maintenance, card management and distribution services, cash collection, application support and outsourcing and software design. The automated fare collection business is a niche market able to sustain only a relatively few number of suppliers. There is significant competition to win contracts due to the long-term expectancy of these systems and few suppliers; therefore, the bidding process is often long, with price competitiveness being a key differentiating factor. There is a growing trend for regional ticketing systems, usually built around a large metropolitan area transit agency and often including neighboring agencies that share a common regional smart card-based system. There is an emerging trend for other applications to be added to these regional systems to expand the utility of the smart card. This offers higher value and incentives to the end users 6 and improves the return on investment for the regional system operators. As a result, these regional systems have incorporated additional capabilities, including call center support, smart card production and distribution, financial clearing and settlement, and multi-application support to their smart card payment programs. The growing new market provides the opportunity to establish lasting relationships and grow revenues and profits over the long-term. We formed Keane Australia Micropayment Consortium Pty Ltd ("Kamco"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Keane, in order to deliver these services in Australia. On July 26, 2005, Kamco and the Public Transport Ticketing Body trading as Transport Ticketing Authority (the "TTA") of the State of Victoria, Australia, entered into a $494.0 million AUD, or approximately $367.0 million (based on the exchange rate of $.74285 AUD per $1.00), contract (the "Victoria TTA contract") to deliver a public transit ticketing system for the State of Victoria. The Victoria TTA contract has a term of approximately twelve years, including two years of development work, referred to as the Build phase, and ten years of operation and maintenance, referred to as the Operate phase. The Build phase represents the development and implementation of the comprehensive solution including hardware, card distribution and software. The Operate phase represents the maintenance of the software, hardware and comprehensive solution, refurbishments and replacements, hosting and management of the subcontractors. Keane has established and is leading a consortium of four transit and technology experts to design, build, implement, and maintain a micropayment smartcard technology system and related equipment for the TTA. Keane's consortium includes automatic fare collection specialists Ascom, ERG, and Giesecke & Devrient Australasia ("G&D"). See Note 2 "SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further detail on the terms of the Victoria TTA contract. With the entrance into the Transportation Ticketing Solution market in 2005 as a result of our winning the Victoria TTA contract, we have determined that the economic characteristics of the services and the distinct client base would require a separate reportable segment. See Note 17 "SEGMENT INFORMATION" in the notes to the accompanying financial statements for further discussion. STRATEGY Our goal is to be recognized as one of the world's premier business process and IT service providers by our clients, employees, and shareholders. We believe that we can achieve this goal by helping clients transform their IT and business operations through the consistent delivery of high-value consulting, development, and outsourcing services. Specifically, we believe that applications services and business process services are large and synergistic growth markets, and that a significant business trend is corporations leveraging Application Outsourcing, BPS, and global delivery to achieve meaningful cost reductions and business improvement. We believe that our depth of capability in each of these areas, along with our vertical expertise, strong client relationships and process management capabilities, position us well to capitalize on this market opportunity. In support of this evolution in market demand, we are migrating Keane's organizational structure from a geographic network of local branches to an integrated global matrix, which we have termed "One Keane." In the future we plan to align client relationships and business development activities by geographic region, but business solutions will be designed and delivered by integrated global Business Lines and Vertical Practices. We believe that this new organization better positions Keane to deliver high-value, transformational solutions that bundle vertical expertise, business process and applications services, intellectual property through a technology platform or a proprietary reference architecture, and cost effective global delivery. Moreover we expect it will increase Keane's flexibility and scalability, eliminate redundancy and excess costs, and improve the career growth opportunities that we offer our employees. 7 Each of Keane's six major strategic priorities for 2006 is aligned with the "One Keane" initiative: Achieve sustainable revenue and earnings growth in order to build per share value. Our objective is to achieve long-term revenue expansion by growing our Application Outsourcing, AD&I and BPS businesses, as well as by leveraging our strong position in less cyclical industries such as healthcare and in the public sector. We seek to increase our operating margins by improving billing rates and utilization, and increasingly leveraging lower-cost offshore resources in providing services to our clients. We strive to effectively manage our working capital, most notably Days Sales Outstanding ("DSO"), and capital spending in order to generate strong operating cash flow. We plan to use excess cash to complete attractive acquisitions and to continue to repurchase shares of our common stock from time-to-time. Rapidly grow our global delivery capabilities. Global delivery has become an important component of our clients' overall sourcing strategies. Use of nearshore and offshore delivery enables clients to access a large pool of cost-effective technical personnel, while enhancing productivity by taking advantage of time differences among Keane delivery centers around the world. As a result, global delivery capability is critical for success in today's IT services market. Over the past several years, we have significantly enhanced our global delivery capabilities, and now operate four offshore development centers in India and two nearshore development centers in Canada. During 2006, we expect to further invest in our India and Canada operations in order to support anticipated acceleration in client demand for lower cost delivery resources. Build scale and market share in growing Business Process Services market. We entered the BPS market in October 2003 through our majority investment in Keane Worldzen, which provides clients with high-value business consulting and business process outsourcing, including process optimization and transaction outsourcing. We believe that client demand for transformational business process outsourcing, often bundled with applications outsourcing, represents a significant future growth opportunity. As a result, in 2006, we plan to invest in additional capability and scale in our BPS operations, both through Keane Worldzen and potential additional investments. Build a flexible, adaptable, and cost-effective organization to anticipate client and marketplace demands. The dynamic nature of the IT and business process marketplace requires real-time market insight and the ability to rapidly respond to changing client demands. In 2006, as part of our One Keane initiative, a key Keane priority is to improve the flexibility of our internal organization and operating model, so that Keane's sales, delivery and support teams are able to respond and adapt more quickly to market demands. We also believe that the improved alignment and effectiveness of Keane's internal organization will provide our employees with increased opportunities for challenging work, career growth, and improved overall employee satisfaction, and improve Keane's standing as a choice employer. We expect that, over the long term, this organizational model will drive cost efficiencies, and will result in a more competitive go-to-market cost structure. Continue to build compelling value propositions for our clients, leveraging vertical expertise and superior technical solutions. We seek to deliver integrated solutions, incorporating innovative application of technology and solutions development expertise. In addition, we feel that deep industry knowledge is increasingly an important strategic differentiator as clients decide to outsource a broader portfolio of IT and business initiatives. Accordingly, in 2006 we plan to invest in building further expertise in the financial services, insurance, healthcare, and public sector verticals, and in developing integrated business solutions. We 8 believe this will enable Keane to go beyond simply delivering cost and performance improvements to our clients and allow us to deliver transformational business benefits. Enhance growth and market positioning through mergers and acquisitions. Our long-term growth strategy includes both a strong focus on organic expansion and enhanced growth through mergers and acquisitions ("M&A"). In 2003, 2004, and 2005, we acquired several companies that met specific strategic criteria, including enhancing Keane's capabilities and client relationships. In 2006, we will continue to proactively focus resources on identifying, evaluating, and, when appropriate, consummating M&A transactions that have the potential to create long term per share value. We proactively target applications services and business process outsourcing firms that provide scale and/or are additive to Keane's strategic positioning. COMPETITION The IT services market is highly competitive and driven by continual changes in client business requirements and advances in technology. Our competition varies by the type of service provided and by geographic markets. We compete with traditional players in the IT services industry, including large integrators (such as Accenture, Electronic Data Systems, Computer Sciences Corporation, IBM Global Services, and Perot Systems); offshore solution providers, including Wipro and Infosys; IT solutions providers (such as Sapient Corporation, BearingPoint, and Ciber); and management consulting firms (such as McKinsey and Booz Allen). Some of these competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. We believe that competition in the IT services industry is based on a firm's ability to deliver integrated solutions that best meet the needs of clients, provide competitive pricing, develop strong client relationships, generate recurring revenue, and offer flexible delivery options. We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors. CLIENTS Our clients consist primarily of Global 2000 organizations, government agencies, and healthcare organizations. These organizations generally have significant IT budgets and frequently depend on service providers for outsourcing services. In 2005, we derived our revenue from the following industry groups: Industry Percentage of Revenue Financial services 32.9 % Healthcare 19.0 Government 18.7 Manufacturing 12.6 Other 7.1 High Technology/Software 3.8 Retail/Consumer goods 3.8 Energy/Utilities 2.1 Our 10 largest clients, including various agencies of the Federal Government, accounted for approximately 30.9%, 35.9%, and 35.6% of our total revenues during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Our two largest clients during 2005 were the various agencies of the Federal Government and a leading insurance provider, with approximately 9.8% and 5.4% of our total revenues in 2005, respectively. Our two largest clients during 2004 and 2003 were the various agencies of the Federal Government and PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. ("PacifiCare"), with approximately 9 9.4% and 5.3% of our total revenues in 2004, respectively, and approximately 9.2% and 6.5% of our total revenues in 2003, respectively. A significant decline in revenue from the various agencies of the Federal Government and a leading insurance provider would have a material adverse effect on our total revenue. With the exception of the various agencies of the Federal Government, a leading insurance provider, and PacifiCare, no single client accounted for more than 4.0% of our total revenues during any of the three years ended on or before December 31, 2005. In accordance with industry practice, many of our orders are terminable by either the client or us on short notice. Moreover, any and all orders relating to the Federal Government may be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contract or subcontractors at the election of the Federal Government. We had orders at December 31, 2005 and 2004 of approximately $776.6 million and $600.4 million, respectively, representing backlog for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Because our clients can cancel or reduce the scope of their engagements on short notice, we do not believe that backlog is a reliable indication of future business. SALES, MARKETING, AND ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT We market our services and software products through our direct sales force, which is based close to our clients in regional field offices. Our account executives are vertically aligned, and are assigned to a limited number of accounts so they can develop an in-depth understanding of each client's individual needs and form strong client relationships. We believe that Keane's existing clients collectively represent a significant future growth opportunity. Accordingly, we have assigned certain of our account representatives solely to these clients; these account executives identify IT and business services needs and lead the development of solutions that meet these requirements. They also ensure that clients receive responsive service that achieves their objectives. In addition, we have identified a specialized team of account executives focused solely on identifying opportunities and leading solution development for companies that are not currently Keane clients. All account executives receive training in our sales processes and service offerings and are supported by enterprise knowledge management systems in order to efficiently share organizational learning. Account executives collaborate with our vertical practices, other regional offices, and our offshore team as needed to address specialized client requirements. We focus our marketing efforts on organizations with significant IT budgets and recurring software development and outsourcing needs. We maintain a corporate branding campaign focused on communicating our value proposition of reliably delivering application solutions with quantifiable business results. These branding efforts are actively executed through multiple channels. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2005, we had 9,586 total employees, including 8,208 business and technical professionals whose services are billable to clients. This includes a base of 2,626 employees in India, including our Keane Worldzen operations. We sometimes supplement our technical staff by utilizing subcontractors, which as of December 31, 2005, consisted of 646 full-time professionals. We believe our growth and success are dependent on the caliber of our people and will continue to dedicate significant resources to hiring, training and development, and career advancement programs. Our efforts in these areas are grounded in our core values, namely: respect for the individual, commitment to client success, achievement through teamwork, integrity, continuous improvement, and commitment to shareholder value. We strive to hire, promote, and recognize individuals and teams who embody these values. We have change in control and/or employment agreements with each executive officer. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. 10 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time-to-time. Our "One Keane" transformation initiative may not be successfully implemented, which could materially affect our results of operations. We have recently undertaken the early stages of a multi-faceted internal reorganization, which we call the "One Keane Transformation." Our goals in implementing the One Keane Transformation include: the replacement of our current regional operations structure with an overlapping structure including regional client relationship organizations, delivery organizations based on business lines (such as applications services and business transformation services) and vertical industry expertise (including financial and health care) and global shared services for sales and human resources, aimed at lowering cost. We expect that the One Keane Transformation will be an ongoing process over the next 12-24 months and will touch all areas of Keane, requiring significant internal resources, including significant attention from our management. If we are unable to successfully implement the One Keane Transformation, or a successful implementation that does not achieve our stated objectives, it could result in loss of employee morale, an inability to lower our delivery costs and compete in the global market, and could materially affect our results of operations. Our quarterly operating results have varied, and are likely to continue to vary significantly. This may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. Our gross margins vary based on a variety of factors including employee utilization rates and the number and type of services performed during a particular period. A variety of factors influence our revenue in a particular quarter, including: •general economic conditions, which may influence investment decisions or cause downsizing; •the number and requirements of client engagements; •employee utilization rates; •changes in the rates we can charge clients for services; •acquisitions; and •other factors, many of which are beyond our control. A significant portion of our expenses does not vary relative to revenue. As a result, if revenue in a particular quarter does not meet expectations, our operating results could be materially adversely affected, which in turn may have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, many of our engagements are terminable without client penalty. An unanticipated termination of a major project could result in an increase in underutilized employees and a decrease in revenue and profits. We continue to position ourselves to achieve increasing percentages of revenues and growth through outsourcing. If we are successful in obtaining new outsourcing contracts, we may experience increased pressure on our overall margins during the early stages of these contracts. This could result in higher concentrations of revenues and contributions to income from a smaller number of larger clients on customized outsourcing solutions. If we were to receive a higher concentration of our revenues from a smaller number of clients, our revenues could decrease significantly if one or more of these clients decreased their spending with us. Outsourcing contracts are generally long-term contracts that require additional staffing in the initial phases of the contract period, which often results in lower gross margins at the beginning of these contracts. If our clients are not satisfied with our services, we may have exposure to liabilities, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition as well as our ability to compete for future work. If we fail to meet our contractual obligations, we could be subject to legal liability, which could 11 adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The provisions we typically include in our contracts that are designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services and the applications we develop may not protect us or may not be enforceable under some circumstances or under the laws of some jurisdictions. It is possible, because of the nature of our business, that we will be sued in the future. In addition, although we maintain professional liability insurance, the policy limits may not be adequate to provide protection against all potential liabilities. Moreover, as a consulting firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high-quality services to retain and attract clients and employees. As a result, claims made against our work may damage our reputation, which in turn, could impact our ability to compete for new work and negatively impact our revenue and profitability. The termination of a contract by a significant client could reduce our revenue and profitability or adversely affect our financial condition. Our five largest clients, excluding the Federal Government, accounted for approximately 19.6% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005, although no individual client accounted for more than 5.4% of our total. The various agencies of the Federal Government represent our largest client, accounting for approximately 9.8% of the total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005. We strive to develop long-term relationships with our clients. Most individual client assignments are from three to twelve months; however, many of our client relationships have continued for many years. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis. Although they may be subject to penalty provisions, clients may generally cancel a contract at any time. Under many contracts, clients may reduce their use of our services under such contract without penalty. In addition, contracts with the Federal Government contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide the Federal Government with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. Among other things, the Federal Government, as well as other public sector clients, may terminate contracts with short notice, for convenience and may cancel multi-year contracts if funds become unavailable. When contracts are terminated, our revenue may decline and if we are unable to eliminate associated costs in a timely manner, our profitability may decline. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 18.7% of our revenue was from public sector clients, including U.S. Federal, state, and local governments and agencies. Often government spending programs are dependent upon the budgetary capability to support such programs. Most states must operate under a balanced budget. As a result of such budget and deficit considerations, our existing and future revenues and profitability could be adversely affected by reduced government IT spending. Our engagement with Melbourne, Victoria Transport Ticketing Authority, or Victoria TTA contract, exposes us to a number of different risks inherent in such long-term, large-scale, fixed-fee projects. We have been awarded a contract to perform services in relation to the development, operation and maintenance of a public transport ticketing system for the state of Victoria, Australia. This engagement will require significant management attention and financial resources, and could adversely affect our results of operations in a number of ways. These include: •initial costs could potentially result in lower operating margins for the project in the beginning stages; •difficulties and costs of staffing and managing complex projects and operations in a new geographic market place; •dependence on subcontractors and potential subcontractor non-performance; •at certain times, the TTA may terminate the Victoria TTA contract for convenience, subject to certain termination fees and for events of default, subject to Kamco's right to cure; •complexities in interpreting and delivering the broad range of functional and technical requirements required under the project contract; 12 •difficulties in working with multiple parties in defining these functional and technical requirements and achieving acceptance of deliverables; •project delays caused by reasons beyond our control; •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; •the additional liability we have undertaken both to guarantee performance of our subsidiary under the contract and the entrance into performance and security bonds under our credit facility. Unfavorable government audits could require us to refund payments we have received, to forego anticipated revenue, and could subject us to penalties and sanctions. The government agencies we contract with generally have the authority to audit and review our contracts with them. As part of that process, the government agency reviews our performance on the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. If the audit agency determines that we have improperly received reimbursement, we would be required to refund any such amount. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities by us or we otherwise determine that these activities have occurred, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or disqualification from doing business with the government. Any such unfavorable determination could adversely impact our ability to bid for new work. We have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, strategic acquisitions. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or assets may adversely affect our financial performance. In recent years, we have grown significantly through acquisitions. From January 1, 1999 through December 31, 2005, we completed 17 acquisitions. The aggregate merger and consideration costs of these acquisitions totaled approximately $429.2 million. Our future growth may be based in part on selected acquisitions. At any given time, we may be in various stages of considering acquisition opportunities. We may not be able to find and identify desirable acquisition targets or be successful in entering into a definitive agreement with any one target. In addition, even if we reach a definitive agreement with a target, we may not be able to complete any future acquisition. We typically anticipate that each acquisition will bring benefits, such as an increase in revenue. Prior to completing an acquisition, however, it is difficult to determine if these benefits will be realized. Accordingly, there is a risk that an acquired company may not achieve an increase in revenue or other benefits for us. In addition, an acquisition may result in unexpected costs, expenses, and liabilities. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions. We review our goodwill and identifiable assets for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 142 ("SFAS 142"), "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," and SFAS No. 144 ("SFAS 144"), "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. If the estimated future cash flows of the reporting units related to the underlying assets are not sufficient to support the carrying value of the associated underlying assets, we may be required to record impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Any material loss resulting from an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As of December 31, 2005, our goodwill totaled $314.5 million, customer lists totaled $41.1 million, and other intangibles assets totaled $6.2 million. The process of integrating acquired companies into our existing business might also result in unforeseen difficulties. Unforeseen operating difficulties may absorb significant management attention, which we may otherwise devote to our existing business. In addition, the process may require significant financial resources that we might otherwise allocate to other activities, including the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. 13 Finally, future acquisitions could result in our having to incur additional debt and/or contingent liabilities. We may also issue equity securities in connection with acquisitions, which could have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. Any of these possibilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and result of operations. We face significant competition for our services, and our failure to remain competitive could limit our ability to maintain existing clients or attract new clients. The market for our services is highly competitive. The technology for custom software services can change rapidly. The market is fragmented, and no company holds a dominant position. Consequently, our competition for client assignments and experienced personnel varies significantly from city to city and by the type of service provided. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater technical, financial, and marketing resources and greater name recognition in the markets they serve than we do. In addition, clients may elect to increase their internal information systems resources to satisfy their custom software development and integration needs. In the healthcare software systems market, we compete with some companies that are larger in the healthcare market and have greater financial resources than we do. We believe that significant competitive factors in the healthcare software systems market include size and demonstrated ability to provide service to targeted healthcare markets. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. In addition, competitive pressures may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We conduct business in the UK, Canada, India, and Australia, which exposes us to a number of difficulties inherent in international activities. As a result of our acquisition of a controlling interest in Keane Worldzen in October 2003 and the acquisition of SignalTree Solutions in March 2002, we now have four software development facilities in India. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 2,298 technical professionals in the region, including Keane Worldzen. India is currently experiencing conflicts with Pakistan over the disputed territory of Kashmir as well as clashes between different religious groups within the country. These conflicts, in addition to other unpredictable developments in the political, economic, and social conditions in India, could eliminate or reduce the availability of these development and professional services. If access to these services were to be unexpectedly eliminated or significantly reduced, our ability to meet development objectives important to our strategy to add offshore delivery capabilities to the services we provide would be hindered, and our business could be harmed. If we fail to manage our geographically-dispersed organization, we may fail to meet or exceed our financial objectives and our revenues may decline. We perform development activities in the U.S., Canada, India, and Australia, and have offices throughout the U.S., UK, Canada, India, and Australia. This geographic dispersion requires us to devote substantial management resources that locally based competitors do not need to devote to their operations. Our operations in the UK, Canada, India, and Australia are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations, foreign exchange restrictions, changes in taxation, and other difficulties in managing operations overseas. We may not be successful in managing our international operations. In addition, there has been political discussion and debate related to worldwide competitive sourcing, particularly from the United States to offshore locations. There is proposed federal and state legislation currently pending related to this issue. It is too early to determine whether or in what form this legislation will be adopted; however, future legislation, if enacted, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to re-deploy our professionals effectively if engagements are terminated unexpectedly, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our clients can cancel or reduce the scope of their engagements with us on short notice. If they do so, we may be unable to reassign our 14 professionals to new engagements without delay. The cancellation or reduction in scope of an engagement could, therefore, reduce the utilization rate of our professionals, which would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result of these and other factors, our past financial performance should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and we expect that our results of operations may fluctuate from period-to-period in the future. Our growth could be limited if we are unable to attract and retain personnel in the information technology and business consulting industries. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly-skilled technical and management personnel. The competition for such personnel is intense, including attracting and retaining qualified personnel in India. We may not succeed in attracting and retaining the personnel necessary to develop our business. If we do not, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be prohibited from repurchasing, and may not have the financial resources to repurchase, our 2.0% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2013 (our "Debentures") on the date for repurchase at the option of the holder or upon a designated event, as required by the indenture governing our Debentures, which could cause defaults under our senior revolving credit facility and any other indebtedness we may incur in the future. The Debenture holders have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Debentures on June 15, 2008. The Debenture holders may also require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Debentures upon a designated event, as defined in the indenture governing the Debentures. If the Debenture holders elect to require us to repurchase their Debentures on any of the above dates or if a designated event were to occur, we may not have enough funds to pay the repurchase price for all tendered Debentures. We are currently prohibited under our senior revolving credit facility from repurchasing any Debentures if a designated event were to occur. We may also be prohibited under any indebtedness we may incur in the future from purchasing any Debentures prior to their stated maturity. In these circumstances, we will be required to repay all of the outstanding principal of, and pay any accrued and unpaid interest on, such indebtedness or to obtain the requisite consents from the holders of any such indebtedness to permit the repurchase of the Debentures. If we are unable to repay all of such indebtedness or are unable to obtain the necessary consents, we will be unable to offer to repurchase the Debentures, which would constitute an event of default under the indenture for the Debentures, which itself could constitute a default under our senior revolving credit facility or under the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur. In addition, the events that constitute a designated event under the indenture for the Debentures are events of default under our senior revolving credit facility and may also be events of default under other indebtedness that we may incur in the future. We incurred indebtedness when we sold our Debentures. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The indebtedness created by the sale of our Debentures, and any future indebtedness, could adversely affect our business and our ability to make full payment on the Debentures. Our aggregate level of indebtedness increased in connection with the sale of our Debentures. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $189.6 million of outstanding indebtedness and had the ability to incur additional debt under our revolving credit facility. We may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. Any increase in our leverage could have significant negative consequences, including: •increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; •limiting our ability to make acquisitions; 15 •requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete; and •placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. Our ability to satisfy our future obligations, including debt service on our Debentures, depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business strategy. If we are unable to service our debt and fund our business, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional financing or equity capital, restructure or refinance our debt or sell assets. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or refinance existing debt or sell assets on terms acceptable to us or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 