ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS - ----------------------------------------------------------- This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent our expectations or beliefs concerning future events and are based on various assumptions and subject to a wide variety of risks and uncertainties. Although we believe that our expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot and do not give any assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. The reader is also directed to our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional factors that may impact our results of operations and financial condition. The words "believe", "expect", "will", "estimate", "project", "forecast", "planned", "should", "anticipate" and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Additionally, all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this Form 10-K are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees, as actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements. We specifically disclaim any obligation to publicly update, modify, retract or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. All forward-looking statements contained herein, the entire contents of our website, and all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Our forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions, and our operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any one of these factors or any combination of these factors could materially affect the results of our operations and cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Our financial condition and performance are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors described below. We may amend or supplement the risk factors from time to time by other reports that are filed with the SEC in the future. INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE APPAREL INDUSTRY COULD REDUCE OUR SALES AND PROFITABILITY. As an apparel company, we face competition on many fronts including the following: o establishing and maintaining favorable brand recognition; o developing products that appeal to consumers; o pricing products appropriately; and o obtaining access to and sufficient floor space in retail outlets. Competition in the apparel industry is intense and is dominated by a number of very large brands, many of which have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater manufacturing capacity and more extensive and established customer relationships than we do. The competitive responses encountered from these larger, more established apparel companies may be more aggressive and comprehensive than anticipated, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The aggressive and competitive nature of the apparel industry may result in lower prices for our products and decreased gross profit margins, either of which may materially adversely affect sales and profitability. 6 OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF WE FAIL TO CONTINUALLY ANTICIPATE FASHION TRENDS AND CUSTOMER TASTES. Customer tastes and fashion trends can change rapidly. We may not be able to anticipate, gauge or respond to these changes within a timely manner. If we misjudge the market for products or product groups or if we fail to identify and respond appropriately to changing consumer demands and fashion trends, we may be faced with unsold finished goods inventory, which could materially adversely affect expected operating results and decrease sales, gross margins and profitability. The apparel industry has relatively long lead times for the design and production of products. Consequently, we must in some cases commit to production in advance of orders based on forecasts of customer and consumer demand. If we fail to forecast demand accurately, we may under-produce or over-produce a product and encounter difficulty in filling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventory. Additionally, if we over-produce a product based on an aggressive forecast of demand, retailers may not be able to sell the product and cancel future orders or require retrospective price adjustments. These outcomes could have a material adverse effect on sales and brand image and seriously affect sales and profitability. OUR REVENUES AND PROFITS ARE SENSITIVE TO CONSUMER CONFIDENCE AND SPENDING PATTERNS. The apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations, recessions in the general economy or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits which could negatively impact our business overall, the carrying value of our tangible assets, intangible assets and goodwill and specifically sales, gross margins and profitability. The success of our operations depends on consumer spending. Consumer spending is impacted by a number of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment, wages, energy costs, etc.), business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit and tax rates in the general economy and in the international, regional and local markets where our products are sold. Any significant deterioration in general economic conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce the level of consumer spending and inhibit consumers' use of credit. In addition, war, terrorist activity or the threat of war and terrorist activity may adversely affect consumer spending, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. THE CONCENTRATION OF OUR CUSTOMERS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our twenty largest customers accounted for approximately 76% of sales in fiscal 2006, with the largest customer accounting for 12% of total fiscal 2006 sales. We do not have long-term contracts with any customers, and sales to customers generally occur on an order-by-order basis and are subject to certain rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. A decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us, or to change their manner of doing business with us, could substantially reduce revenues and materially adversely affect our profitability. CONSOLIDATION AND CHANGE IN THE RETAIL INDUSTRY MAY ELIMINATE EXISTING OR POTENTIAL CUSTOMERS. A number of apparel retailers have experienced significant changes and difficulties over the past several years, including consolidation of ownership, increased centralization of buying decisions, restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations. During past years, various apparel retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced financial problems that have increased the risk of extending credit to those retailers. Financial problems with respect to any of our customers could cause us to reduce or discontinue business with those customers or require us to assume more credit risk relating to those customers' receivables, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There has been and continues to be merger, acquisition and consolidation activity in the retail industry. Future consolidation could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers. A smaller market for our products could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that the larger customers, which result from mergers or consolidations, could decide to perform many of the services that we currently provide. If that were to occur, it could cause our business to suffer. 7 With increased consolidation in the retail industry, we are increasingly dependent upon key retailers whose bargaining strength and share of our business is growing. Accordingly, we face greater pressure from these customers to provide more favorable trade terms. We could be negatively affected by changes in the policies or negotiating positions of our customers. Our inability to develop satisfactory programs and systems to satisfy these customers could adversely affect operating results in any reporting period. LOSS OF KEY PERSONNEL COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS. Our continued success is dependent on the ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified management, administrative and sales personnel to support existing operations and future growth. Competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense and we compete for these individuals with other companies that in many cases have greater financial and other resources. The loss of the services of any members of senior management, or the inability to attract and retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. THE EXTENT OF OUR FOREIGN SOURCING AND MANUFACTURING MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. For fiscal 2006, approximately 93% of our products were manufactured outside the United States. As a result of the magnitude of our foreign sourcing and manufacturing, our business is subject to the following risks: o uncertainty caused by the elimination of import quotas in China. Such quotas have been replaced by safeguard provisions that continue to provide limits on importation of apparel on China. The operation and effects of these safeguard provisions are uncertain and could result in delays in imports and supplies. As a result, we will have to monitor and manage our sourcing of products and develop alternative sourcing plans, if necessary, to alleviate the impact of any anticipated impact of safeguard provisions; o political and economic instability in countries, including heightened terrorism and other security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional or more frequent inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods; o imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports, including quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements between the United States and foreign countries; o imposition of increased duties, taxes and other charges on imports; o significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar against foreign currencies; o restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries; o political instability, military conflict, or terrorism involving the United States, or any of the many countries where our products are manufactured, which could cause a delay in transportation, or an increase in transportation costs of raw materials or finished product; o disease epidemics and health related concerns, such as SARS, mad cow or hoof and mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; o reduced manufacturing flexibility because of geographic distance between our foreign manufacturers and us, increasing the risk that we may have to mark down unsold inventory as a result of misjudging the market for a foreign-made product; and o violations by foreign contractors of labor and wage standards and resulting adverse publicity. If these risks limit or prevent us from selling or manufacturing products in any significant international market, prevent us from acquiring products from foreign suppliers, or significantly increase the cost of our products, our operations could be seriously disrupted until alternative suppliers are found or alternative markets are developed, which could negatively impact our business. 8 THE SUCCESS OF OUR LICENSES DEPENDS ON THE VALUE OF THE LICENSED BRANDS. Many of our products are produced under license agreements with third parties. Similarly, we license some of our brand names to other companies. Our success depends on the value of the brands and trademarks that we license and sell. Brands that we license from third parties are integral to our business as is the implementation of our strategies for growing and expanding these brands and trademarks. We market some of our products under the names and brands of recognized designers. Our sales of these products could decline if any of those designer's images or reputations were to be negatively impacted. Additionally, we rely on continued good relationships with both licensees and licensors, of certain trademarks and brand names. Adverse actions by any of these third parties could damage the brand equity associated with these trademarks and brands, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. OUR PROFITABILITY AND EARNINGS COULD BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED IF SALES OF CERTAIN PRODUCTS ARE NOT SUFFICIENT TO OFFSET THE MINIMUM ROYALTY PAYMENTS WE MUST PAY WITH RESPECT TO THESE PRODUCTS. Many of the license agreements we have require significant minimum royalty payments. Our ability to generate sufficient sales and profitability to cover these minimum royalty requirements is not guaranteed and if sales of such products are not sufficient to generate these minimum payments, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION COULD SUFFER, IF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ARE NOT PROTECTED. We believe that our trademarks, patents, technologies and designs are of great value. From time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. Our licensing agreements with more recognized designers may cause us to be more susceptible to infringement of our intellectual property rights, as some of our brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and generally higher pricing thus creating additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. Imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. We cannot assure the reader that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we cannot assure the reader that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights or in similar marks or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these conflicts to our satisfaction. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE, AVAILABILITY AND QUALITY OF RAW MATERIALS COULD CAUSE DELAYS AND INCREASE COSTS. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used in our manufactured apparel could have a material adverse effect on cost of sales or our ability to meet customer demands. The prices for fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton. The price and availability of the raw materials and, in turn, the fabrics used in our apparel may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields, weather patterns and changes in oil prices. We may not be able to pass higher raw materials prices and related transportation costs on to our customers. OUR RELIANCE ON INDEPENDENT MANUFACTURERS COULD CAUSE DELAYS AND DAMAGE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS. We use independent manufacturers to assemble or produce a substantial portion of our products. We are dependent on the ability of these independent manufacturers to adequately finance the production of goods ordered and maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity. The use of independent manufacturers to produce finished goods and the resulting lack of direct control could subject us to difficulty in obtaining timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. We generally do not have long-term contracts with any independent manufacturers. Alternative manufacturers, if available, may not be able to provide us with products or services of a comparable quality, at an acceptable price or on a timely basis. There can be no assurance that there will not be a disruption in the supply of our products from independent manufacturers or, in the event of a disruption, that we would be able to substitute suitable alternative manufacturers in a timely manner. The failure of any independent manufacturer to perform or the loss of any independent manufacturer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Additionally, we require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. We also sometimes impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers to determine compliance. However, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. If one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of finished products could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. ACQUISITIONS HAVE ACCOUNTED FOR A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR PAST SALES GROWTH, AND WE MAY NOT FIND SUITABLE ACQUISITION CANDIDATES IN THE FUTURE. Acquisitions have accounted for a significant portion of our sales growth in the past, and we expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our sales growth through acquisitions in the future. Our sales growth may be adversely affected if we are unable to find suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices, we are not successful in integrating any acquired businesses in a timely manner, or such acquisitions do not achieve anticipated results. In addition, future acquisitions could use substantial portions of our available cash for all or a portion of the purchase price. We could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. ACQUISITIONS MAY CREATE TRANSITIONAL CHALLENGES. Our business strategy includes growth through strategic acquisitions. That strategy depends on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices and our ability to quickly resolve challenges associated with integrating these acquired businesses into our existing business. These challenges include: o integration of product lines, sales forces and manufacturing facilities; o decisions regarding divestitures, inventory write-offs and other charges; o employee turnover, including key management and creative personnel of the acquired businesses; o disruption in product cycles; o loss of sales momentum; o maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; o potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of management; o impairment of relationships with employees and customers, as a result of integrating new personnel; o inability to maintain relationships with customers of the acquired business; o failure to achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition; o expenses of the acquisition; and o potential unknown liabilities and unanticipated expenses associated with the acquired businesses. SECTION 203 OF THE DELAWARE GENERAL CORPORATION LAW AND CERTAIN PROVISIONS IN OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BY-LAWS MAY DELAY, DEFER OR PREVENT A CHANGE IN CONTROL THAT OUR STOCKHOLDERS MIGHT CONSIDER TO BE IN THEIR BEST INTERESTS. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits "business combinations" between a publicly-held Delaware corporation and an "interested stockholder" which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock during the three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. 10 Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: o a board of directors that is divided into two classes with staggered terms; o elimination of the right of our shareowners to act by written consent; o rules regarding how shareowners may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareowner meetings; o the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareowner approval; o a supermajority vote of shareholders for business combinations involving a holder of 25% or more of our outstanding common stock; o a supermajority vote of shareowners to remove directors; and o a supermajority vote of shareowners to amend these provisions. We also have a rights agreement permitting under certain circumstances each holder of common stock, other than potential acquirers, to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of a newly created series of our Series A Junior Preferred Stock at a purchase price of $100 or to acquire additional shares of our common stock 50% of the current market price. The rights are not exercisable or transferable until a person or group acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. The rights are not exercisable, if the acquisition is pursuant to a qualified offer for all outstanding shares. The agreement is reviewed by our independent directors at least every three years to consider whether the maintenance of the agreement continues to be in the best interests of our shareowners and us. We believe these provisions protect our shareowners from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. The provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareowners and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our shareowners and us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 11 