ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry, and may be unable to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. The worldwide staffing services market is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry. We compete in global, national, regional and local markets with full-service and specialized temporary staffing companies. While the majority of our competitors are significantly smaller than us, several competitors, including Adecco S.A., Manpower Inc., Randstad Holding N.V., Allegis Group, Robert Half International, Inc. and Spherion Corporation, have substantial marketing and financial resources. In particular, Adecco S.A., Manpower Inc., and Randstad Holding N.V. are considerably larger than we are and, thus have significantly more marketing and financial resources than we do. Price competition in the staffing industry is intense, particularly for the provision of office clerical and light industrial personnel. We expect that the level of competition will remain high, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. 6 Table of Contents There has been a significant increase in the number of customers consolidating their staffing services purchases with a single provider or small group of providers. The trend to consolidate purchases has in some cases made it more difficult for us to obtain or retain customers. We also face the risk that our current or prospective customers may decide to provide similar services internally. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future. Our business is significantly affected by fluctuations in general economic conditions. Demand for staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and employment in the United States and the other countries in which we operate. When economic activity increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. As economic activity slows, however, many companies reduce their use of temporary employees before laying off full-time employees. We may also experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of economic downturn. A substantial portion of our revenues and earnings are generated by our business operations in the United States. Any significant economic downturn in the United States or certain other countries in which we operate has a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2009, the already-weak economic conditions and employment trends present at the start of the year, continued to worsen as the year progressed. The weakened global economy significantly affected our earnings performance in 2009. We cannot predict when the global economy will begin to recover or when and to what extent conditions affecting the temporary staffing industry will improve. We also cannot ensure that the actions we have taken or may take in the future in response to these challenges will be successful or that our business, financial condition or results of operations will not continue to be adversely impacted by these conditions. Our loss of major customers or the deterioration of their financial condition or prospects could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business strategy is increasingly focused on serving large corporate customers through high volume global service agreements. While our strategy is intended to enable us to increase our revenues and earnings from our major corporate customers, the strategy also exposes us to increased risks arising from the possible loss of major customer accounts. In addition, some of our customers are in industries, such as the automotive and manufacturing industries, that have experienced adverse business and financial conditions in recent years. The deterioration of the financial condition or business prospects of these customers could reduce their need for temporary employment services, and result in a significant decrease in the revenues and earnings we derive from these customers. Our customer contracts contain termination provisions that could decrease our future revenues and earnings. Most of our customer contracts can be terminated by the customer on short notice without penalty. Our customers are, therefore, not contractually obligated to continue to do business with us in the future. This creates uncertainty with respect to the revenues and earnings we may recognize with respect to our customer contracts. We depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified temporary personnel (employed directly by us or through a third-party supplier). We depend on our ability to attract qualified temporary personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our customers. We must continually evaluate our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs. Competition for individuals with proven professional skills is intense, and demand for these individuals is expected to remain strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available in sufficient numbers and on terms of employment acceptable to us. Our success is substantially dependent on our ability to recruit and retain qualified temporary personnel. 7 Table of Contents We may be exposed to employment-related claims and losses, including class action lawsuits, that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Temporary staffing services providers employ and assign personnel in the workplaces of other businesses. The risks of these activities include possible claims relating to: • discrimination and harassment; • wrongful termination or denial of employment; • violations of employment rights related to employment screening or privacy issues; • classification of employees including independent contractors; • employment of illegal aliens; • violations of wage and hour requirements; • retroactive entitlement to employee benefits; and • errors and omissions by our temporary employees, particularly for the actions of professionals such as attorneys, accountants and scientists. We are also subject to potential risks relating to misuse of customer proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, damage to customer facilities due to negligence of temporary employees, criminal activity and other similar claims. We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems. In addition, these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive. In the U.S. and certain other countries in which we operate, new employment and labor laws and regulations have been proposed or adopted that may increase the potential exposure of employers to employment-related claims and litigation. There can be no assurance that the corporate policies we have in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks will be effective or that we will not experience losses as a result of these risks. There can also be no assurance that the insurance policies we have purchased to insure against certain risks will be adequate or that insurance coverage will remain available on reasonable terms or be sufficient in amount or scope of coverage. Unexpected changes in claim trends on our workers’ compensation and benefit plans may negatively impact our financial condition. We self-insure, or otherwise bear financial responsibility for, a significant portion of expected losses under our workers’ compensation program and medical benefits claims. Unexpected changes in claim trends, including the severity and frequency of claims, actuarial estimates and medical cost inflation could result in costs that are significantly different than initially reported. If future claims-related liabilities increase due to unforeseen circumstances, our costs could increase significantly. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs as a result of any changes in claims-related liabilities. Failure to maintain specified financial covenants in our bank credit facilities could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks, including access to capital markets. Our Bank Credit Facilities contain covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. In the past year, we did not meet certain of the covenant requirements, received temporary waivers of those requirements and subsequently renegotiated our Bank Credit Facilities. Our ability to continue to meet these financial covenants, particularly with respect to EBITDA coverage (see Debt Note 8 in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements), may not be assured. If we default under any of these requirements, the lenders could declare all outstanding borrowings, accrued interest and fees to be due and payable or significantly increase the cost of the facility. In these circumstances, there can be no assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance this indebtedness at favorable rates or at all. 8 Table of Contents Damage to our key data centers could affect our ability to sustain critical business applications. Many business processes critical to the Company’s continued operation are housed in the Company’s data center situated within the corporate headquarters complex as well as regional data centers in Asia-Pacific and Europe. Those processes include, but are not limited to, payroll, customer reporting and order management. While we have taken steps to protect the Company’s operations, the loss of a data center would create a substantial risk of business interruption. Our investment in the PeopleSoft payroll, billing and accounts receivable project may not yield its intended results. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we commenced the PeopleSoft project to replace our payroll, billing and accounts receivable information systems in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom and Ireland. To date we have several modules in production including accounts receivable and payroll in Canada and payroll and billing in the United Kingdom and Ireland. We are delaying implementation of the remaining components, including payroll and billing in the United States and billing in Canada, until at least 2011 and do not have an estimate of the cost for completion. There is a risk that if the remaining modules are not completed or the cost of completion is prohibitive, an impairment charge relating to all or a portion of the $6.2 million capitalized cost of the in-process modules could be required. We are highly dependent on our senior management and the continued performance and productivity of our local management and field personnel. We are highly dependent on the continued efforts of the members of our senior management. We are also highly dependent on the performance and productivity of our local management and field personnel. The loss of any of the members of our senior management may cause a significant disruption in our business. In addition, the loss of any of our local managers or field personnel may jeopardize existing customer relationships with businesses that use our services based on relationships with these individuals. The loss of the services of members of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may restrict the types of employment services we are permitted to offer or result in additional or increased taxes, including payroll taxes, or other costs that reduce our revenues and earnings. The temporary employment industry is heavily regulated in many of the countries in which we operate. Changes in laws or government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services we are permitted to offer or the imposition of new or additional benefit, licensing or tax requirements that could reduce our revenues and earnings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs as a result of any changes in laws or government regulations. Any future changes in laws or government regulations may make it more difficult or expensive for us to provide staffing services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside of the United States and we are subject to risks relating to our international business activities, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We conduct our business in all major staffing markets throughout the world. Our operations outside the United States are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • varying economic and political conditions; • differences in cultures and business practices; • differences in tax laws and regulations; • differences in accounting and reporting requirements; • changing and, in some cases, complex or ambiguous laws and regulations; and • litigation and claims. 9 Table of Contents Our operations outside the United States are reported in the applicable local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Exchange rates for currencies of these countries may fluctuate in relation to the U.S. dollar and these fluctuations may have an adverse or favorable effect on our operating results when translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. Our controlling stockholder exercises voting control over our company and has the ability to elect or remove from office all of our directors. Terence E. Adderley, the Chairman of our board of directors, and certain trusts with respect to which he acts as trustee or co-trustee, control approximately 92.9% of the outstanding shares of Kelly Class B common stock, which is the only class of our common stock entitled to voting rights. Mr. Adderley is therefore able to exercise voting control with respect to all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election or removal from office of all of our directors. We are not subject to most of the listing standards that normally apply to companies whose shares are quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. Our Class A and Class B common stock are quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. Under the listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market, we are deemed to be a “controlled company” by virtue of the fact that Terence E. Adderley, the Chairman of our board of directors, and certain trusts of which he acts as trustee or co-trustee have voting power with respect to more than fifty percent of our outstanding voting stock. A controlled company is not required to have a majority of its board of directors comprised of independent directors. Director nominees are not required to be selected or recommended for the board’s selection by a majority of independent directors or a nominations committee comprised solely of independent directors, nor do the NASDAQ Global Market listing standards require a controlled company to certify the adoption of a formal written charter or board resolution, as applicable, addressing the nominations process. A controlled company is also exempt from NASDAQ Global Market’s requirements regarding the determination of officer compensation by a majority of independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. A controlled company is required to have an audit committee composed of at least three directors, who are independent as defined under the rules of both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Global Market further requires that all members of the audit committee have the ability to read and understand fundamental financial statements and that at least one member of the audit committee possess financial sophistication. The independent directors must also meet at least twice a year in meetings at which only they are present. We currently comply with certain of the listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market that do not apply to controlled companies. Our compliance is voluntary, however, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to comply with these standards in the future. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. For example, if a potential acquirer were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquirer would not be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors or act by written consent without a meeting. The acquirer would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to replace directors at any annual meeting, and would not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which would require the acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on the board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. Our board of directors also has the ability to issue additional shares of common stock that could significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits mergers and other business combination transactions involving 15 percent or greater stockholders of Delaware corporations unless certain board or stockholder approval requirements are satisfied. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquirer that it did not believe was in our strategic interests. If an acquirer is discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by these or other measures, our shareholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a favorable price. 10 Table of Contents The holders of shares of our Class A common stock are not entitled to voting rights. Under our certificate of incorporation, the holders of shares of our Class A common stock are not entitled to voting rights, except as otherwise required by Delaware law. As a result, Class A common stock holders do not have the right to vote for the election of directors or in connection with most other matters submitted for the vote of our stockholders. Our stock price may be subject to significant volatility and could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant volatility. We believe that many factors, including several which are beyond our control, have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. These include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements of new services by us or our competitors; • announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in general economic conditions; • actual or anticipated changes in laws and government regulations; • changes in industry trends or conditions; and • sales of significant amounts of our common stock or other securities in the market. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Further, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In such event, the price of our common stock may decline. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 