ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry and may be unable to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. The worldwide staffing services market is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry. We compete in global, national, regional and local markets with full-service and specialized temporary staffing and consulting companies. While the majority of our competitors are significantly smaller than us, several competitors, including Allegis Group, Adecco S.A., Randstad Holding N.V., ManpowerGroup Inc. and Robert Half International Inc., have substantial marketing and financial resources. In particular, Adecco S.A., Randstad Holding N.V. and ManpowerGroup Inc. are considerably larger than we are and, thus, have significantly more marketing and financial resources. Additionally, the emergence of on-line staffing platforms or other forms of disintermediation may pose a competitive threat to our services, which operate under a more traditional staffing business model. Price competition in the staffing industry is intense, particularly for the provision of office clerical and light industrial personnel. We expect that the level of competition will remain high, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. The number of customers consolidating their staffing services purchases with a single provider or small group of providers continues to increase which, in some cases, may make it more difficult for us to obtain or retain customers. We also face the risk that our current or prospective customers may decide to provide similar services internally. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future. Our business is significantly affected by fluctuations in general economic conditions. Demand for staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and employment in the United States and the other countries in which we operate. When economic activity increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. As economic activity slows, however, many companies reduce their use of temporary employees before laying off full-time employees. Significant swings in economic activity historically have had a disproportionate impact on staffing industry volumes. We may also experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of economic downturn. A substantial portion of our revenues and earnings are generated by our business operations in the United States. Any significant economic downturn in the United States or certain other countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not achieve the intended effects of our business strategy. As discussed in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our business strategy focuses on driving growth in higher margin specialties -- in Americas PT and also within our growing OCG segment. We plan to add resources and implement cost-efficient service delivery models to enable local teams to focus on profit-generating activities and relationships. We expect that revenue growth will lag these investments and, consequently, affect our profitability in the short-term. If we are not successful in executing our strategy, we may not achieve either our stated goal of double-digit revenue growth in those segments or the intended productivity improvements, therefore negatively impacting future profitability. We are highly dependent on our senior management and the continued performance and productivity of our field personnel. We are highly dependent on the continued efforts of the members of our senior management. We are also highly dependent on the performance and productivity of our field personnel. The loss of any of the members of our senior management may cause a significant disruption in our business. In addition, the loss of any of our field personnel may jeopardize existing customer relationships with businesses that use our services based on relationships with these individuals. 6 We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, including our brand, which is important to our success. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property including the value of our brands. Existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions may offer only limited protection. We rely upon a combination of internal controls, confidentiality and other contractual agreements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to ours. Further, the steps we take might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, which could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. If we fail to successfully develop new service offerings, we may be unable to retain current customers and gain new customers and our revenues would decline. The process of developing new service offerings requires accurate anticipation of customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends. This may require that we make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in service offerings that achieve customer acceptance and generate the revenues required to provide desired returns. If we fail to accurately anticipate and meet our customers’ needs through the development of new service offerings, our competitive position could be weakened and that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As we increasingly offer services outside the realm of traditional staffing, including business process outsourcing, we are exposed to additional risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business strategy focuses on growing our outsourcing and consulting business, including business process outsourcing, where we provide operational management of our customers’ non-core functions or departments. This could expose us to certain risks unique to that business, including product liability or product recalls. Although we have internal vetting processes to control such risks, there is no assurance that these processes will be effective. Additionally, while we maintain insurance in types and amounts we believe are appropriate in light of the aforementioned exposures, there can also be no assurance that such insurance policies will remain available on reasonable terms or be sufficient in amount or scope of coverage. Past and future acquisitions may not be successful. From time to time, we acquire and invest in companies throughout the world. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from its existing operations, the failure to retain key personnel or customers of an acquired business, the failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements, the potentially substantial transaction costs associated with acquisitions, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business and the inability to successfully integrate the business into our operations. Potential impairment losses could result if we overpay for an acquisition. There can be no assurance that any past or future acquired businesses will generate anticipated revenues or earnings. Investments in equity affiliates expose us to additional risks and uncertainties. We participate, or may participate in the future, in certain investments in equity affiliates, such as joint ventures or other equity investments with strategic partners. These arrangements expose us to a number of risks, including the risk that the management of the combined venture may not be able to fulfill their performance obligations under the management agreements or may be incapable of providing the required financial support. Additionally, improper, illegal or unethical actions by the venture management could have a negative impact on the reputation of the venture and our company. 7 A loss of major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business strategy is focused on serving large corporate customers through high volume global service agreements. While our strategy is intended to enable us to increase our revenues and earnings from our major corporate customers, the strategy also exposes us to increased risks arising from the possible loss of major customer accounts. The deterioration of the financial condition or business prospects of these customers could reduce their need for temporary employment services and result in a significant decrease in the revenues and earnings we derive from these customers. Since receipts from customers generally lag payroll to temporary employees, the bankruptcy of a major customer could have a material adverse impact on our ability to meet our working capital requirements. Additionally, most of our customer contracts can be terminated by the customer on short notice without penalty. Further, as a result of alleged contractual noncompliance, we could be excluded from participating in government contracts. This creates uncertainty with respect to the revenues and earnings we may recognize with respect to our customer contracts. We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside of the United States and we are subject to risks relating to our international business activities, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates and numerous legal and regulatory requirements. We conduct our business in most major staffing markets throughout the world. Our operations outside the United States are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: ● fluctuations in currency exchange rates; ● varying economic and political conditions; ● differences in cultures and business practices; ● differences in employment and tax laws and regulations; ● differences in accounting and reporting requirements; ● differences in labor and market conditions; ● changing and, in some cases, complex or ambiguous laws and regulations; ● violations of U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption laws; and ● litigation and claims. Our operations outside the United States are reported in the applicable local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Exchange rates for currencies of these countries may fluctuate in relation to the U.S. dollar and these fluctuations may have an adverse or favorable effect on our operating results when translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified temporary personnel (employed directly by us or through third-party suppliers). We depend on our ability to attract qualified temporary personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our customers. We must continually evaluate our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs. Competition for individuals with proven professional skills is intense, and demand for these individuals is expected to remain strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available in sufficient numbers and on terms of employment acceptable to us and our customers. Our success is substantially dependent on our ability to recruit and retain qualified temporary personnel. 8 We may be exposed to employment-related claims and losses, including class action lawsuits and collective actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We employ and assign personnel in the workplaces of other businesses. The risks of these activities include possible claims relating to: ● discrimination and harassment; ● wrongful termination or retaliation; ● violations of employment rights related to employment screening or privacy issues; ● apportionment between us and our customer of legal obligations as an employer of temporary employees; ● classification of workers as employees or independent contractors; ● employment of unauthorized workers; ● violations of wage and hour requirements; ● retroactive entitlement to employee benefits; ● failure to comply with leave policy requirements; and ● errors and omissions by our temporary employees, particularly for the actions of professionals such as attorneys, accountants and scientists. We are also subject to potential risks relating to misuse of customer proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, death or injury to our employees, damage to customer facilities due to negligence of temporary employees, criminal activity and other similar occurrences. We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these risks. In addition, these occurrences may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive. In the U.S. and certain other countries in which we operate, new employment and labor laws and regulations have been proposed or adopted that may increase the potential exposure of employers to employment-related claims and litigation. Such laws and regulations are also arising with increasing frequency at the state and local level in the U.S. There can be no assurance that the corporate policies and practices we have in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks will be effective or that we will not experience losses as a result of these risks. Although we maintain insurance in types and amounts we believe are appropriate in light of the aforementioned exposures, there can also be no assurance that such insurance policies will remain available on reasonable terms or be sufficient in amount or scope of coverage. Additionally, should we have a material inability to produce records as a consequence of litigation or a government investigation, the cost or consequences of such matters could become much greater. Improper disclosure of sensitive or private information could result in liability and damage our reputation. Our business involves the use, storage and transmission of information about full-time and temporary employees. Additionally, our employees may have access or exposure to customer data and systems, the misuse of which could result in legal liability. Cyber-attacks, including attacks motivated by grievances against our industry and against us in particular, may disable or damage our systems. We are dependent on, and are ultimately responsible for, the security provisions of vendors who have custodial control of our data. We have established policies and procedures to help protect the security and privacy of this information. It is possible that our security controls over personal and other data and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information. Such disclosure or damage to our systems could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently evolving rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability, additional compliance costs, missed business opportunities or damage to our reputation in the marketplace. 9 Damage to our key data centers could affect our ability to sustain critical business applications. Many business processes critical to our continued operation are housed in our data center situated within the corporate headquarters complex as well as regional data centers in Asia-Pacific and Europe. Those processes include, but are not limited to, payroll, customer reporting and order management. While we have taken steps to protect these operations and have developed remote recovery capabilities, the loss of a data center would create a substantial risk of business interruption. Our information technology projects may not yield their intended results. At the present time, we have a number of information technology projects in process or in the planning stages, including improvements to applicant onboarding and tracking systems, order management, billing and customer data analytics. Although the technology is intended to increase productivity and operating efficiencies, these projects may not yield their intended results. Any delays in completing, or an inability to successfully complete, these technology initiatives or an inability to achieve the anticipated efficiencies could adversely affect our operations, liquidity and financial condition. Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting. Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting. If our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could have a negative effect on our stock price. Impairment charges relating to our goodwill and long-lived assets could adversely affect our results of operations. We regularly monitor our goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment indicators. In conducting our goodwill impairment testing, we compare the fair value of each of our reporting units to the related net book value. In conducting our impairment analysis of long-lived assets, we compare the undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the long-lived assets to the related net book values. Changes in economic or operating conditions impacting our estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our goodwill or long-lived assets. In the event that we determine that our goodwill or long-lived assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant non-cash charge to earnings that could adversely affect our results of operations. Unexpected changes in claim trends on our workers’ compensation, disability and medical benefit plans may negatively impact our financial condition. We self-insure, or otherwise bear financial responsibility for, a significant portion of expected losses under our workers’ compensation program, disability and medical benefits claims. Unexpected changes in claim trends, including the severity and frequency of claims, actuarial estimates and medical cost inflation, could result in costs that are significantly different than initially reported. If future claims-related liabilities increase due to unforeseen circumstances, or if we must make unfavorable adjustments to accruals for prior accident years, our costs could increase significantly. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs as a result of any changes in claims-related liabilities. 10 The net financial impact of recent U.S. healthcare legislation on our results of operations could be significant. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Acts”) were signed into U.S. law. The Acts represent comprehensive U.S. healthcare reform legislation that, in addition to other provisions, will subject us to potential penalties unless we offer to our employees minimum essential healthcare coverage that is affordable and provides minimum value. In order to comply with the Acts, we intend to begin offering health care coverage in 2015 to all temporary employees eligible for coverage under the Acts. In 2014, we will continue to incur costs related to implementing the Acts in advance of future pricing designed to pass related costs on to our customers. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase pricing to our customers in a sufficient amount to cover all the increased costs, or that they will be recovered in the period in which costs are incurred, and the net financial impact on our results of operations could be significant. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may restrict the types of employment services we are permitted to offer or result in additional or increased taxes, including payroll taxes or other costs that reduce our revenues and earnings. The temporary employment industry is heavily regulated in many of the countries in which we operate. Changes in laws or government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services we are permitted to offer or the imposition of new or additional benefit, licensing or tax requirements that could reduce our revenues and earnings. In particular, we are subject to state unemployment taxes in the U.S., which typically increase during periods of increased levels of unemployment. We also receive benefits, such as the work opportunity income tax credit in the U.S., that regularly expire and may not be reinstated. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to fully cover increased costs as a result of any changes in laws or government regulations. Any future changes in laws or government regulations, or interpretations thereof, may make it more difficult or expensive for us to provide staffing services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have additional tax or unclaimed property liabilities that exceed our estimates. We are subject to federal taxes and a multitude of state and local taxes in the United States and taxes in foreign jurisdictions. We are also subject to unclaimed or abandoned property (escheat) laws which require us to remit to certain U.S. government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as payroll checks issued to temporary employees. The demographics of our work force and the visibility of our industry may make it more likely we become a target of government investigations, and we are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax and unclaimed property estimates are reasonable, the final determination of audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could materially harm our business. Failure to maintain specified financial covenants in our bank credit facilities, or credit market events beyond our control, could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks, including risk of loss of access to capital markets. Our bank credit facilities contain covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. During 2013, we met all of the covenant requirements. Our ability to continue to meet these financial covenants, particularly with respect to interest coverage (see Debt note in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements), may not be assured. If we default under this or any other of these requirements, the lenders could declare all outstanding borrowings, accrued interest and fees to be due and payable or significantly increase the cost of the facility. In these circumstances, there can be no assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance this indebtedness at favorable rates or at all. Events beyond our control could result in the failure of one or more of our banks, reducing our access to liquidity and potentially resulting in reduced financial and operating flexibility. If broader credit markets were to experience dislocation, our potential access to other funding sources would be limited. 11 The lenders that participate in our revolving credit facility and our securitization facility may be unwilling or unable to honor their obligations to provide credit under these committed credit facilities. Aside from cash on hand, our revolving credit facility and our securitization facility are our main sources of liquidity. The revolving credit facility is financed by a syndicate of banks. Each bank in the syndicate is responsible for providing a portion of the loans under the facility and is contractually obligated to provide these loans as long as we meet certain terms and conditions. It is possible that one or more of the lenders in the bank group could fail to satisfy its obligations. In this case, our agreements allow for other participants to assume these obligations; however, it is possible that this may not happen. We may not be able to find other funding sources to make up the lost capacity, and any sources found could carry higher interest expense that could affect our financial performance. Our controlling stockholder exercises voting control over our company and has the ability to elect or remove from office all of our directors. Terence E. Adderley, the Executive Chairman of our board of directors, and certain trusts with respect to which he acts as trustee or co-trustee, control approximately 93% of the outstanding shares of Kelly Class B common stock, which is the only class of our common stock entitled to voting rights. Mr. Adderley is therefore able to exercise voting control with respect to all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election or removal from office of all members of the Board of Directors. We are not subject to most of the listing standards that normally apply to companies whose shares are quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. Our Class A and Class B common stock are quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. Under the listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market, we are deemed to be a “controlled company” by virtue of the fact that Terence E. Adderley, the Executive Chairman of our board of directors, and certain trusts of which he acts as trustee or co-trustee have voting power with respect to more than fifty percent of our outstanding voting stock. A controlled company is not required to have a majority of its board of directors comprised of independent directors. Director nominees are not required to be selected or recommended for the board’s selection by a majority of independent directors or a nominations committee comprised solely of independent directors, nor do the NASDAQ Global Market listing standards require a controlled company to certify the adoption of a formal written charter or board resolution, as applicable, addressing the nominations process. A controlled company is also exempt from NASDAQ Global Market’s requirements regarding the determination of officer compensation by a majority of independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. A controlled company is required to have an audit committee composed of at least three directors, who are independent as defined under the rules of both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Global Market further requires that all members of the audit committee have the ability to read and understand fundamental financial statements and that at least one member of the audit committee possess financial sophistication. The independent directors must also meet at least twice a year in meetings at which only they are present. We currently comply with certain of the listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market that do not apply to controlled companies. Our compliance is voluntary, however, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to comply with these standards in the future. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. For example, if a potential acquirer were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquirer would not be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors or act by written consent without a meeting. The acquirer would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to replace directors at any annual meeting, and would not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which would require the acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on the board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. 12 Our board of directors also has the ability to issue additional shares of common stock that could significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits mergers and other business combination transactions involving 15 percent or greater stockholders of Delaware corporations unless certain board or stockholder approval requirements are satisfied. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquirer that it did not believe was in our strategic interests. If an acquirer is discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by these or other measures, our shareholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a favorable price. The holders of shares of our Class A common stock are not entitled to voting rights. Under our certificate of incorporation, the holders of shares of our Class A common stock are not entitled to voting rights, except as otherwise required by Delaware law. As a result, Class A common stock holders do not have the right to vote for the election of directors or in connection with most other matters submitted for the vote of our stockholders. Our stock price may be subject to significant volatility and could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant volatility. We believe that many factors, including several which are beyond our control, have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. These include: ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; ● announcements of new services by us or our competitors; ● announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; ● changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; ● changes in general economic conditions; ● actual or anticipated changes in laws and government regulations; ● commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; ● any major change in our board or management; ● changes in industry trends or conditions; and ● sales of significant amounts of our common stock or other securities in the market. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Further, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In such event, the price of our common stock may decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 13 