Risk Factors,” many of which are beyond Kelly’s control. These factors include actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; announcements of new services by Kelly or its competitors; announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and changes in general economic conditions. Because of this, Kelly may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of its shareholders or of securities analysts, and its stock price could fluctuate as a result. Concentration of Ownership Terence E. Adderley, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and certain trusts with respect to which he acts as trustee or co-trustee, control approximately 92.6% of outstanding Kelly Class B common stock, which is the only class of stock entitled to voting rights. Mr. Adderley is therefore able to exercise voting control of the Company with respect to matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Access to Company Information Kelly electronically files the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any of the reports that are filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Kelly makes available, free of charge, through its website, and by responding to requests addressed to its director of investor relations, the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Kelly’s website address is: www.kellyservices.com. The information contained on the website, or on other websites linked to the website, is not part of this document. 7 