Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in the securities of the Company involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in the securities of the Company, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mortality. In many cases, Investors Heritage Life requires evidence of insurability before issuing individual life policies including, in some cases, a medical examination or a statement by an attending physician. Home office underwriters review the evidence of insurability required and approve the issuance of the policy in accordance with the application if the risk is acceptable. Some applicants who are substandard risks are rejected, but many are offered policies with higher premiums, restricted coverages or reduced benefits during the first or second policy years. The majority of the single premium business is written through the preneed funeral market without evidence of insurability, relying on safeguards such as product design, limits on the amount of coverage, and premiums that recognize the resultant higher level of claims. To further reduce the risk, one of our single premium products requires evidence of insurability utilizing simplified underwriting. Our operations are also exposed to risk of loss from catastrophes. For example, natural or man-made disasters or a disease pandemic such as could arrive from the Avian Flu could significantly increase our mortality and morbidity experience. Policyholders may be unable to meet their obligations to pay premiums on our insurance policies. Reinsurance. Investors Heritage Life utilizes numerous reinsurance agreements to cede life insurance coverage in excess of our retention limits, which are established internally by management. We use reinsurance to help manage our exposure to life insurance risks and these agreements provide significant reduction in the risk associated with issuing life insurance policies by passing that risk on to the reinsurer. Under these reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and related expenses; however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims and we are subject to our reinsurer's credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from them. In order to reduce this risk, we only reinsure our business with highly rated companies or in situations where adequate reserves, which are established by us, are placed in trust or protected by an irrevocable letter of credit. In addition, we evaluate periodically the financial condition of our reinsurers to minimize our exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. However, our reinsurers may become financially unsound or choose to dispute their contractional obligations by the time their financial obligations become due. The inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations to us could negatively affect our consolidated operating results. In addition, market conditions beyond our control could determine the availability and costs of the reinsurance we are able to purchase. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as are currently available. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our net liability exposure, reduce the amount of business we write, or develop other alternatives to reinsurance. Investors Heritage Life has not experienced a reinsurer default under any of the reinsurance agreements to which Investors Heritage Life is a party. Further, we have no knowledge of and do not anticipate any material default in any existing reinsurance obligation. Regulation of Insurance. Our business is subject to extensive laws and regulations and supervision by the insurance regulatory authority of each state in which Investors Heritage Life is licensed to do business. Such regulators have broad administrative powers to, among other things: grant licenses to companies to transact business; regulate trade practices; approve policy forms; license agents; approve certain premium rates; establish minimum reserve and loss ratio requirements; review form and content of required financial statements; prescribe types and amounts of investments permitted; calculate the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; approve changes in control of insurance companies; restrict the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and establish statutory capital, surplus and reserve requirements, and assure that those requirements are met. Insurance companies can also be required under the solvency or guaranty laws of most states in which they do business to pay assessments up to prescribed limits to fund policyholder losses or liabilities of insolvent insurance companies. They are also required to file detailed annual reports with supervisory agencies, and records of their business are subject to examination at any time. Under the rules of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"), a self-regulatory organization of state insurance commissioners, insurance companies are examined periodically by one or more of the regulatory authorities. Domiciled in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Investors Heritage Life is licensed by the Kentucky Department of Insurance and is subject to its examination and regulations. The triennial audit was last completed during 2004 for the three years ending December 31, 2003. The Examination Report contained no specific recommendations and no material adjustments were made to the statutory financial statements of Investors Heritage Life. The next triennial audit will occur during 2007. The NAIC adopted a "Risk Based Capital for Life and/or Health Insurers Model Act" (the "Model Act") which was designed to identify inadequately capitalized life and health insurers. The Model Act defines two key measures: (i) adjusted capital, which equals an insurer's statutory capital and surplus plus its asset valuation reserve, plus one-half its liability for policyholder dividends ("Adjusted Capital") and (ii) authorized control level risk based capital ("RBC"). RBC is determined by a complex formula which is intended to take into account the various risks assumed by an insurer. Should an insurer's Adjusted Capital fall below certain prescribed levels (defined in terms of its RBC), the Model Act provides for various levels of regulatory attention. Since the Adjusted Capital levels of Investors Heritage Life currently exceed all of the regulatory action levels as defined by the NAIC's Model Act, the Model Act currently has no negative impact on our operations or financial condition. Statutory restrictions also limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by Investors Heritage Life. Generally, dividends during any year may not be paid, without prior regulatory approval, in excess of the lesser of (a) 10 percent of statutory surplus as of the preceding December 31, or (b) statutory net income for the preceding year. For 2007, the maximum dividend that Investors Heritage Life can pay without regulatory approval is $997,911. Dividends received from Investors Heritage Life for 2006 amounted to $728,769. State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in all of these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Compliance with these laws and regulations is also time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance costs and other expenses of doing business, thus having an adverse effect on our business, consolidating operating results, financial condition and liquidity. As a holding company, Kentucky Investors is not regulated as an insurance company. However, since Kentucky Investors owns all of the capital stock of Investors Heritage Life, it is subject to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws. All holding company statutes, as well as other laws, require disclosure and, in some instances, prior approval of material transactions between an insurance company and an affiliate. The holding company statutes and other laws also require, among other things, prior approval of an acquisition of control of a domestic insurer, some transactions between affiliates and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions. Changes in Regulation. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal or national regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to the option available to most banks. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. Insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current requirements or may result in higher costs. Although the United States federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies in some areas, including changes in financial services regulation and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. Competition. The life insurance business is highly competitive. With the introduction of universal life and other interest sensitive products in recent years, competition with other financial institutions has increased. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the insurance and financial services industries resulting in increased competition from large, well-capitalized insurance and financial services firms that market products and services similar to ours. The industry includes both stock and mutual companies, including some of the largest financial institutions in the United States. While we are responsive to the current economic environment, the life insurance market is relatively volatile, and our operating results may vary as a result of those conditions. These competitors compete with us for producers such as brokers and independent agents. Larger competitors may have lower operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risks while maintaining their financial strength ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively. Because of the competitive nature of the insurance industry, there can be no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We differentiate ourself through our marketing techniques, product features, customer service and reputation. We maintain our competitive position by our focus on areas which have historically proven profitable. Those areas include single premium preneed products, multi-pay premium final expense products, traditional whole life products, mortgage protection products and level term products. Our competitive position is maintained by our ability to provide quality customer service throughout the distribution system. Other competitive strengths include our asset/liability management system and our quality investment portfolio which provides liquidity. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. On a continuing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to investments, deferred acquisition costs, present value of future profits, policy liabilities, income taxes, accrued pension expense, regulatory requirements, contingencies and litigation. We base such estimates on historical experience and other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. These Risk Factors are discussed in more detail in Management's Discussion and Analysis. See "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" on pages 7-9 of the Annual Report to the Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition to the critical accounting policies and estimates, our financial results may also vary due to numerous foreseeable and unforeseeable factors and developments including general economic conditions, changes in tax laws and changes in interest rates. Some of these factors are related to the insurance industry generally, such as pricing competition, statutory and regulatory developments, industry consolidation and the effects of competition. Others are related to the Company specifically, such as credit, volatility and other risks associated with our investment portfolio. Maintaining the Availability of Our Systems and Safeguarding the Security of Our Data. We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and Company data and information. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to access these systems to perform necessary business functions, such as providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims and providing customer support. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a disaster, such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, our systems may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. Even if our employees are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled or destroyed. Our systems could also be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, and subject to similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our systems. This may impede or interrupt our business operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity. We have adopted a disaster recovery plan, which includes the ability to operate our systems at an offsite location with data that is backed-up on a daily basis and stored offsite. We test critical aspects of this plan at least annually to ensure its adequacy in the event it is needed. We also maintain safeguards to protect the privacy and security of our data. Potential Changes in State or Federal Tax Laws. Many of the products that we sell currently benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status under current federal and state income tax regimes. For example, we sell life insurance policies which benefit from the deferral or elimination of taxation on earnings accrued under the policy, as well as permanent exclusion of certain death benefits that may be paid to policyholders' beneficiaries. We also sell annuity contracts which allow the policyholders to defer the recognition of taxable income earned within the contracts. We also benefit from certain tax benefits, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends-received deductions, and insurance reserve deductions. There is a risk that federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting our policyholders and us. The effects of any such changes could result in materially lower product sales, lapses of policies currently held, and/or materially higher corporate taxes that would be incurred by the Company. 