Item 1A. Risk Factors. Mortality. In many cases Investors Heritage Life requires evidence of insurability before issuing individual life policies including, in some cases, a medical examination or a statement by an attending physician. Home office underwriters review the evidence of insurability required and approve the issuance of the policy in accordance with the application if the risk is acceptable. Some applicants who are substandard risks are rejected, but many are offered policies with higher premiums, restricted coverages or reduced benefits during the first or second policy years. The majority of the single premium business is written through the preneed funeral market without evidence of insurability, relying on safeguards such as product design, limits on the amount of coverage, and premiums which recognize the resultant higher level of claims. To further reduce the risk, one of our new single premium products requires evidence of insurability utilizing simplified underwriting. Reinsurance. Investors Heritage Life utilizes numerous reinsurance agreements to cede life insurance coverage in excess of our retention limits which are established internally by management. These agreements provide significant reduction in the risk associated with issuing life insurance policies by passing that risk on to the reinsurer. To the extent that the reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations under the reinsurance agreements, the primary obligation would return to Investors Heritage Life. In order to reduce this risk, Investors Heritage Life only reinsures its business with highly rated companies or in situations where adequate reserves, established by Investors Heritage Life, are placed in trust or protected by an irrevocable letter of credit. Investors Heritage Life has not experienced a reinsurer default under any of the reinsurance agreements to which Investors Heritage Life is a party. Further, Investors Heritage Life has no knowledge of and does not anticipate any material default in any existing reinsurance obligation. Regulation of Insurance. Investors Heritage Life's business is subject to regulation and supervision by the insurance regulatory authority of each state in which Investors Heritage Life is licensed to do business. Such regulators grant licenses to transact business; regulate trade practices; approve policy forms; license agents; approve certain premium rates; establish minimum reserve and loss ratio requirements; review form and content of required financial statements; prescribe types and amounts of investments permitted; and assure that capital, surplus and solvency requirements are met. Insurance companies can also be required under the solvency or guaranty laws of most states in which they do business to pay assessments up to prescribed limits to fund policyholder losses or liabilities of insolvent insurance companies. They are also required to file detailed annual reports with supervisory agencies, and records of their business are subject to examination at any time. Under the rules of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"), a self-regulatory organization of state insurance commissioners, insurance companies are examined periodically by one or more of the regulatory authorities. Domiciled in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Investors Heritage Life is licensed by the Kentucky Department of Insurance and is subject to its examination and regulations. The triennial audit was completed during 2004 for the three years ending December 31, 2003. The Examination Report contained no specific recommendations and no material adjustments were made to the statutory financial statements of Investors Heritage Life. In December of 1992, the NAIC adopted a "Risk Based Capital for Life and/or Health Insurers Model Act" (the "Model Act") which was designed to identify inadequately capitalized life and health insurers. The Model Act defines two key measures: (i) adjusted capital, which equals an insurer's statutory capital and surplus plus its asset valuation reserve, plus one-half its liability for policyholder dividends ("Adjusted Capital") and (ii) authorized control level risk based capital ("RBC"). RBC is determined by a complex formula which is intended to take into account the various risks assumed by an insurer. Should an insurer's Adjusted Capital fall below certain prescribed levels (defined in terms of its RBC), the Model Act provides for various levels of regulatory attention. Since the Adjusted Capital levels of Investors Heritage Life currently exceed all of the regulatory action levels as defined by the NAIC's Model Act, the Model Act currently has no negative impact on the Company's operations or financial condition. Statutory restrictions also limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by Investors Heritage Life. Generally, dividends during any year may not be paid, without prior regulatory approval, in excess of the lesser of (a) 10 percent of statutory surplus as of the preceding December 31, or (b) statutory net income for the preceding year. In addition, dividends are limited to the amount of unassigned surplus reported for statutory purposes, which was $8,286,907 at December 31, 2005. Dividend income from Investors Heritage Life for 2005 amounted to $3,266,819. In addition, the NAIC has adopted a model regulation dealing with small face amount life insurance policies. This regulation requires disclosures for small face policyholders regarding the time when premiums paid will equal or exceed the death benefit of the policy, and any alternatives available to the insured. To date only one state, North Carolina, has adopted the model regulation and Investors Heritage Life is in compliance with North Carolina law. No additional requirements are expected to be adopted by the NAIC. To the extent that a statute or regulation is adopted that puts a limit on the amount of premiums that can be collected on a small face amount policy, it would potentially limit the ages at which we would issue such a policy and require us to increase premiums for all policyholders. Because regulators are generally in the process of relinquishing their authority to regulate rates on other types of insurance and because life insurance rates have never been regulated, it is unlikely that regulators would decide to regulate rates for life insurance policies at this time. However, if such rate regulation occurs, it will negatively impact some of the products we sell and some of the markets in which we operate, specifically the preneed and burial markets. Competition. The life insurance business is highly competitive. With the introduction of universal life and other interest sensitive products in recent years, competition with other financial institutions has increased. The industry includes both stock and mutual companies, including some of the largest financial institutions in the United States. While Investors Heritage Life is responsive to the current economic environment, the life insurance market is relatively volatile, and Investors Heritage Life's operating results may vary as a result of those conditions. Investors Heritage Life differentiates itself through its marketing techniques, product features, customer service and reputation. Investors Heritage Life maintains its competitive position by its focus on areas which have historically proven profitable. Those areas include single premium preneed products, multi-pay premium final expense products, traditional whole life products, mortgage protection products and level term products. Investors Heritage Life's competitive position is maintained by its ability to provide quality customer service throughout the distribution system. Other competitive strengths include Investors Heritage Life's asset/liability management system and its quality investment portfolio which provides liquidity. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. On a continuing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to investments, deferred acquisition costs, present value of future profits, policy liabilities, income taxes, accrued pension expense, regulatory requirements, contingencies and litigation. We base such estimates on historical experience and other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. These Risk Factors are discussed in more detail in the Management's Discussion and Analysis. In addition to the critical accounting policies and estimates, our financial results may also vary due to numerous foreseeable and unforeseeable factors and developments including general economic conditions, changes in tax laws and changes in interest rates. Some of these factors are related to the insurance industry generally, such as pricing competition, statutory and regulatory developments, industry consolidation and the effects of competition. Others are related to the Company specifically, such as credit, volatility and other risks associated with our investment portfolio. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has no unresolved staff comments. 