Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks before your decide to buy shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition would likely suffer. In such case, the trading price of our common stock would decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our stock. This and other public reports may contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about us and our industry. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those forward-looking statements as results of many factors, as more fully described below and elsewhere in our public reports. We do not undertake to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reasons, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. If we fail to compete effectively, our revenue and profit margins could decline. We face a variety of competition in all of the markets in which we participate. Competitive pricing, including price competition or the introduction of new products, could have material adverse effects on our revenues and profit margins. Our ability to compete effectively depends to a significant extent on the specification or approval of our products by architects, engineers, and customers. If a significant segment of those communities were to decide that the design, materials, manufacturing, testing or quality control of our products is inferior to that of any of our competitors, our sales and profits would be materially and adversely affected. If we lose a large customer, our sales and profits would decline. We have substantial sales to one large customer. In particular, one customer accounted for 14% of our net sales in fiscal year 2006. Loss of all or a part of our sales to a large customer would have a material effect on our revenues and profits. An increase in the price of raw materials could negatively affect our sales and profits. Our principal raw materials are steel, including stainless steel, wood and epoxy resin. Numerous factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, competition, worldwide demand, labor costs, energy costs, and import duties and other trade restrictions, influence prices for our raw materials. In March 2002, for example, the United States imposed tariffs on several types of imported steel, which increased our cost of steel. In addition, consolidation among domestic integrated steel producers, changes in supply and demand in steel markets, the weakening United States dollar and other events have led to increased steel costs. The domestic steel market is heavily influenced by three major United States manufacturers. Worldwide demand for steel is strong. We have not always been able, and in the future we might not be able, to increase our product prices in amounts that correspond to increase in costs of raw materials, without materially and adversely affecting our sales and profits. We have not attempted to hedge against changes in prices of steel or other raw materials. Our future growth may depend on our ability to penetrate new international markets. International laws and regulations, construction customs, standards, techniques and methods differ from those in the United States. Significant challenges of conducting business in foreign countries include, among other factors, local acceptance of our products, political instability, currency controls, changes in import and export regulations, changes in tariff and freight rates, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. 5 Events outside our control may affect our operating results. We have little control over the timing of our customer shipments. Shipments that we anticipate in one quarter may occur in another quarter, affecting both quarters’ results. Weather conditions, such as unseasonably warm, cold or wet weather, can affect and sometimes delay projects. Political and economic events can also affect our revenues. When sales do not meet our expectations, our operating results will be reduced for the relevant quarters. Our principal markets are in the laboratory building construction industry. This industry is subject to significant volatility due to various factors, none of which is within our control. Declines in construction activity or demand for our products could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We depend on key management and technical personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business. We depend on certain key management and technical personnel. The loss of one or more key employees may materially and adversely affect us. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified technical, marketing and management personnel necessary for the maintenance and expansion of our activities. We might not be able to attract or retain such personnel. Our stock price is likely to be volatile and could drop. The trading price of our Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter to quarter variation in operating results, announcement of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, general conditions in the construction and construction materials industries, relatively low trading volume in our Common Stock and other events or factors. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price fluctuations. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. Securities market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. We are subject to a number of significant risks that might cause our actual results to vary materially from our forecasts, targets, or projections, including: • Failing to anticipate, appropriately invest in and effectively manage the human, information technology and logistical resources necessary to support the growth of our business, including managing the costs associated with such resources; • Failing to generate sufficient future positive operating cash flows and, if necessary, secure adequate external financing to fund our growth; and • Interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the 6 consolidated financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of our assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our consolidated financial statements would be prevented or detected. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 