ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Listed below are certain risk factors associated with our businesses. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our publicly-traded securities. Our leverage may impair our financial condition or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We fund our operations primarily through cash from operations and borrowings on our revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility requires us to use our daily cash receipts to reduce outstanding borrowings, which results in us maintaining zero cash balances when there are balances outstanding under the credit facility. The amount of available borrowings under our revolving credit facility is based on formula-determined amounts of trade receivables and inventories. Our revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. We were in compliance with the financial covenants at December 31, 2009 and we believe we will be able to comply with the covenant restrictions through the maturity of the facility; however if future operating results differ materially from our predictions we may be unable to maintain compliance. The credit facility is collateralized by substantially all of our operating assets and failure to comply with the covenants contained in the credit facility could result in the acceleration of any outstanding balances under the facility prior to their stated maturity date. Additionally, the lenders participating in the credit facility can restrict our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness and can declare a default under the credit facility in the event of, among other things, a material adverse change in our business. In the event of an uncured default of our primary credit facility agreement, we would seek to refinance the facility with a new group of lenders or, if required, we will use other existing liquidity resources (which could include funds provided by our affiliates). - 12 - - Our revolving credit facility expires in August 2010. We believe we will be able to obtain sufficient financing for our operations upon expiration of the credit facility through renewal of the existing facility or a new facility with a new group of lenders. However, there is no assurance that such financing can be obtained, or if obtained that it would not be on terms that would result in higher costs to us (such as a higher interest rate on outstanding borrowings). If we were unable to obtain such financing, our liquidity could be negatively affected. Our dependence on borrowing availability from our revolving credit facility could have important consequences to our stockholders and creditors, including: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our liabilities; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, regulatory requirements and the industry in which we operate; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less-leveraged competitors. Demand for, and prices of, certain of our products are cyclical and we are currently operating in depressed market conditions, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. A significant portion of our revenues are attributable to sales of products into the agricultural and construction industries. These two industries themselves are cyclical and changes in those industries’ economic conditions can significantly impact our earnings and operating cash flows. Additionally, the current world-wide economic downturn has depressed sales volumes, and we are unable to predict with a high degree of certainty when demand will return to the levels experienced prior to the fourth quarter of 2008. Our operating results and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by, among other things, economic conditions, availability of credit to fund agricultural and construction projects, short and long-term weather patterns, interest rates and embargos placed by foreign countries on U.S. agricultural products. - 13 - - We sell the majority of our products in mature and highly competitive industries and face price pressures in the markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. The markets in which we operate our businesses are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality, delivery times and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because the competitors’ costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors’ financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand negative changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the industries in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products. In addition, in some of our businesses new competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities so they could manufacture products that compete with our products. The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Many of EWP’s products are ultimately used in infrastructure projects by local, state or federal governments. Such projects are impacted by the availability of governmental funding for such projects. A decline in the availability of governmental funds for such projects could ultimately result in a decline in demand or selling prices of EWP’s products. Such a decline could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Wire rod continues to be imported into the U.S. Global producers of wire rod are able to import their products into the U.S. with minimal tariffs and duties. Many of these global wire rod producers are able to produce wire rod at costs lower than we incur in our production. As such, these wire rod imports are often able to be priced at lower levels than similar products manufactured by us. In addition, we believe certain foreign governments subsidize their local wire rod producers. These events can adversely impact our shipment levels and pricing decisions and, as such, could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Higher costs or limited availability of ferrous scrap may decrease our liquidity. The cost of ferrous scrap, our primary raw material, can fluctuate significantly and product selling prices cannot always be adjusted, especially in the short-term, to recover the costs of increases in ferrous scrap prices. Additionally, should our local ferrous scrap suppliers not be able to meet their contractual obligations, we may incur higher costs for ferrous scrap. Negative global economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers' accounts receivable which would adversely affect our financial results. We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. Although we have an ongoing process of evaluating our customers' financial condition, we could suffer significant losses if a customer fails and is unable to pay us. A significant loss of an accounts receivable would have a negative impact on our financial results. - 14 - - Climate change legislation could negatively impact our financial results or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We believe all of our production facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws. Proposed legislation is being considered to limit green house gases through various means, including emissions permits and/or energy taxes. Our production facilities consume large amounts of energy, including electricity and natural gas. To date the permit system in effect has not had a material adverse effect on our financial results. However, if green house gas legislation were to be enacted, it could negatively impact our future results from operations through increased costs of production, particularly as it relates to our energy requirements. If such increased costs of production were to materialize, we may be unable to pass price increases on to our customers to compensate for increased production costs, which may decrease our liquidity, operating income and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 