Risk Factors," Item 3 – "Legal Proceedings," Item 7 – "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Item 7A – "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," are forward-looking statements that represent our beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information. In some cases you can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of words such as "believes," "intends," "may," "should," "could," "anticipates," "expected" or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategies or trends. Although we believe the expectations reflected in forward-looking statements are reasonable, we do not know if these expectations will be correct. Forward-looking statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly impact expected results. Actual future results could differ materially from those predicted. While it is not possible to identify all factors, we continue to face many risks and uncertainties. Among the factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from those described herein are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report and those described from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) including, but not limited to, the following: · Future supply and demand for our products (including cyclicality thereof), · Customer inventory levels, · Changes in raw material and other operating costs (such as ferrous scrap and energy), · The possibility of labor disruptions, · General global economic and political conditions, · Competitive products (including low-priced imports) and substitute products, · Customer and competitor strategies, · The impact of pricing and production decisions, · Environmental matters (such as those requiring emission and discharge standards for existing and new facilities), · Government regulations and possible changes therein, · Significant increases in the cost of providing medical coverage to employees, · The ultimate resolution of pending litigation, · International trade policies of the United States and certain foreign countries, · Operating interruptions (including, but not limited to, labor disputes, fires, explosions, unscheduled or unplanned downtime and transportation interruptions), · Our ability to renew or refinance credit facilities, and · Any possible future litigation. Should one or more of these risks materialize, if the consequences worsen, or if the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of changes in information, future events or otherwise. - 3 - - ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Keystone Consolidated Industries, Inc. (“KCI”) is a leading domestic manufacturer of steel fabricated wire products, industrial wire, billets and wire rod. We also manufacture welded wire reinforcement, coiled rebar and, beginning in March 2007, steel bars and shapes. Our products are used in the agricultural, industrial, cold drawn, construction, transportation, original equipment manufacturer and retail consumer markets. We are vertically integrated, converting substantially all of our fabricated wire products, welded wire reinforcement, coiled rebar, industrial wire and steel bars and shapes from billets and wire rod produced in our steel mini-mill. Historically, our vertical integration has allowed us to benefit from the higher and more stable margins associated with fabricated wire products and welded wire reinforcement as compared to wire rod, as well as from lower production costs of wire rod as compared to wire fabricators that purchase wire rod in the open market. Moreover, we believe our downstream fabricated wire products, welded wire reinforcement, coiled rebar, industrial wire and steel bars and shapes businesses better insulate us from the effects of wire rod imports as compared to non-integrated wire rod producers. Our operating segments are organized by our manufacturing facilities and include three reportable segments: · Keystone Steel and Wire (“KSW”), located in Peoria, Illinois, operates an electric arc furnace mini-mill and manufactures and sells billets, wire rod, industrial wire, coiled rebar and fabricated wire products to agricultural, industrial, construction, commercial, original equipment manufacturers and retail consumer markets; · Engineered Wire Products (“EWP”), located in Upper Sandusky, Ohio, manufactures and sells welded wire reinforcement in both roll and sheet form that is utilized in concrete construction products including pipe, pre-cast boxes and applications for use in roadways, buildings and bridges; and · Keystone-Calumet, Inc. (“Calumet”), located in Chicago Heights, Illinois, manufactures and sells merchant and special bar quality products and special sections in carbon and alloy steel grades for use in agricultural, cold drawn, construction, industrial chain, service centers, and transportation applications. See Note 2 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information about our segments see “Part II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We are the successor to Keystone Steel & Wire Company, which was founded in 1889. At December 31, 2007, Contran Corporation owns 53.1% of our outstanding common stock. Substantially all of Contran's outstanding voting stock is held by trusts established for the benefit of certain children and grandchildren of Harold C. Simmons (for which Mr. Simmons is the sole trustee) or is held directly by Mr. Simmons or other persons or companies related to Mr. Simmons. Consequently, Mr. Simmons may be deemed to control Contran and us. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this report to "we", "us" or "our" refer to KCI and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. - 4 - - Manufacturing Overview Our manufacturing operations consist of an electric arc furnace mini-mill, a rod mill, a wire mill and three steel product fabrication facilities as outlined in our segment discussion above. The manufacturing process commences at KSW where ferrous scrap is loaded into an electric arc furnace, converted into molten steel and then transferred to a ladle refining furnace where chemistries and temperatures are monitored and adjusted to specifications prior to casting. The molten steel is transferred from the ladle refining furnace into a six-strand continuous casting machine which produces five-inch square strands, referred to as billets, that are cut to predetermined lengths. These billets are then either transferred to the adjoining rod mill, shipped to Calumet for the production of steel bars and shapes or sold to third party customers. Upon entering the rod mill, the billets are brought to rolling temperature in a reheat furnace and are fed to the rolling mill, where they are rolled into either wire rod or coiled rebar in a variety of diameters and specifications. After rolling, the wire rod or rebar is coiled and cooled. After cooling, the coiled wire rod or rebar passes through inspection stations for metallurgical, surface and diameter checks. Finished coils are compacted and tied. Coiled rebar is shipped to customers and wire rod is either further processed into industrial wire, welded wire reinforcement and fabricated wire products at our wire mill and wire product fabrication facilities or shipped to wire rod customers. While we do not maintain a significant "shelf" inventory of finished wire rod, we generally have on hand approximately a one-month supply of industrial wire, welded wire reinforcement, coiled rebar, fabricated wire products and steel bars and shapes inventory which enables us to fill customer orders and respond to shifts in product demand. Raw Materials and Energy The primary raw material used in our operations is ferrous scrap. Our steel mill is located close to numerous sources of high density automobile, industrial and railroad ferrous scrap, all of which are currently available. We believe we are one of the largest recyclers of ferrous scrap in Illinois. The purchase of ferrous scrap is highly competitive and its price volatility is influenced by periodic shortages, export activity, freight costs, weather, and other conditions beyond our control. The cost of ferrous scrap can fluctuate significantly and product selling prices cannot always be adjusted, especially in the short-term, to recover the costs of increases in ferrous scrap prices. We have not entered into any long-term contracts for the purchase or supply of ferrous scrap; therefore, we are subject to the price fluctuation of ferrous scrap. Our manufacturing processes consume large amounts of energy in the form of electricity and natural gas. During 2005 and 2006, we purchased electrical energy for KSW from a utility under an interruptible service contract which provided for more economical electricity rates but allowed the utility to refuse or interrupt power to KSW. During this time, the utility exercised their rights under the contract and periodically interrupted our power, which resulted in decreased production and increased costs associated with the related downtime. This agreement expired on December 31, 2006. Deregulation of electricity in Illinois occurred on January 1, 2007 after a ten-year rate freeze. For 2007 and 2008, we have a firm uninterruptible contract for delivery of power. Under this new contract, on a daily basis, we are required to notify the utility of the amount of electricity we expect to consume on the next day, and the price we pay for this electricity is determined when we provide such notification based on the forecasted hourly energy market rate for the next day. Any difference between our forecasted consumption and actual consumption will be settled based on the actual hourly market rate. However, to allow us to avoid pricing fluctuations, the contract allows us to purchase blocks of power in the forward markets at our discretion at prices negotiated at the time of purchase. - 5 - - Employment As of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 1,100 people, some of whom are covered under collective bargaining agreements, as follows: · 700 are represented by the Independent Steel Workers’ Alliance at KSW under an agreement expiring in May 2009; · 4 are represented by the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (Local 1570) at a KSW distribution center in Sherman, Texas under an agreement expiring in October 2008; and · 70 are represented by Local Union #40, an Affiliate to the International Brotherhood of Teamsters' Chauffeurs Warehousemen and Helpers of America, AFL-CIO at EWP under an agreement expiring in November 2009. We believe our labor relations are good. Products, Markets and Distribution The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our product mix in each of the last three years. Year Ended December 31, 2005 2006 2007 Product Percent of Tons Shipped Percent of Sales Percent of Tons Shipped Percent of Sales Percent of Tons Shipped Percent of Sales Fabricated wire products 19.2 % 30.1 % 16.5 % 26.6 % 16.0 % 25.2 % Welded wire reinforcement 13.6 17.2 10.0 13.5 9.0 11.7 Nails (1) 3.2 3.4 2.6 2.8 0.1 0.1 Industrial wire 13.7 14.4 11.2 12.6 10.1 11.2 Coiled rebar - - 0.2 0.1 2.4 1.9 Bars and shapes - - - - 1.3 1.3 Wire rod 44.9 32.4 51.6 40.1 61.0 48.5 Billets 5.4 2.5 7.9 4.3 0.1 0.1 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) We decided to discontinue our nail manufacturing operations during the third quarter of 2006 and all nail production was phased out by the end of the second quarter of 2007. However, we continue to purchase small quantities of nails for resale. Fabricated Wire Products. KSW is one of the leading U.S. manufacturers of agricultural fencing, barbed wire, stockade panels and a variety of woven wire mesh, fabric and netting for agricultural and industrial applications. We sell these products to agricultural, industrial, consumer do-it-yourself and other end-user markets which we believe are less cyclical than many steel consuming end-use markets such as the automotive, construction, appliance and machinery manufacturing industries. We serve these markets through distributors, agricultural retailers, building supply centers and consumer do-it-yourself chains such as Tractor Supply Co., Lowe's Companies, Inc., and Ace Hardware Corporation. We believe our ability to service these customers with a wide range of fabricated wire products through multiple distribution locations provides a competitive advantage in accessing these growing and less cyclical markets. As part of our marketing strategy, we design merchandise packaging, and supportive product literature for marketing many of these products to the retail consumer market. - 6 - - KSW also manufactures products for residential and commercial construction, including rebar ty wire and stucco netting. The primary customers for these products are construction contractors and building materials manufacturers and distributors. We believe our fabricated wire products are less susceptible to the cyclical nature of the steel business than industrial wire, coiled rebar or wire rod because the commodity-priced raw materials used in these products, such as ferrous scrap, represent a lower percentage of the total cost of such value-added products. Welded Wire Reinforcement. EWP manufactures a wide variety of wire mesh rolls and sheets used to form wire reinforcement in concrete construction projects such as pipe, precast boxes and other applications, including use in roadways, buildings, and bridges. Our welded wire reinforcement customers include pipe manufacturers, culvert manufacturers, rebar fabricators, and steel reinforcing distributors. Like our fabricated wire products, we believe our welded wire reinforcement products are also less susceptible to the cyclical nature of the steel business than industrial wire, coiled rebar or wire rod because the commodity-priced raw materials used in these products, such as ferrous scrap, represent a lower percentage of the total cost of such value-added products when compared to wire rod or other less value-added products. EWP’s primary raw material is wire rod and KSW provides the majority of EWP’s wire rod requirements. Industrial Wire. KSW is one of the largest manufacturers of industrial wire in the United States. We produce custom-drawn industrial wire in a variety of gauges, finishes and packages for further consumption by our fabricated wire products operations or for sale to industrial fabrication and original equipment manufacturer customers, who are generally not our competitors. Our industrial wire is used by customers in the production of a broad range of finished goods, including nails, coat hangers, barbecue grills, air conditioners, tools, containers, refrigerators and other appliances. Coiled Rebar. We produce several sizes of coiled rebar at KSW’s rod mill. The coils are typically used by fabricators who will process the material as straightened and cut to length bars or fabricated shapes for specific reinforcement applications such as building and road construction. Bars and Shapes. Calumet manufactures merchant and special bar quality products and special sections in carbon and alloy steel grades, offering a broad range of value added products for use in agricultural, cold drawn, construction, industrial chain, service centers and transportation applications. Calumet’s product line consists primarily of angles, flats, channels, rounds and squares. Calumet’s primary raw material is billets and KSW provides the majority of Calumet’s billet requirements. Wire Rod. We produce primarily low carbon steel wire rod and some higher carbon steel wire rod at KSW’s rod mill. Low carbon steel wire rod, with carbon content of up to 0.38%, is more easily shaped and formed than higher carbon wire rod and is suitable for a variety of applications where ease of forming is a consideration. During 2007, we internally utilized approximately 38% of the wire rod we manufactured to produce industrial wire, welded wire reinforcement and fabricated wire products. The remainder of our wire rod production was sold directly to producers of construction products, fabricated wire products and industrial wire, including products similar to those we manufacture. Billets. KSW’s annual permitted billet production capacity is 820,000 tons, which is higher than the production capacity of KSW’s rod mill and Calumet’s annual billet consumption. As a result, we sometimes sell excess billets to producers of products manufactured from low carbon steel. - 7 - - Trademarks Many of our fencing and related wire products are marketed under our RED BRAND® label, a widely recognized brand name in the agricultural fencing and construction marketplaces for more than 80 years. RED BRAND sales represented approximately 82% of our fabricated wire products net sales in 2007. We also maintain other trademarks for various products that have been promoted in their respective markets. Customers Our customers are primarily located in the Midwestern, Southwestern and Southeastern regions of the United States. Our customers vary considerably by product. We believe our ability to offer a broad range of products represents a competitive advantage in servicing the diverse needs of our customers. Our segments are not dependent upon a single customer or a few customers, the loss of any one, or a few, would not have a material adverse effect on our segments’ business. The percentage of sales related to each of our segments’ ten largest external customers and the percentage of sales related to the external customers at each of our segments that accounted for more than 10% of that segment’s net sales during 2007 (one customer at each of KSW and EWP and two customers at Calumet) is set forth in the following table: KSW EWP Calumet % of Segments’ Sales Ten largest customers 50% 51% 65% Customers > 10% 15% 11% 23% Seasonality Historically, we have experienced greater sales and profits during the first half of the year due to the seasonality of sales in principal wire products markets, including the agricultural and construction markets. Backlog Our backlog of unfilled cancelable fabricated wire products, welded wire reinforcement, industrial wire, coiled rebar, steel bars and shapes and wire rod purchase orders, for delivery generally within three months, approximated $25.8 million and $69.2 million at December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We do not believe backlog is a significant factor in our business, and we expect all of the backlog at December 31, 2007 will be shipped during 2008. Industry and Competition The fabricated wire products, welded wire reinforcement, industrial wire, coiled rebar and wire rod businesses in the United States are highly competitive and are comprised primarily of several large mini-mill wire rod producers, many small independent wire companies and a few large diversified wire producers. We also face significant foreign competition. Lower wage rates and other costs in foreign countries have resulted in market prices that significantly reduce and sometimes eliminate the profitability of certain products. We believe we are well positioned to compete effectively due to: · the breadth of our fabricated wire products, welded wire reinforcement and industrial wire offerings; · our ability to service diverse geographic and product markets; and · the relatively low cost of our internal supply of wire rod. - 8 - - We believe our facilities are well located to serve the Midwestern, Southwestern and Southeastern regions of the United States. Close proximity to our customer base provides us with certain advantages over foreign and certain domestic competition including reduced shipping costs, improved customer service and shortened delivery times. Fabricated Wire Products and Industrial Wire. Our principal competitors in the fabricated wire products and industrial wire markets are Leggett and Platt, Deacero, Oklahoma Steel and Wire and Davis Wire Corporation. Competition in the fabricated wire products and industrial wire markets is based on a variety of factors, including distribution channels, price, delivery performance, product quality, service, and brand name preference. Our RED BRAND label has been a widely recognized brand name in the agricultural fencing and construction marketplaces for more than 80 years. Additionally, we believe higher transportation costs and the lack of local distribution centers tend to limit foreign producers' penetration of our principal fabricated wire products and industrial wire markets, but we do not know if this will continue to be the case. Welded Wire Reinforcement. Our principal competitors in our welded wire reinforcement markets are Insteel Wire Products, Inc., of Mount Airy, NC and MMI Products, Inc., of Houston, TX. We also face competition from smaller regional manufacturers and wholesalers of welded wire reinforcement products. We believe EWP’s superior products, renowned customer service and industry leading sales force distinguish EWP from its competitors. In addition, we believe our vertical integration enhances EWP’s ability to compete more effectively in the market as EWP can rely on a more stable supply of wire rod. Competitors of EWP have at times faced raw material shortages that have negatively impacted their daily production capability and delivery reliability. Coiled Rebar. The principal competitors for our assortment of coiled rebar include Gerdau Ameristeel, Rocky Mountain Steel, and Nucor Connecticut. The primary competitive factors of the coiled rebar business are delivered price, coil size and product quality. Due to our location, we believe we can effectively serve fabricators in the Midwestern region of the United States. Bars and Shapes. Our principal competitors for our bars and shapes business include Gerdau Ameristeel, Nucor and Alton Steel. The primary competitive factors are delivered price and the breadth of product within the production capability of the mill. Calumet’s mill location in Chicago Heights, Illinois is well suited to serve the bars and shapes market in the upper Midwest. Wire Rod and Billets. Since wire rod and billets are commodity steel products, we believe the market for these items is more competitive than the fabricated wire products and industrial wire markets, and price is the primary competitive factor. Among our principal domestic competitors in these markets are Gerdau Ameristeel and Rocky Mountain Steel. We also face significant foreign competition. The domestic steel industry continues to experience consolidation. During the last eight years, we and the majority of our major domestic competitors have either filed for protection under Federal bankruptcy laws and discontinued operations, were acquired, or reduced or completely shut-down their operations. We believe these shut-downs or production curtailments represent a significant decrease in estimated domestic annual capacity. However, worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry continues to exist and imports of wire rod in recent years have increased significantly. - 9 - - Environmental Matters Our production facilities are affected by a variety of environmental laws and regulations, including laws governing the discharge of water pollutants and air contaminants, the generation, transportation, storage, treatment and disposal of solid wastes and hazardous substances and the handling of toxic substances, including certain substances used in, or generated by, our manufacturing operations. Many of these laws and regulations require permits to operate the facilities to which they pertain. Denial, revocation, suspension or expiration of such permits could impair the ability of the affected facility to continue operations. We record liabilities related to environmental issues when information becomes available and is sufficient to support a reasonable estimate of a range of probable loss. If we are unable to determine that a single amount in an estimated range is more likely, the minimum amount of the range is recorded. We do not discount costs of future expenditures for environmental remediation obligations to their present value due to the uncertain timeframe of payout. Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from other parties are recorded as assets when their receipt is deemed probable. We believe our current operating facilities are in material compliance with all presently applicable federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Environmental legislation and regulations change rapidly and we may be subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future. Information in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference. Acquisition and Restructuring Activities We routinely compare our liquidity requirements against our estimated future cash flows. As a result of this process, we have in the past and may in the future seek to raise additional capital, refinance or restructure indebtedness, consider the sale of interests in subsidiaries, business units or other assets, or take a combination of such steps or other steps, to increase liquidity, reduce indebtedness and fund future activities. Such activities have in the past and may in the future involve related companies. From time to time, we and related entities also evaluate the restructuring of ownership interests among our subsidiaries and related companies and expect to continue this activity in the future and may in connection with such activities, consider issuing additional equity securities and increasing our indebtedness. Subscription Rights Offering In February 2008, we distributed at no charge to holders of our common stock non-transferable subscription rights to purchase an aggregate of 2.5 million shares of our common stock for a purchase price of $10.00 per share, or an aggregate of $25 million. For each share of common stock held by our stockholders of record on January 28, 2008, we distributed 0.25 of a subscription right. Each whole subscription right entitles the record holder of common stock to purchase one share of our common stock at a subscription price of $10.00. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We plan to use the net proceeds from the sale of the common stock pursuant to the subscription rights offering, if completed in full, to reduce indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. - 10 - - Acquisition and Amendment of Credit Facility During the first quarter of 2007, we formed Keystone-Calumet, Inc., which acquired substantially all of the real estate, equipment and inventory of CaluMetals, Inc. Through Calumet, we manufacture merchant and special bar quality products and special sections in carbon and alloy steel grades, offering a broad range of value added products for use in agricultural, cold drawn, construction, industrial chain, service centers and transportation applications. In connection with such acquisition, we also completed an amendment to our current credit facility during the first quarter of 2007, increasing the total committed facility amount from $80.0 million to $100.0 million, in part to finance the CaluMetals acquisition. See Notes 2 and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring Previously, Keystone Wire Products (“KWP”), located in Sherman, Texas, manufactured and sold industrial wire and fabricated wire products. Approximately 60% of KWP’s sales were to KSW in 2005 and 2006 and substantially all of KWP’s sales in 2007 were to KSW. During the third quarter of 2006, in an effort to reduce costs, we decided to relocate KWP’s industrial wire manufacturing operations to KSW. During the third quarter of 2007, in further efforts to reduce costs, we decided to discontinue all remaining manufacturing operations at KWP. The majority of KWP’s wire products production equipment were transferred to KSW or sold. The former KWP facility is now operated solely as a KSW distribution center. We do not anticipate any changes in our customer base as a result of this decision, as shipments that are distributed through the former KWP location are now recognized as KSW sales. Accordingly, KWP is now considered part of our KSW segment, and for comparability purposes we have combined KWP’s prior segment results with KSW’s segment results. We will continue to analyze the profitability of our operations and make operating decisions accordingly. Bankruptcy As previously reported, we emerged from bankruptcy protection on August 31, 2005. However, before the bankruptcy could be completely closed, all claims had to be dimissed, settled or fully adjudicated. As of December 31, 2006, only two significant claims had not been adjudicated: (i) an environmental claim against Sherman Wire Company (“SWC”), one of our pre-petition wholly-owned subsidiaries, and (ii) an employment related claim against KCI. During 2007, the final pending claim against KCI was settled and the final pending claim against SWC was fully adjudicated. As a result, all final distributions to our pre-petition unsecured creditors were made and we recognized an approximate $10.1 million gain on cancellation of debt related to such remaining claims. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Availability of Company Reports Filed with the SEC Our fiscal year is 52 or 53 weeks and ends on the last Sunday in December. We will provide without charge copies of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, any copies of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for 2007 and any Current Reports on Form 8-K for 2006 and 2007, and any amendments thereto, upon written request. Such requests should be directed to the attention of the Corporate Secretary at our address on the cover page of this Form 10-K. The general public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are an electronic filer, and the SEC maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including us. We do not maintain a company internet website. - 11 - - ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Listed below are certain risk factors associated with our businesses. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our publicly-traded securities. Our leverage may impair our financial condition or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We currently have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2007, our total consolidated debt was approximately $91.6 million. Our level of debt could have important consequences to our stockholders and creditors, including: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our liabilities; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less-leveraged competitors. We are subject to restrictive covenants and asset encumbrances under the terms of our revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility contains certain financial performance and other covenants, including covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and restricting our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness. Our ability to comply with such provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. If we are unable to comply with the facility’s financial or other restrictive covenants, there can be no assurance the lender would agree to any necessary amendments or waivers. Demand for, and prices of, certain of our products are cyclical and we may experience prolonged depressed market conditions for our products, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. A significant portion of our revenues are attributable to sales of products into the agricultural and construction industries. These two industries themselves are cyclical and changes in those industries’ economic conditions can significantly impact our earnings and operating cash flows. This may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Events that could adversely affect the agricultural and construction industries include, among other things, short and long-term weather patterns, interest rates and embargos placed by foreign countries on U.S. agricultural products. Such events could significantly decrease our operating results and our business and financial condition could significantly decline. - 12 - - We sell the majority of our products in mature and highly competitive industries and face price pressures in the markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. The markets in which we operate our businesses are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because the competitors’ costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors’ financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand negative changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the industries in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products. In addition, in some of our businesses new competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities so they could manufacture products that compete with our products. The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Many of EWP’s products are ultimately used in infrastructure projects by local, state or federal governments. Such projects are impacted by the availability of governmental funding for such projects. A decline in the availability of governmental funds for such projects could ultimately result in a decline in demand or selling prices of EWP’s products. Such a decline could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Wire rod imported into the U.S. continues at high levels. Global producers of wire rod are able to import their products into the U.S. with minimal tariffs and duties. Many of these global wire rod producers are able to produce wire rod at costs lower than we incur in our production. As such, these wire rod imports are often able to be priced at lower levels than similar products manufactured by us. In addition, we believe certain foreign governments subsidize their local wire rod producers. These events can adversely impact our shipment levels and pricing decisions and, as such, could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Higher costs or limited availability of ferrous scrap may decrease our liquidity. The number of sources for, and availability of, ferrous scrap, our primary raw material, is generally limited to the particular geographical region in which a facility is located. Should our suppliers not be able to meet their contractual obligations or if we are otherwise unable to obtain necessary ferrous scrap quantities, we may incur higher costs for ferrous scrap or may be required to reduce production levels, either of which may decrease our liquidity as we may be unable to offset such higher costs with increased selling prices for our products. Our relationships with our union employees could deteriorate. At December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 1,100 persons in our various businesses, of which approximately 70% are subject to collective bargaining or similar arrangements. All of these collective bargaining agreements are set to expire within the next two years. We may not be able to negotiate labor agreements with respect to these employees on satisfactory terms or at all. If our employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs. - 13 - - Our forecasted operating results for Calumet may not come to fruition. We acquired the operating assets used by Calumet in March 2007 and believe a steady supply of billets, an upgrade of production equipment and a more intense selling initiative will result in operating income at Calumet. Although we believe the expectations used in our forecasts for Calumet are reasonable, forecasts by their nature involve substantial uncertainties that could significantly impact results. Actual results could differ materially from forecast, resulting in operating losses at Calumet. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 