ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Listed below are certain risk factors associated with our businesses. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our publicly-traded securities. Our leverage may impair our financial condition or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We fund our operations primarily through cash from operations and borrowings on our revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility requires us to use our daily cash receipts to reduce outstanding borrowings, which results in us maintaining zero cash balances when there are balances outstanding under this credit facility. The amount of available borrowings under our revolving credit facility is based on formula-determined amounts of trade receivables and inventories. Our revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Additionally, the lender of our revolving credit facility can restrict our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness and can declare a default under the credit facility in the event of, among other things, a material adverse change in our business. Given the current negative conditions in the global credit markets, we may not be able to obtain the financing needed to fund our operations in the event that our current credit facility becomes unavailable to us. Our dependence on borrowing availability from our revolving credit facility could have important consequences to our stockholders and creditors, including: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our liabilities; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less-leveraged competitors. - 12 - - Demand for, and prices of, certain of our products are cyclical and we are currently operating in depressed market conditions, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. A significant portion of our revenues are attributable to sales of products into the agricultural and construction industries. These two industries themselves are cyclical and changes in those industries’ economic conditions can significantly impact our earnings and operating cash flows. Additionally, the current world-wide economic downturn has depressed sales volumes in the fourth quarter of 2008, and we are unable to predict with a high degree of certainty when demand will return to the levels experienced prior to the fourth quarter of 2008. Our operating results and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by, among other things, economic conditions, availability of credit to fund agricultural and construction projects, short and long-term weather patterns, interest rates and embargos placed by foreign countries on U.S. agricultural products. We sell the majority of our products in mature and highly competitive industries and face price pressures in the markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. The markets in which we operate our businesses are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because the competitors’ costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors’ financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand negative changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the industries in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products. In addition, in some of our businesses new competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities so they could manufacture products that compete with our products. The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Many of EWP’s products are ultimately used in infrastructure projects by local, state or federal governments. Such projects are impacted by the availability of governmental funding for such projects. A decline in the availability of governmental funds for such projects could ultimately result in a decline in demand or selling prices of EWP’s products. Such a decline could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Wire rod imported into the U.S. continues at high levels. Global producers of wire rod are able to import their products into the U.S. with minimal tariffs and duties. Many of these global wire rod producers are able to produce wire rod at costs lower than we incur in our production. As such, these wire rod imports are often able to be priced at lower levels than similar products manufactured by us. In addition, we believe certain foreign governments subsidize their local wire rod producers. These events can adversely impact our shipment levels and pricing decisions and, as such, could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. - 13 - - Higher costs or limited availability of ferrous scrap may decrease our liquidity. The cost of ferrous scrap, our primary raw material, can fluctuate significantly and product selling prices cannot always be adjusted, especially in the short-term, to recover the costs of increases in ferrous scrap prices. Additionally, the number of sources for, and availability of, ferrous scrap is generally limited to the particular geographical region in which a facility is located. Should our suppliers not be able to meet their contractual obligations or if we are otherwise unable to obtain necessary ferrous scrap quantities, we may incur higher costs for ferrous scrap. Negative global economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers' accounts receivable which would adversely affect our financial results. We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. Although we have an ongoing process of evaluating our customers' financial condition, we could suffer significant losses if a customer fails and is unable to pay us. A significant loss of an accounts receivable would have a negative impact on our financial results. Our relationships with our union employees could deteriorate. At December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 1,000 persons in our various businesses, of which approximately 76% are subject to collective bargaining or similar arrangements. Our collective bargaining agreements are set to expire in 2009. We may not be able to negotiate labor agreements with respect to these employees on satisfactory terms or at all. If our employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 