ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to important factors described elsewhere in this report, North American Galvanizing cautions current and potential investors that the following risk factors, among others, sometimes have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company’s actual results and could cause such results during fiscal 2009, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of North American Galvanizing. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and you may lose all of your investment. Galvanizing is a business sensitive to economic downturns, which could cause the Company’s revenues to decrease. NAGC is principally engaged in hot dip galvanizing of metal products and components fabricated by its customers. All of the Company’s revenue is generated from the value-added galvanizing and coating of its customer’s products. The galvanizing process provides effective corrosion protection of fabricated steel, which is used in numerous markets such as petrochemical, highway and transportation, energy, utilities, communications, irrigation, pulp and paper, waste water treatment, food processing, recreation and the manufacture of original equipment. The demand for these products and, in turn, for the Company’s galvanizing, is dependent on the general economy, the industries listed, and other factors affecting domestic goods activity. If there is a reduction in demand, there could be a material adverse effect on price levels, the quantity of galvanizing services provided by the Company and the Company’s revenues. The price volatility and availability of raw material and natural gas could reduce the Company’s profits. Purchased zinc and natural gas, combined, represent the largest portion of cost of goods sold. The price and availability of zinc and natural gas that is used in the galvanizing process is highly competitive and cyclical. The following factors, most of which are beyond the Company’s control, affect the price of zinc and natural gas: • supply and demand factors; • freight costs and transportation availability; • inventory levels; • trade duties and taxes; and • labor disputes. In response to increase in costs, the Company may seek to maintain its profit margin by attempting to increase the price of its services, but may not be successful in passing these price increases through to its customers. The Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be impacted by future acquisitions or by a lack of potential acquisition candidates. From time to time, the Company evaluates potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen its business. NAGC may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates, acquire candidates on acceptable terms or at all or integrate acquired businesses successfully. In addition, NAGC may be required to incur additional debt and contingent liabilities, or to issue shares of its common stock in order to consummate future acquisitions. Such issuances might have a dilutive effect on current equity holders. 6 Limited access to capital for internal growth and strategic acquisitions could adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The Company’s operating and market strategies to maintain competitive position and to develop new markets include investments in internal growth and strategic acquisitions. If the Company is unable to access capital through its current credit facility or raise capital, on favorable terms or at all, the Company may not be able to invest in internal growth and strategic acquisitions, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Difficulties in integrating potential acquisitions could adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The process of integrating acquired businesses effectively involves the following risks: • assimilating operations and products may be unexpectedly difficult; • management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; • the Company may enter markets in which it has limited or no direct experience; and • the Company may lose key employees of an acquired business. Difficulties in integrating potential acquisitions could adversely affect the Company’s business operating results and financial condition. The Company may not have sufficient management resources if there is turnover in key personnel. Providing a competitive service acceptable in quality and price requires a management team that is technically skilled in providing galvanizing services. In past years, the Company has downsized administrative and management positions as a result of cost-cutting initiatives. If there is turnover in key personnel, the Company may not have sufficient management resources. Lack of management resources could impact the Company’s ability to operate and compete in the galvanizing industry. The addition of hot dip galvanizing capacity could reduce demand for galvanizing services and adversely affect revenues. Galvanizing is a highly competitive business with relatively low barriers to entry. NAGC competes with other galvanizing companies, captive galvanizing facilities operated by manufacturers and alternate forms of corrosion protection such as paint. Excessive capacity in hot dip galvanizing could have a material adverse effect on price levels and the quantity of galvanized services provided by the Company. Various governmental regulations and environmental risks applicable to the galvanizing business may require the Company to take actions which will adversely affect its results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to numerous federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations with respect to air emissions, storm water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. Although NAGC believes it is in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and the presently unpredictable ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements could affect operations. The Company may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition. 7 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS No unresolved staff comments were open as of the date of this report, February 20, 2009. ITEM 