ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to important factors described elsewhere in this report, North American Galvanizing cautions current and potential investors that the following risk factors, among others, sometimes have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company’s actual results and could cause such results during fiscal 2008, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of North American Galvanizing. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and you may lose all of your investment. Galvanizing is a business sensitive to economic downturns, which could cause our revenues to decrease. NAGC is principally engaged in hot dip galvanizing of metal products and components fabricated by its customers. All of the Company’s revenue is generated from the value-added galvanizing and coating of its customer’s products. NAGC galvanizes iron and steel products by immersing them in molten zinc. This bonding process produces an alloyed metal surface that provides an effective barrier (“cathodic protection”) against oxidation and corrosion from exposure to the elements, for up to 50 years. The galvanizing process provides effective corrosion protection of fabricated steel which is used in numerous markets such as petrochemical, highway and transportation, energy, utilities, communications, irrigation, pulp and paper, waste water treatment, food processing, recreation and the manufacture of original equipment. The demand for these products and, in turn, for our galvanizing, is dependent on the general economy, the industries listed, and other factors affecting domestic goods activity. If there is a reduction in demand, there could be a material adverse effect on price levels, the quantity of galvanizing services provided by us and our revenues. The price volatility and availability of raw material and natural gas could reduce the Company’s profits. Purchased zinc and natural gas, combined, represent the largest portion of cost of goods sold. The price and availability of zinc and natural gas that is used in the galvanizing process is highly competitive and cyclical. The following factors, most of which are beyond the Company’s control, affect the price of zinc and natural gas: • supply and demand factors; • freight costs and transportation availability; • inventory levels; • trade duties and taxes; and • labor disputes. In response to increase in costs, the Company may seek to maintain its profit margin by attempting to increase the price of its services, but may not be successful in passing these price increases through to its customers. The Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be impacted by future acquisitions or by a lack of potential acquisition candidates. From time to time, the Company evaluates potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen its business. NAGC may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates, acquire candidates on acceptable terms or integrate acquired businesses successfully. In addition, NAGC may be required to incur additional debt and contingent liabilities, or to issue shares of its common stock in order to consummate future acquisitions. Such issuances might have a dilutive effect on current equity holders. 6 Difficulties in integrating potential acquisitions could adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The process of integrating acquired businesses effectively involves the following risks: • assimilating operations and products may be unexpectedly difficult; • management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; • the Company may enter markets in which it has limited or no direct experience; and • the Company may lose key employees of an acquired business. The Company may not have sufficient management resources if there is turnover in key personnel. Providing a competitive service acceptable in quality and price requires a management team that is technically skilled in providing galvanizing services. In past years, the Company has downsized administrative and management positions as a result of cost-cutting initiatives. Lack of management resources could impact the Company’s ability to operate and compete in the galvanizing industry. The addition of hot-dip galvanizing capacity could reduce demand for galvanizing services and adversely affect revenues. Galvanizing is a highly competitive business with relatively low barriers to entry. NAGC competes with other galvanizing companies, captive galvanizing facilities operated by manufacturers and alternate forms of corrosion protection such as paint. Excessive capacity in hot-dip galvanizing could have a material adverse effect on price levels and the quantity of galvanized services provided by the Company. Various governmental regulations and environmental risks applicable to the galvanizing business may require the Company to take actions which will adversely affect its results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to numerous federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations with respect to air emissions, storm water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. Although NAGC believes it is in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and the presently unpredictable ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements could affect operations. The Company may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition. North American Galvanizing & Coatings, Inc. is involved in a lawsuit concerning a former subsidiary’s operation of a storage terminal in violation of environmental laws. In 2004, attorneys for the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (the “Water District”) filed a complaint in District Court, naming North American Galvanizing & Coatings, Inc. as an added defendant. This Complaint seeks enforcement of an August 12, 2004 default judgment in the amount of $1,810,463.34 against a former subsidiary of the Company, Lake River Corporation and Lake River Holding Company, Inc. The default judgment is in connection with the operation of a storage terminal by Lake River Corporation in violation of environmental laws. The Complaint asserts that prior to the sale of Lake River Corporation, North American Galvanizing directly operated the Lake River facility. The Water District seeks to have the Court pierce the corporate veil of Lake River Corporation and enforce the default judgment order of August 12, 2004 against the Company. In December 2004, the Water District filed a Third Amended complaint in the litigation, adding two claims: (1) a common law claim for nuisance; and (2) a claim under the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, in which the Water District argues that the Company is responsible for conditions on the plaintiff’s property that present an “imminent and substantial endangerment to human health and the environment.” In January 2005, the Company filed a partial motion to dismiss the Third Amended Complaint. On April 12, 2005, the Court issued an order denying in part and granting in part the Company’s partial motion to dismiss plaintiff’s third amended complaint. The Company filed an appeal with the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals requesting dismissal of the sole CERCLA claim contained in the Third Amended 7 Complaint that was not dismissed by the United States District Court’s April 12, 2005 order. On January 17, 2007, the Seventh Circuit affirmed the judgment of the United States District Court, stating that the Water District has a right of action under CERCLA. On April 11, 2007, the Company entered into an Agreement in Principle establishing terms for a conditional settlement. Under the terms of the Agreement in Principle, the Company has agreed to fund 50% of the cost, up to $350,000, to enroll the site in the Illinois Voluntary Site Remediation Program. These funds will be used to prepare environmental reports for approval by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. The parties’ shared objective is to obtain a “no further remediation determination” from the Illinois EPA based on a commercial / industrial cleanup standard. If the cost to prepare these reports equals or exceeds $700,000, additional costs above $700,000 ($350,000 per party) will be borne 100% by the Water District. If a remediation plan is required based on the site assessment, the Company has also agreed to fund 50% of the cost to implement the remediation plan, up to a maximum of $1 million. If the cost to implement the plan is projected to exceed $2 million, then the Water District will have the option to terminate the Agreement in Principle and resume the litigation. The Water District will have to choose whether to accept or reject the $1 million funding commitment from the Company before accepting any payments from the Company for implementation of the remediation plan. The Company cannot determine whether any cleanup is required or if any final cleanup cost is likely to exceed $2 million until additional data has been collected and analyzed in connection with the environmental reports. If the Water District elects to accept the maximum funding commitment, the Company has also agreed to remove certain piping and other equipment from one of the parcels. The cost to remove the piping is estimated to be between $35,000 and $60,000. Although the boards of both the Water District and the Company have approved the Agreement in Principle, the agreement of the parties must be embodied in a formal settlement agreement. The parties have been working diligently since April 11, 2007 but have not yet reached a final agreement. The Company has recorded a liability for $350,000 related to the Water District claim in recognition of its currently known and estimable funding commitment under the Agreement in Principle. In the event that the Water District rejects the funding commitment described above, the potential claim could exceed the amount of the previous default judgment. As neither a site evaluation nor a remediation plan has been developed, the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate of the amount or range of further loss, if any, that could result. Such a liability, if any, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS No unresolved staff comments were open as of the date of this report, March 7, 2008. ITEM 