Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the Company, as its businesses, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The following discussion does not attempt to cover factors, such as trends in the national economy or the level of interest rates among others, that are likely to affect most businesses. The Inland Waterway infrastructure is aging and may result in increased costs and disruptions to the Company’s marine transportation segment. Maintenance of the United States inland waterway system is vital to the Company’s operations. The system is composed of over 12,000 miles of commercially navigable waterway, supported by over 170 locks and dams designed to provide flood control, maintain pool levels of water in certain areas of the country and facilitate navigation on the inland river system. The United States inland waterway infrastructure is aging, with more than half of the locks over 50 years old. As a result, due to the age of the locks, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance outages may be more frequent in nature, resulting in delays and additional operating expenses. One-half of the cost of new construction and major rehabilitation of locks and dams is paid by marine transportation companies through a 20 cent per gallon diesel fuel tax and the remaining 50% is paid from general federal tax revenue. Failure of the federal government to adequately fund infrastructure maintenance and improvements in the future would have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to deliver products for its customers on a timely basis. In addition, any additional user taxes that may be imposed in the future to fund infrastructure improvements would increase the Company’s operating expenses. The Company is subject to adverse weather conditions in its marine transportation business. The Company’s marine transportation segment is subject to weather conditions on a daily basis. Adverse weather conditions such as high water, low water, fog and ice, tropical storms and hurricanes can impair the operating efficiencies of the marine fleet. Such adverse weather conditions can cause a delay, diversion or postponement of shipments of products and are totally beyond the control of the Company. In addition, adverse water conditions can negatively affect towboat speed, tow size, loading drafts, fleet efficiency, place limitations on night passages and dictate horsepower requirements. The Company experienced unusually favorable weather conditions during 2006, with delays 18 Table of Contents resulting from weather conditions for all four quarters at lower levels than in 2005. During the 2006 first quarter, the Company did not experience the high water conditions on the Ohio, Illinois and lower Mississippi River and fog conditions along the Gulf Coast that existed in January and February 2005, negatively impacting the 2005 first quarter results. The 2006 year was relatively free of Gulf Coast hurricanes and tropical storms, unlike the 2005 year when Hurricanes Katrina and Rita negatively impacted the 2005 third quarter by an estimated $.05 per share, as petrochemical and refinery facilities located in the paths or projected paths of the hurricanes shut down operations in advance of the storms, waterways in the affected areas were closed and the Company moved its equipment out of the path of the hurricanes. The Company could be adversely impacted by a marine accident or spill event. A marine accident or spill event could close a portion of the inland waterway system for a period of time. Although statistically marine transportation is the safest means of transporting bulk commodities, accidents do occur, both involving Company equipment and equipment owned by other inland marine carriers. For example, in the 2005 first quarter, an accident involving several dry-cargo barges and towboat owned by another company at the Belleville Lock, located on the upper Ohio River, resulted in the closure of the lock for approximately two weeks, preventing any movements of marine equipment into or out of the upper Ohio River. The Company transports a wide variety of petrochemicals, black oil products, refined petroleum products and agricultural chemicals throughout the Mississippi River System and along the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway. The Company manages its exposure to losses from potential discharges of pollutants through the use of well maintained and equipped vessels, through safety, training and environmental programs, and the Company’s insurance program, but a discharge of pollutants by the Company could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s marine transportation segment is dependent on its ability to adequately crew its towboats. The Company’s towboats are crewed with employees who are licensed or certified by the USCG, including its captains, pilots, engineers and tankermen. The success of the Company’s marine transportation segment is dependent on the Company’s ability to adequately crew its towboats. As a result, the Company expends significant dollars in training its crews and providing each crew member an opportunity to advance from a deckhand to the captain of a Company towboat. Lifestyle issues are a deterrent for employment as crew members are required to work a 20 days on, 10 days off rotation, or a 30 days on, 15 days off rotation. The success of the Company’s marine transportation segment will depend on its ability to adequately crew its towboats. During 2005 and 2006, high United States employment, coupled with Hurricanes Katrina and Rita that displaced labor and created reconstruction job opportunities in the oil service and construction industries along the Gulf Coast, made for a tight Gulf Coast labor market. As a result, the Company during 2006, as well as the Company’s charter boat operators, experienced vessel personnel shortages. During 2006, the Company stepped up its recruiting and training of vessel personnel and addressed the vessel personnel pay scales in an effort to recruit new vessel personnel, and retain and promote existing vessel personnel. Reduction in the number of acquisitions made by the Company may curtail future growth. Since 1987, the Company has been successful in the integration of 25 acquisitions in its marine transportation segment and 13 acquisitions in its diesel engine services segment, including two in February 2007. Acquisitions have played a significant part in the growth of the Company. The Company’s marine transportation revenue in 1987 was $40.2 million compared with $807.2 million in 2006. Diesel engine services revenue in 1987 was $7.1 million compared with $177.0 million in 2006. While the Company is of the opinion that future acquisition opportunities exist in both its marine transportation and diesel engine services segments, the Company may not be able to continue to grow through acquisitions to the extent that it has in the past. The Company’s marine transportation segment is subject to the Jones Act. The Company’s marine transportation segment competes principally in markets subject to the Jones Act, a federal cabotage law that restricts domestic marine transportation in the United States to vessels built and registered in the United States, and manned and owned by United States citizens. The Company presently meets all of the requirements of the Jones Act for its owned vessels. The loss of Jones Act status could have a significant negative effect on the Company. The requirements that the Company’s vessels be United States built and manned by United States citizens, the crewing requirements and material requirements of the USCG, and the application of United States labor and tax laws significantly increase the cost of United States flag vessels when compared with comparable foreign flag vessels. 19 Table of Contents The Company’s business could be adversely affected if the Jones Act were to be modified so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same United States government imposed burdens. Since the events of September 11, 2001, the United States government has taken steps to increase security of United States ports, coastal waters and inland waterways. The Company feels that it is unlikely that the current cabotage provisions of the Jones Act would be modified or eliminated in the foreseeable future. The Company’s marine transportation segment is subject to regulation by the USCG, federal laws, state laws and certain international conventions, as well as numerous environmental regulations. The majority of the Company’s vessels are subject to inspection by the USCG and carry certificates of inspection. The crews employed by the Company aboard vessels are licensed or certified by the USCG. The Company is required by various governmental agencies to obtain licenses, certificates and permits for its vessels. The Company’s operations are also affected by various United States and state regulations and legislation enacted for protection of the environment. The Company incurs significant expenses to comply with applicable laws and regulations and any significant new regulation or legislation could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s marine transportation segment is subject to volatility in the United States production of petrochemicals. For 2006, 67% of the segment’s revenues were from the movement of petrochemicals, including the movement of raw materials and feedstocks from one refinery and petrochemical plant to another, as well as the movement of finished products. Increased imports of petrochemicals manufactured in foreign countries could negatively impact United States domestic petrochemical production, thereby reducing the volumes of petrochemicals transported by the Company. The Company’s marine transportation segment could be adversely impacted by the construction of inland tank barges by its competitors. At the present time, there are approximately 2,850 inland tank barges operating in the United States, of which the Company operates 904, or 32%. The number of inland tank barges peaked at approximately 4,200 in the early 1980s, but has been relatively constant since the early 1990s, fluctuating between 2,750 and 2,900. During that period of time, new barge construction has approximately equaled retirements. For 2006, orders were placed for the construction of approximately 110 tank barges, 91 were delivered in 2006, and an estimated 100 were retired. In addition, of the approximate 2,850 inland tank barges, approximately 400 are between 30 to 35 years old and 450 are over 35 years old. While the Company believes that shipyard capacity, the age of the domestic tank barge fleet and government regulation of the industry, among other factors, will prevent overbuilding of inland tank barges in the near future, sustained favorable market conditions could stimulate new construction and in the longer term, an oversupply of barges could exist following periods of strong demand for barge transportation. Higher fuel prices could increase operating expenses. The cost of fuel during 2006 was approximately 13% of marine transportation revenue, as the Company consumed 53.1 million gallons of diesel fuel at an average price of $1.93 per gallon. Marine transportation term contracts contain fuel escalation clauses that allow the Company to recover increases in the cost of fuel; however, there is generally a 30 to 90 day delay before contracts are adjusted. Spot contract rates generally reflect current fuel prices at the time the contract was signed. The Company is generally able to pass along to its customers a significant portion of an increase or decrease in diesel fuel prices; however, consistently higher fuel prices could result in increased operating expenses during the period of fuel escalation. Loss of a large customer or other significant business relationship could adversely affect the Company. Two marine transportation customers, SeaRiver and Dow, account for approximately 23% of the Company’s 2006 revenue. Although the Company considers its relationships with SeaRiver and Dow to be strong, the loss of either customer could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s diesel engine services segment has a 41 – year relationship with EMD, the manufacturer of medium-speed diesel engines. The Company serves as both an EMD distributor and service center for select markets and locations for both service and parts. Sales and service of EMD products account for approximately 5% of the Company’s revenue. Although the Company considers its relationship with EMD to be strong, the loss of the EMD distributorship and service rights, or a disruption of the supply of EMD parts, could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to service its customers. The Company is subject to competition in both its marine transportation and diesel engine services businesses. The inland tank barge industry remains very competitive despite continued consolidation. The Company’s primary 20 Table of Contents competitors are noncaptive inland tank barge operators. The Company also competes with companies which transport liquid products by refined product and petrochemical pipelines, railroad tank cars and tractor-trailer tank trucks. Increased competition from any significant expansion of or additions to facilities or equipment by the Company’s competitors could have a negative impact on the Company’s results. The diesel engine services industry is also very competitive. The segment’s primary marine competitors are independent diesel services companies and other factory-authorized distributors, authorized service centers and authorized marine dealers. Certain operators of diesel powered marine equipment also elect to maintain in-house service capabilities. In the power generation and railroad fields, the primary competitors are other independent service companies. Increased competition in the diesel engine services industry could result in lower rates for service and parts pricing and result in less service and repair opportunities and parts sales. The construction cost of inland tank barges and towboats has increased significantly over the last few years primarily due to the escalating price of steel. The price of steel has increased significantly over the last few years, thereby increasing the construction cost of new tank barges and towboats. The Company’s average construction price of a new 30,000 barrel capacity inland tank barge in 2006 was approximately 32% higher than in 2004, primarily due to the increase in steel prices. If steel prices continue to increase, it may limit the Company’s ability to earn an adequate return on its investment in new tank barges and towboats. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 