Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the Company, as its businesses, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The following discussion does not attempt to cover factors, such as trends in the United States and global economies or the level of interest rates among others, that are likely to affect most businesses. The Inland Waterway infrastructure is aging and may result in increased costs and disruptions to the Company’s marine transportation segment. Maintenance of the United States inland waterway system is vital to the Company’s operations. The system is composed of over 12,000 miles of commercially navigable waterway, supported by over 240 locks and dams designed to provide flood control, maintain pool levels of water in certain areas of the country and facilitate navigation on the inland river system. The United States inland waterway infrastructure is aging, with more than half of the locks over 50 years old. As a result, due to the age of the locks, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance outages may be more frequent in nature, resulting in delays and additional operating expenses. One-half of the cost of new construction and major rehabilitation of locks and dams is paid by marine transportation companies through a 20 cent per gallon diesel fuel tax and the remaining 50% is paid from 18 Table of Contents general federal tax revenue. Failure of the federal government to adequately fund infrastructure maintenance and improvements in the future would have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to deliver products for its customers on a timely basis. In addition, any additional user taxes that may be imposed in the future to fund infrastructure improvements would increase the Company’s operating expenses. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was signed on February 17, 2009 and included $4.6 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers, which is responsible for construction and maintenance of the United States’ inland waterways infrastructure. The funds will be split among construction, operations and maintenance and other budget areas. To the extent the funds are spent on inland navigation construction projects, there is no requirement for fund matching from the fuel tax supported inland waterway trust fund. Congress did not specify how the funds should be split among the various business lines of the Army Corps of Engineers, so it is uncertain how much of these funds will be directed to inland waterways projects. Additionally, Congress designated $142,000,000 for the Truman Hobbs program, which funds the alteration or replacement of bridges that have been found to be an unreasonable obstruction to navigation. This is a significant increase over the normal annual funding for this program and should allow a number of bridges that have been ongoing impediments to navigation to be replaced. The USCG, which administers this program, has been directed to provide a plan to Congress within 45 days detailing how these funds are to be spent. The Company is subject to adverse weather conditions in its marine transportation business. The Company’s marine transportation segment is subject to weather conditions on a daily basis. Adverse weather conditions such as high water, low water, fog and ice, tropical storms and hurricanes can impair the operating efficiencies of the marine fleet. Such adverse weather conditions can cause a delay, diversion or postponement of shipments of products and are totally beyond the control of the Company. In addition, adverse water conditions can negatively affect towboat speed, tow size, loading drafts, fleet efficiency, place limitations on night passages and dictate horsepower requirements. During 2008, the Company experienced high water conditions throughout the Mississippi River System during the majority of the second quarter and Hurricanes Gustav and Ike negatively impacted the 2008 third quarter by an estimated $.09 per share. The Company experienced normal weather conditions and water levels during 2007 compared with unusually favorable weather conditions and water levels during 2006, with delays resulting from weather conditions and water levels for all four 2007 year quarters at higher levels than in 2006. The Company’s operations for 2007 and 2006 were not materially affected by Gulf Coast hurricanes and tropical storms. The Company could be adversely impacted by a marine accident or spill event. A marine accident or spill event could close a portion of the inland waterway system for a period of time. Although statistically marine transportation is the safest means of transporting bulk commodities, accidents do occur, both involving Company equipment and equipment owned by other inland marine carriers. For example, in July 2008, an accident on the lower Mississippi River involving a tanker and a towboat and tank barges owned by another company resulted in the closure of the river in the New Orleans area for numerous days, preventing any movements of marine equipment through the impacted area of the river. The Company transports a wide variety of petrochemicals, black oil products, refined petroleum products and agricultural chemicals throughout the Mississippi River System and along the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway. The Company manages its exposure to losses from potential discharges of pollutants through the use of well maintained and equipped vessels, through safety, training and environmental programs, and the Company’s insurance program, but a discharge of pollutants by the Company could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s marine transportation segment is dependent on its ability to adequately crew its towboats. The Company’s towboats are crewed with employees who are licensed or certified by the USCG, including its captains, pilots, engineers and tankermen. The success of the Company’s marine transportation segment is dependent on the Company’s ability to adequately crew its towboats. As a result, the Company invests significant resources in training its crews and providing each crew member an opportunity to advance from a deckhand to the captain of a Company towboat. Lifestyle issues are a deterrent for employment as crew members are required to work a 20 days on, 10 days off rotation, or a 30 days on, 15 days off rotation. The success of the Company’s marine transportation segment will depend on its ability to adequately crew its towboats. During 2006 and 2007, high United States employment, coupled with 2005 third quarter Hurricanes Katrina and Rita that displaced labor and created reconstruction job opportunities in the oil service and construction 19 Table of Contents industries along the Gulf Coast, made for a tight Gulf Coast labor market. As a result, the Company during 2006 and 2007, as well as the Company’s charter boat operators, experienced vessel personnel shortages. During 2006 and 2007, the Company stepped up its recruiting and training of vessel personnel and addressed the vessel personnel pay scales in an effort to recruit new vessel personnel, and retain and promote existing vessel personnel. The Company’s crewing levels returned to pre-hurricane levels during the 2007 third quarter and remained adequate during 2008. Reduction in the number of acquisitions made by the Company may curtail future growth. Since 1987, the Company has been successful in the integration of 25 acquisitions in its marine transportation segment and 15 acquisitions in its diesel engine services segment. Acquisitions have played a significant part in the growth of the Company. The Company’s marine transportation revenue in 1987 was $40.2 million compared with $1.095 billion in 2008. Diesel engine services revenue in 1987 was $7.1 million compared with $264.7 million in 2008. While the Company is of the opinion that future acquisition opportunities exist in both its marine transportation and diesel engine services segments, the Company may not be able to continue to grow through acquisitions to the extent that it has in the past. The Company’s marine transportation segment is subject to the Jones Act. The Company’s marine transportation segment competes principally in markets subject to the Jones Act, a federal cabotage law that restricts domestic marine transportation in the United States to vessels built and registered in the United States, and manned and owned by United States citizens. The Company presently meets all of the requirements of the Jones Act for its owned vessels. The loss of Jones Act status could have a significant negative effect on the Company. The requirements that the Company’s vessels be United States built and manned by United States citizens, the crewing requirements and material requirements of the USCG, and the application of United States labor and tax laws significantly increase the cost of United States flag vessels when compared with comparable foreign flag vessels. The Company’s business could be adversely affected if the Jones Act were to be modified so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same United States government imposed burdens. Since the events of September 11, 2001, the United States government has taken steps to increase security of United States ports, coastal waters and inland waterways. The Company feels that it is unlikely that the current cabotage provisions of the Jones Act would be modified or eliminated in the foreseeable future. The Company’s marine transportation segment is subject to regulation by the USCG, federal laws, state laws and certain international conventions, as well as numerous environmental regulations. The majority of the Company’s vessels are subject to inspection by the USCG and carry certificates of inspection. The crews employed by the Company aboard vessels are licensed or certified by the USCG. The Company is required by various governmental agencies to obtain licenses, certificates and permits for its vessels. The Company’s operations are also affected by various United States and state regulations and legislation enacted for protection of the environment. The Company incurs significant expenses to comply with applicable laws and regulations and any significant new regulation or legislation could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s marine transportation segment is subject to volatility in the United States production of petrochemicals. For 2008, 67% of marine transportation segment’s revenues were from the movement of petrochemicals, including the movement of raw materials and feedstocks from one refinery and petrochemical plant to another, as well as the movement of more finished products to end users. A weaker United States and global economy during 2008 resulted in lower worldwide consumer spending, as well as lower exports of petrochemicals which reduced the volumes of petrochemicals transported by the Company. A weaker economy could also impact the Company’s collectability of certain customers’ trade receivables which could have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations. During the 2008 fourth quarter, the Company increased its allowance for doubtful accounts by $6,000,000 before taxes, or $.07 per share. The Company’s marine transportation segment could be adversely impacted by the construction of inland tank barges by its competitors. At the present time, there are approximately 3,050 inland tank barges in the United States, of which the Company operates 914, or 30%. The number of tank barges peaked at approximately 4,200 in early 1980s, slowly declined to approximately 2,750 in 2003 and with the favorable market conditions over recent years has gradually increased to approximately 3,050 in late 2008. The Company believes that 137 new tank barges in 2007 and 215 in 2008 were delivered and placed in service, with an estimated 80 tank barges in 2007 and 80 to 100 in 2008 retired. During 2007 and the first nine months of 2008, strong tank barge transportation markets 20 Table of Contents absorbed the additional capacity built by the industry. During the first nine months of 2008 and prior to the deterioration of the marine transportation markets in the 2008 fourth quarter, the Company and many competitors signed tank barge construction contracts with shipyards for 2009 deliveries. With the deteriorating economic conditions, financing of the barges may be difficult for certain operators and certain equipment scheduled for major maintenance may be idled. Also decreasing the risk of an oversupply of barges is the fact that the tank barge industry has a mature fleet, with approximately 925 tank barges over 30 years old and 500 of those over 35 years old, which may lead to early retirement of some older tank barges. Higher fuel prices could increase operating expenses. The cost of fuel during 2008 was approximately 15% of marine transportation revenue, as the Company consumed 48.5 million gallons of diesel fuel at an average price of $3.21 per gallon. All marine transportation term contracts contain fuel escalation clauses. However, there is generally a 30 to 90 day delay before contracts are adjusted depending on the specific contract. In general, the escalation clauses are effective over the long-term in allowing the Company to recover changes in fuel costs due to fuel price changes; however, the short-term effectiveness of the fuel escalation clauses can be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, specific terms of the fuel escalation formulas, fuel price volatility, navigating conditions, tow sizes, trip routing, and the location of loading and discharge ports that may result in the Company over or under recovering its fuel costs. Spot contract rates generally reflect current fuel prices at the time the contract is signed but do not have escalators for fuel. Loss of a large customer or other significant business relationship could adversely affect the Company. Two marine transportation customers, SeaRiver and Dow, account for approximately 19% of the Company’s 2008 revenue. Although the Company considers its relationships with SeaRiver and Dow to be strong, the loss of either customer could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s diesel engine services segment has a 43-year relationship with EMD, the manufacturer of medium-speed diesel engines. The Company serves as both an EMD distributor and service center for select markets and locations for both service and parts. Sales and service of EMD products account for approximately 4% of the Company’s revenue. Although the Company considers its relationship with EMD to be strong, the loss of the EMD distributorship and service rights, or a disruption of the supply of EMD parts, could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to service its customers. The Company is subject to competition in both its marine transportation and diesel engine services businesses. The inland tank barge industry remains very competitive despite continued consolidation. The Company’s primary competitors are noncaptive inland tank barge operators. The Company also competes with companies who operate refined product and petrochemical pipelines, railroad tank cars and tractor-trailer tank trucks. Increased competition from any significant expansion of or additions to facilities or equipment by the Company’s competitors could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The diesel engine services industry is also very competitive. The segment’s primary marine competitors are independent diesel services companies and other factory-authorized distributors, authorized service centers and authorized marine dealers. Certain operators of diesel powered marine equipment also elect to maintain in-house service capabilities. In the power generation and railroad markets, the primary competitors are other independent service companies. Increased competition in the diesel engine services industry could result in lower rates for service and parts pricing and result in less service and repair opportunities and parts sales. The construction cost of inland tank barges and towboats has increased significantly over the last few years primarily due to the escalating price of steel. The price of steel has increased significantly over the last few years, thereby increasing the construction cost of new tank barges and towboats. The Company’s average construction price of a new 30,000 barrel capacity inland tank barge in 2009 is expected to be approximately 90% higher than in 2000, primarily due to the increase in steel prices. While the price of steel declined in late 2008 and early 2009 due to the deteriorating United States and global economic environment, an increase in steel prices may limit the Company’s ability to earn an adequate return on its investment in new tank barges and towboats. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 21 Table of Contents 