Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the Company, as its businesses, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The following discussion does not attempt to cover factors, such as trends in the United States and global economies or the level of interest rates, among others, that are likely to affect most businesses. The Inland Waterway infrastructure is aging and may result in increased costs and disruptions to the Company’s marine transportation segment. Maintenance of the United States inland waterway system is vital to the Company’s operations. The system is composed of over 12,000 miles of commercially navigable waterway, supported by over 240 locks and dams designed to provide flood control, maintain pool levels of water in certain areas of the country and facilitate navigation on the inland river system. The United States inland waterway infrastructure is aging, with more than half of the locks over 50 years old. As a result, due to the age of the locks, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance outages may be more frequent in nature, resulting in delays and additional operating expenses. One-half of the cost of new construction and major rehabilitation of locks and dams is paid by marine transportation companies through a 20 cent per gallon diesel fuel tax and the remaining 50% is paid from general federal tax revenues. Failure of the federal government to adequately fund infrastructure maintenance and improvements in the future would have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to deliver products for its customers on a timely basis. In addition, any additional user taxes that may be imposed in the future to fund infrastructure improvements would increase the Company’s operating expenses. The Company is subject to adverse weather conditions in its marine transportation segment. The Company’s marine transportation segment is subject to weather conditions on a daily basis. Adverse weather conditions such as high or low water on the inland waterway systems, fog and ice, tropical storms, hurricanes and tsunamis on both the inland waterway systems and throughout the United States coastal waters can impair the operating efficiencies of the marine fleet. Such adverse weather conditions can cause a delay, diversion or postponement of shipments of products and are totally beyond the control of the Company. In addition, adverse water and weather conditions can negatively affect a towing vessel’s performance, tow size, loading drafts, fleet efficiency, place limitations on night passages and dictate horsepower requirements. During the 2011 second quarter, high water and flooding throughout the Mississippi River System and along the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway near Morgan City negatively impacted the quarter by an estimated $.07 per share. During 2010 and 2009, the Company experienced more favorable weather conditions and water levels. The Company’s operations for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were not materially affected by Gulf Coast hurricanes and tropical storms. The Company could be adversely impacted by a marine accident or spill event. A marine accident or spill event could close a portion of the inland waterway system or a coastal area of the United States for a period of time. Although statistically marine transportation is the safest means of transporting bulk commodities, accidents do occur, both involving Company equipment and equipment owned by other marine carriers. The Company transports a wide variety of petrochemicals, black oil products, refined petroleum products and agricultural chemicals throughout the Mississippi River System, the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway and along all three United States coasts and in Alaska and Hawaii. The Company manages its exposure to losses from potential discharges of pollutants through the use of well maintained and equipped tank barges and towing vessels, through safety, training and environmental programs, and through the Company’s insurance program, but a discharge of pollutants by the Company could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s marine transportation segment is dependent on its ability to adequately crew its towing vessels. The Company’s towing vessels are crewed with employees who are licensed or certified by the USCG, including its captains, pilots, engineers and tankermen. The success of the Company’s marine transportation segment is dependent on the Company’s ability to adequately crew its towing vessels. As a result, the Company invests significant resources in training its crews and providing crew members an opportunity to advance from a deckhand to the captain of a Company towboat or tugboat, or on the coastal tugboats from a deckhand to the chief engineer. Lifestyle issues are a deterrent for employment for inland and coastal crew members. Inland 25 Table of Contents crew members generally work a 20 days on, 10 days off rotation, or a 30 days on, 15 days off rotation. For the coastal fleet, crew members are generally required to work a 14 days on, 14 days off, 21 days on, 21 days off or 30 days on, 30 days off rotation, dependent upon the location. With the rising unemployment rates during 2008 and 2009 and continued high unemployment rates during 2010 and 2011 associated with the economic recession, crewing levels have remained adequate. The Company’s coastal marine transportation business is composed of employees subject to collective bargaining agreements in certain geographic areas. Any work stoppages or labor disturbances could disrupt business in those areas. Approximately 300 of K-Sea’s seagoing personnel were employed under one contract with a division of the ILA that expired on June 30, 2011. An election was held as a result of a separate union petitioning the NLRB for a decertification of the ILA representation and the establishment of an alternative union, the Richmond Terrace Bargaining Unit. On February 10, 2012, the eligible employees voted to certify the Richmond Terrace Bargaining Unit as representative of the employees formerly represented by the ILA. As of February 21, 2012, the union election results are pending certification by the NLRB. Reduction in the number of acquisitions made by the Company may curtail future growth. Since 1987, the Company has been successful in the integration of 29 acquisitions in its marine transportation segment and 16 acquisitions in its diesel engine services segment. Acquisitions have played a significant part in the growth of the Company. The Company’s marine transportation revenue in 1987 was $40.2 million compared with $1.2 billion in 2011. Diesel engine services revenue in 1987 was $7.1 million compared with $655.8 million in 2011. While the Company is of the opinion that future acquisition opportunities exist in both its marine transportation and diesel engine services segments, the Company may not be able to continue to grow through acquisitions to the extent that it has in the past. The Company’s failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) could have a negative impact on its ongoing operations. The Company’s operations outside the United States require the Company to comply with a number of United States and international regulations. For example, its operations in countries outside the United States are subject to the FCPA, which prohibits United States companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity, or obtain any unfair advantage. The Company has internal control policies and procedures and has implemented training and compliance programs for its employees and agents with respect to the FCPA. However, the Company’s policies, procedures and programs may not always protect it from reckless or criminal acts committed by its employees or agents, and severe criminal or civil sanctions would be the result of violations of the FCPA. The Company is also subject to the risks that its employees, joint venture partners, and agents outside of the United States may fail to comply with other applicable laws. The Company’s marine transportation segment is subject to the Jones Act. The Company’s marine transportation segment competes principally in markets subject to the Jones Act, a federal cabotage law that restricts domestic marine transportation in the United States to vessels built and registered in the United States, and manned and owned by United States citizens. The Company presently meets all of the requirements of the Jones Act for its owned vessels. The loss of Jones Act status could have a significant negative effect on the Company. The requirements that the Company’s vessels be United States built and manned by United States citizens, the crewing requirements and material requirements of the USCG, and the application of United States labor and tax laws increases the cost of United States flag vessels when compared with comparable foreign flag vessels. The Company’s business could be adversely affected if the Jones Act were to be modified so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same United States government imposed burdens. Since the events of September 11, 2001, the United States government has taken steps to increase security of United States ports, coastal waters and inland waterways. The Company feels that it is unlikely that the current cabotage provisions of the Jones Act would be modified or eliminated in the foreseeable future. The Secretary of Homeland Security is vested with the authority and discretion to waive the Jones Act to such extent and upon such terms as she may prescribe whenever she deems that such action is necessary in the interest of national defense. In response to the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the Secretary of Homeland 26 Table of Contents Security waived the Jones Act generally for the transportation of petroleum products from September 1 to September 19, 2005 and from September 26, 2005 to October 24, 2005. In June 2011, the Secretary of Homeland Security waived the Jones Act for the transportation of petroleum released from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Continued waiver of the Jones Act, whether in response to natural disasters or otherwise, could result in increased competition from foreign tank vessel operators, which could negatively impact the marine transportation segment. The Company’s marine transportation segment is subject to regulation by the USCG, federal laws, state laws and certain international conventions, as well as numerous environmental regulations. The majority of the Company’s vessels are subject to inspection by the USCG and carry certificates of inspection. The crews employed by the Company aboard vessels are licensed or certified by the USCG. The Company is required by various governmental agencies to obtain licenses, certificates and permits for its vessels. The Company’s operations are also affected by various United States and state regulations and legislation enacted for protection of the environment. The Company incurs significant expenses to comply with applicable laws and regulations and any significant new regulation or legislation, including climate change laws or regulations, could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company is subject to risks associated with possible climate change legislation, regulation and international accords. Greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of a large amount of international, national, regional, state and local attention. On December 7, 2009, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) furthered its focus on greenhouse gas emissions when it issued its endangerment finding in response to a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. The EPA found that the emission of six greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (which is emitted from the combustion of fossil fuels), may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health and welfare. Based on this finding, the EPA defined the mix of these six greenhouse gases to be “air pollution” subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act. Although the EPA has stated a preference that greenhouse gas regulation be based on new federal legislation rather than the existing Clean Air Act, many sources of greenhouse gas emissions may be regulated without the need for further legislation. The United States Congress has considered in the past legislation that would create an economy-wide “cap-and-trade” system that would establish a limit (or cap) on overall greenhouse gas emissions and create a market for the purchase and sale of emissions permits or “allowances.” Any proposed cap-and-trade legislation would likely affect the chemical industry due to anticipated increases in energy costs as fuel providers pass on the cost of the emissions allowances, which they would be required to obtain under cap-and-trade to cover the emissions from fuel production and the eventual use of fuel by the Company or its energy suppliers. In addition, cap-and-trade proposals would likely increase the cost of energy, including purchases of diesel fuel, steam and electricity, and certain raw materials used or transported by the Company. Proposed domestic and international cap-and-trade systems could materially increase raw material and operating costs of the Company’s customer base. Future environmental regulatory developments related to climate change in the United States that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could result in financial impacts on the Company’s operations that cannot be predicted with certainty at this time. The Company’s marine transportation segment is subject to volatility in the United States production of petrochemicals. For 2011, 59% of the marine transportation segment’s revenues were from the movement of petrochemicals, including the movement of raw materials and feedstocks from one refinery and petrochemical plant to another, as well as the movement of more finished products to end users and terminals for export. During 2011, petrochemical volumes continued to improve compared with 2010 and 2009 primarily due to lower priced domestic natural gas that improved the competitiveness of the United States petrochemical industry in global markets, thereby producing increased marine transportation volumes for basic petrochemicals to both domestic consumers and terminals for export destinations. This improvement in volumes was partially offset by the continued generally weak United States economy. Higher natural gas prices and other factors could negatively impact the United States petrochemical industry and its production volumes, which would negatively impact the Company. 27 Table of Contents The Company’s marine transportation segment could be adversely impacted by the construction of tank barges by its competitors. At the present time, there are an estimated 3,100 inland tank barges in the United States, of which the Company operates 819, or 26%. The number of tank barges peaked at an estimated 4,200 in 1982, slowly declined to 2,750 by 2003, and with the favorable market conditions through the first nine months of 2008 gradually increased to 3,150 by late 2009 and currently stands at an estimated 3,100. Strong tank barge transportation markets in 2006, 2007 and through the first nine months of 2008 absorbed the additional capacity built by the industry. During 2007 and the first nine months of 2008, prior to the deterioration of the marine transportation markets in the 2008 fourth quarter, the Company and many competitors signed tank barge construction contracts with shipyards for 2009 deliveries. The Company believes that 192 tank barges were delivered and placed in service during 2009, of which 50, including seven new chartered barges, were for the Company, and an estimated 140 tank barges were retired, 101 of which were the Company’s. The Company estimates that 160 tank barges were placed in service during 2011, of which 40 were for the Company, and an estimated 100 to 125 were retired, 66 of which were the Company’s. Due to the improved demand during 2011 for inland petrochemical and black oil barges and federal tax incentives on new equipment, the Company estimates that approximately 230 tank barges were ordered during 2011 and early 2012 for delivery throughout 2012, 55 of which are for the Company, and many older tank barges will be retired, dependent on 2012 market conditions. The risk of an oversupply of inland tank barges may be mitigated by the fact that the inland tank barge industry has a mature fleet. Of the estimated 3,100 tank barges in the industry at the present time, approximately 500 are over 35 years old and approximately 250 of those are over 40 years old. With the high cost of maintaining the USCG certification requirements for older tank barges and the current low term contract and spot contract rate environment limiting recovery of maintenance costs for older barges, the Company expects older barges will continue to be removed from service and industry supply and demand will continue to slowly move closer to balance. At the present time, with the industry coastal tank barge market utilization rates in the 70% to 80% range, very few coastal tank barges were built during 2011 and the Company believes very few orders for coastal tank barges have been placed for 2012 deliveries. Higher fuel prices could increase operating expenses. The cost of fuel during 2011 was approximately 14% of marine transportation revenue, as the Company consumed 54.0 million gallons of diesel fuel at an average price of $3.10 per gallon. This compares with 2010 when the cost of fuel was approximately 11% of marine transportation revenue, as the Company consumed 43.3 million gallons of diesel fuel at an average price of $2.22 per gallon. All marine transportation term contracts contain fuel escalation clauses, or the customer pays for the fuel. However, there is generally a 30 to 90 day delay before contracts are adjusted depending on the specific contract. In general, the fuel escalation clauses are effective over the long-term in allowing the Company to adjust to changes in fuel costs due to fuel price changes; however, the short-term effectiveness of the fuel escalation clauses can be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, specific terms of the fuel escalation formulas, fuel price volatility, navigating conditions, tow sizes, trip routing, and the location of loading and discharge ports that may result in the Company over or under recovering its fuel costs. Spot contract rates generally reflect current fuel prices at the time the contract is signed but do not have escalators for fuel. Loss of a large customer or other significant business relationship could adversely affect the Company. Two marine transportation customers, Dow and SeaRiver, accounted for approximately 16% of the Company’s 2011 revenue, 23% of 2010 revenue and 21% of 2009 revenue. Although the Company considers its relationships with Dow and SeaRiver to be strong, the loss of either customer could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s diesel engine services segment has a 46-year relationship with EMD, the largest manufacturer of medium-speed diesel engines. In addition, the Company serves as both an EMD distributor and service center for select markets and locations for both service and parts. Sales and service of EMD products account for approximately 3% of the Company’s revenue for 2011. Although the Company considers its relationship with EMD to be strong, the loss of the EMD distributorship and service rights, or a disruption of the supply of EMD parts, could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to service its customers. 28 Table of Contents United has maintained continuous exclusive distribution rights for MTU and Allison since 1946. United is one of MTU’s top five distributors of off-highway engines in North America, with exclusive distribution rights in Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi. In addition, as a distributor of Allison products, United has distribution rights in Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana. United is also the exclusive distributor for Daimler for engines and related equipment in Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana. Sales and service of MTU and Allison products account for approximately 4% and 7%, respectively, of the Company’s revenue during 2011. Although the Company considers its relationships with MTU and Allison to be strong, the loss of MTU, Allison or Daimler distributorships and service rights, or a disruption of the supply of MTU or Allison parts, could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to service its customers. The Company is subject to competition in both its marine transportation and diesel engine services segments. The inland and coastal tank barge industry remains very competitive. The Company’s primary competitors are noncaptive inland tank barge operators and coastal operators. The Company also competes with companies who operate refined product and petrochemical pipelines, railroad tank cars and tractor-trailer tank trucks. Increased competition from any significant expansion of or additions to facilities or equipment by the Company’s competitors could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The diesel engine services industry is also very competitive. The segment’s primary marine competitors are independent diesel services companies and other factory-authorized distributors, authorized service centers and authorized marine dealers. Certain operators of diesel powered marine equipment also elect to maintain in-house service capabilities. In the power generation market, the primary competitors are other independent service companies. The segment’s land-based market’s principal competitors are independent diesel engine service and oilfield manufacturing companies and other factory-authorized distributors and service centers. In addition, certain oilfield service companies that are customers of the Company also manufacture and service a portion of their own oilfield equipment. Increased competition in the diesel engine services industry could result in less oilfield equipment being manufactured, lower rates for service and parts pricing and result in less manufacturing, service and repair opportunities and parts sales for the Company. Significant increases in the construction cost of inland tank barges and towboats may limit the Company’s ability to earn an adequate return on its investment in new tank barges and towboats. The price of steel increased significantly from 2006 to 2009, thereby increasing the construction cost of new tank barges and towboats. The Company’s average construction price for a new 30,000 barrel capacity inland tank barge ordered in 2008 for 2009 delivery was approximately 90% higher than in 2000, primarily due to the increase in steel prices. During 2009, the United States and global recession negatively impacted demand levels for inland tank barges and as a result, the construction price of inland tank barges for 2010 delivery fell significantly, primarily due to a significant decrease in steel prices, as well as a decrease in the number of tank barges ordered. The average construction price for tank barges ordered in 2011 for delivery in 2012 increased, but remained significantly below the construction price for tank barges built in 2008 and delivered in 2009. The Company’s diesel engine services segment could be adversely impacted by future legislation or additional regulation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The Company, through its United subsidiary, is a distributor and service provider of engine and transmission related products for the oil and gas services, power generation and transportation industries, and a manufacturer of oilfield service equipment, including hydraulic fracturing equipment. The EPA is studying hydraulic fracturing practices, and legislation may be introduced in Congress that would authorize the EPA to impose additional regulations on hydraulic fracturing. In addition, a number of states are evaluating the adoption of legislation or regulations governing hydraulic fracturing. Such federal or state legislation and/or regulations could materially impact customers’ operations and greatly reduce or eliminate demand for the Company’s hydraulic fracturing equipment and related products. The Company is unable to predict whether future legislation or any other regulations will ultimately be enacted, and if so, the impact on the Company’s diesel engine services segment. The Company’s diesel engine services segment could be adversely impacted by the construction of hydraulic fracturing horsepower by its competitors. At the present time, there is an estimated 14 million horsepower of 29 Table of Contents hydraulic fracturing equipment in North America used in the hydraulic fracturing of shale formations. Increased expansion of, or additions to, facilities or equipment by the Company’s competitors could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. A significant drop in demand as well could result in oversupply in the pressure pumping market as attrition rates may not be high enough to absorb the new capacity entering the market and could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 