Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are the material risks facing our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Competition in our industry could result in us losing market share and/or require us to charge lower prices for services, which could reduce our revenue. We compete for executive search business with numerous executive search firms and businesses that provide job placement services. Traditional executive search competitors include Egon Zehnder International, Heidrick & Struggles International, Inc., Russell Reynolds Associates and Spencer Stuart. In each of our markets, our competitors may possess greater resources, greater name recognition and longer operating histories than we do, which may give them an advantage in obtaining future clients and attracting qualified professionals in these markets. There are no extensive barriers to entry into the executive search industry and new recruiting firms continue to enter the market. We believe the continuing development and increased availability of information technology will continue to attract new competitors. Increased competition may lead to pricing pressures that could negatively impact our business. For example, increased competition could require us to charge lower prices, and/or cause us to lose market share, each of which could reduce our revenue. 9 Table of Contents If we fail to attract and retain qualified and experienced consultants, our revenue could decline and our business could be harmed. We compete with other executive search firms for qualified consultants. Attracting and retaining consultants in our industry is particularly important because, generally, a small number of consultants have primary responsibility for a client relationship. Because client responsibility is so concentrated, the loss of key consultants may lead to the loss of client relationships. This risk is heightened due to the general portability of a consultant’s business. Any decrease in the quality of our reputation, reduction in our compensation levels or restructuring of our compensation program, whether as a result of insufficient revenue, a decline in the market price of our common stock or for any other reason, could impair our ability to retain existing consultants or attract additional qualified consultants with the requisite experience, skills and established client relationships. Our failure to retain our most productive consultants or maintain the quality of service to which our clients are accustomed and the ability of a departing consultant to move business to his or her new employer could result in a loss of clients, which could in turn cause our revenue to decline and our business to be harmed. Global economic developments and the conditions in the geographic regions and the industries from which we derive a significant portion of our fee revenue could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our services is affected by global economic conditions and the general level of economic activity in the geographic regions and industries in which we operate. When conditions in the global economy, including the credit markets, deteriorate, or economic activity slows, many companies hire fewer permanent employees. The geographic regions and industries in which we operate have recently deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. If the national or global economy or credit market conditions in general do not improve or deteriorate further in the future, the demand for our services could continue to weaken, resulting in lower cash flows and a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to retain our executive officers and key personnel, or integrate new members of our senior management who are critical to our business, we may not be able to successfully manage our business in the future. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management personnel. If we lose the services of one or more of our executives or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, or if we are unable to integrate new members of our senior management who are critical to our business, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. If we are unable to maintain our professional reputation and brand name, our business will be harmed. We depend on our overall reputation and brand name recognition to secure new engagements and to hire qualified professionals. Our success also depends on the individual reputations of our professionals. We obtain a majority of our new engagements from existing clients or from referrals by those clients. Any client who is dissatisfied with our assignments can adversely affect our ability to secure new engagements. If any factor, including poor performance, hurts our reputation, we may experience difficulties in competing successfully for both new engagements and qualified consultants. Failing to maintain our professional reputation and the goodwill associated with our brand name could seriously harm our business. We are subject to potential legal liability from clients, employees and candidates for employment. Insurance coverage may not be available to cover all of our potential liability and available coverage may not be sufficient to cover all claims that we may incur. Our ability to obtain liability insurance, its coverage levels, deductibles and premiums are all dependent on market factors, our loss history and insurers’ perception of our overall risk profile. We are exposed to potential claims with respect to the executive search process. For example, a client could assert a claim for matters such as breach of an off-limit agreement or recommending a candidate who subsequently proves to be unsuitable for the 10 Table of Contents position filled. Further, the current employer of a candidate whom we placed could file a claim against us alleging interference with an employment contract. In addition, a candidate could assert an action against us for failure to maintain the confidentiality of the candidate’s employment search or for alleged discrimination, violations of employment law or other matters. We cannot ensure that our insurance will cover all claims or that insurance coverage will be available at economically acceptable rates. We rely heavily on our information systems and if we lose that technology, or fail to further develop our technology, our business could be harmed. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process, manage and protect substantial amounts of information. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development of new proprietary software, either internally or through independent consultants. If we are unable to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, or for any reason any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities occurs, this could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face risks associated with social and political instability, legal requirements, economic conditions and currency fluctuations in our international operations. We operate in 37 countries and during the year ended April 30, 2009, generated 46% of our fee revenue from operations outside of North America. We are exposed to the risk of changes in social, political, legal and economic conditions inherent in international operations. Examples of risks inherent in transacting business worldwide that we are exposed to include: • changes in and compliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements; • difficulties in staffing and managing global operations; • social and political instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • statutory equity requirements; • repatriation controls; and • potential adverse tax consequences. We have no hedging or similar foreign currency contracts and therefore fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could impact our global operations. We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be limited in our ability to recruit employees from our clients and we could lose those opportunities to our competition, which could harm our business. Either by agreement with clients, or for client relations or marketing purposes, we sometimes refrain from, for a specified period of time, recruiting candidates from a client when conducting searches on behalf of other clients. These off-limit agreements can generally remain in effect for up to two years following completion of an assignment. The duration and scope of the off-limit agreement, including whether it covers all operations of the client and its affiliates or only certain divisions of a client, generally are subject to negotiation or internal policies and may depend on factors such as the scope, size and complexity of the client’s business, the length of the client relationship and the frequency with which we have been engaged to perform executive searches for the client. Our inability to recruit candidates from these clients may make it difficult for us to obtain search assignments from, or to fulfill search assignments for, other companies in that client’s industry. We cannot ensure that off-limit agreements will not impede our growth or our ability to attract and serve new clients, or otherwise harm our business. 11 Table of Contents We have provisions that make an acquisition of us more difficult and expensive. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, our Bylaws and under Delaware law make it more difficult and expensive for us to be acquired in a transaction that is not approved by our Board of Directors. Some of the provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include: • a classified Board of Directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • limitation on stockholder actions; • advance notification requirements for director nominations and actions to be taken at stockholder meetings; and • the ability to issue one or more series of preferred stock by action of our Board of Directors. These provisions could discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium over the current market price for the common stock. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to use under certain circumstances. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. This would result in an increase in our effective tax rate, and an adverse effect on our future operating results. In addition, changes in statutory tax rates may also change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impact on our effective tax rate. Our deferred tax assets may also be impacted by new legislation or regulation. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In assessing the carrying value of goodwill, we make estimates and assumptions about revenues, operating margins, growth rates, and discount rates based on our business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying these factors. Goodwill valuations have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. We could be required to evaluate the carrying value of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience further unexpected significant declines in operating results, or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges could substantially affect our results of operations and net worth in the periods of such charges. Acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our business. While we may, under certain circumstances, pursue acquisitions in the future, we may not be able to consummate such acquisitions on satisfactory terms or integrate the acquired businesses effectively and profitably into our existing operations. To the extent we consummate any acquisitions, our future success may depend in part on our ability to complete the integration of the acquisition target successfully into our operations. Failure to successfully integrate new employees and complementary businesses may adversely affect our profitability by creating operating inefficiencies that could increase operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues and reduce operating income. Further, after any acquisition, the acquired businesses’ clients may choose not to move their business to us causing an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to align our cost structure with our revenue level. We must ensure that our costs and workforce continue to be in proportion to demand for our services. Any failure to maintain a balance between our cost structure and headcount and our revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available at all or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Continued adverse changes in the Company’s revenue could require us to institute additional cost cutting measures, and to the extent our efforts are insufficient, we may be required to obtain additional financing to meet our needs. If we are unable to secure additional financing on favorable terms or at all, our ability to fund our operations could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 