Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are the material risks facing our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Competition in our industry could result in us losing market share and/or require us to charge lower prices for services, which could reduce our revenue. We compete for executive recruitment business with numerous executive recruitment firms and businesses that provide job placement services, including other large global executive search firms, smaller specialty firms and web-based firms. Traditional executive recruitment competitors include Egon Zehnder International, Heidrick & Struggles International, Inc., Russell Reynolds Associates and Spencer Stuart. In each of our markets, our competitors may possess greater resources, greater name recognition and longer operating histories than we do, which may give them an advantage in obtaining future clients and attracting qualified professionals in these markets. Additionally, specialty firms can focus on regional or functional markets or on particular industries. There are no extensive barriers to entry into the executive recruitment industry and new recruiting firms continue to enter the market. We believe the continuing development and increased availability of information technology will continue to attract new competitors, especially web-enabled professional and social networking website providers. As these providers continue to evolve, they may develop offerings similar to or more expansive than ours, thereby increasing competition for our services or more broadly causing disruption in the executive recruitment industry. Increased competition, whether as a result of these professional and social networking website providers or traditional executive recruitment firms, may lead to pricing pressures that could negatively impact our business. For example, increased competition could require us to charge lower prices, and/or cause us to lose market share, each of which could reduce our fee revenue. If we fail to attract and retain qualified and experienced consultants, our revenue could decline and our business could be harmed. We compete with other executive recruitment firms for qualified and experienced consultants. Attracting and retaining consultants in our industry is particularly important because, generally, a small number of consultants have primary responsibility for a client relationship. Because client responsibility is so concentrated, the loss of key consultants may lead to the loss of client relationships. In 2012, for example, our top three executive search consultants had primary responsibility for generating business equal to approximately 2% of our net revenues, and our top ten executive search consultants had primary responsibility for generating business equal to approximately 6% of our net revenues. This risk is heightened due to the general portability of a consultant’s business. Any decrease in the quality of our reputation, reduction in our compensation levels relative to our peers or restructuring of our compensation program, whether as a result of insufficient revenue, a decline in the market price of our common stock or for any other reason, could impair our ability to retain existing consultants or attract additional qualified consultants with the requisite experience, skills and established client relationships. 10 Table of Contents Our failure to retain our most productive consultants or maintain the quality of service to which our clients are accustomed and the ability of a departing consultant to move business to his or her new employer could result in a loss of clients, which could in turn cause our fee revenue to decline and our business to be harmed. We may also lose clients if the departing executive search consultant has widespread name recognition or a reputation as a specialist in executing searches in a specific industry or management function. Although our employment contracts prohibit former executive search consultants from soliciting any of our employees for a period of one year, we may lose additional executive search consultants if they choose to join the departing executive search consultant at another executive search firm. If we fail to limit departing executive search consultants from moving business or recruiting our executive search consultants to a competitor, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Global economic developments and the conditions in the geographic regions and the industries from which we derive a significant portion of our fee revenue could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our services is affected by global economic conditions and the general level of economic activity in the geographic regions and industries in which we operate. When conditions in the global economy, including the credit markets, deteriorate, or economic activity slows, many companies hire fewer permanent employees and some companies, as a cost-saving measure, choose to rely on their own human resources departments rather than third-party search firms to find talent, which negatively affects our financial condition and results of operations, as evidenced by our results of operations for 2009 and 2010. During the recent economic downturn, our fee revenue significantly decreased from $790.6 million in fiscal 2008 to $572.4 million in fiscal 2010. While the economic activity in the regions and industries in which we operate started to show improvement beginning in the second half of fiscal year 2010, the current turmoil in the sovereign debt markets as a result of the European debt crisis has resulted in general market uncertainty and in worsening economic conditions, particularly in Europe. If such uncertainty persists or if the national or global economy or credit market conditions in general were to deteriorate, such uncertainty or changes could put additional negative pressure on demand for our services, resulting in lower cash flows and a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our clients may experience reduced access to credit and lower revenues resulting in their inability to meet their payment obligations to us. The ongoing uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets related to the U.S. budget deficit, the European sovereign debt crisis, the potential partial or complete breakup of the Eurozone and the state of the global economic recovery may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Global financial markets continue to experience disruptions, including increased volatility, and diminished liquidity and credit availability. In particular, developments in Europe have created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European countries to continue to refinance their sovereign debt obligations. For the year ended April 30, 2012, approximately 11% of our revenues were derived from countries which use the Euro as their primary currency. In the event that one or more countries were to replace the Euro with their legacy currency, then the Company’s fee revenues and operating results in such countries, or Europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates were established and economic confidence restored. Disorderly exits from the eurozone could result in bank failures that could adversely impact our bank accounts in affected countries. If economic and financial market conditions in the United States or other key markets, including Europe, remain uncertain or deteriorate further, our clients may respond by suspending, delaying or reducing their expenditures, which may adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. If we are unable to retain our executive officers and key personnel, or integrate new members of our senior management who are critical to our business, we may not be able to successfully manage our business in the future. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management personnel. If we lose the services of one or more of our executives or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, or if we are unable to integrate 11 Table of Contents new members of our senior management who are critical to our business, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. If we are unable to maintain our professional reputation and brand name, our business will be harmed. We depend on our overall reputation and brand name recognition to secure new engagements and to hire qualified professionals. Our success also depends on the individual reputations of our professionals. We obtain a majority of our new engagements from existing clients or from referrals by those clients. Any client who is dissatisfied with our assignments can adversely affect our ability to secure new engagements. If any factor, including poor performance, hurts our reputation, we may experience difficulties in competing successfully for both new engagements and qualified consultants. Failing to maintain our professional reputation and the goodwill associated with our brand name could seriously harm our business. We are subject to potential legal liability from clients, employees and candidates for employment. Insurance coverage may not be available to cover all of our potential liability and available coverage may not be sufficient to cover all claims that we may incur. Our ability to obtain liability insurance, its coverage levels, deductibles and premiums are all dependent on market factors, our loss history and insurers’ perception of our overall risk profile. We are exposed to potential claims with respect to the executive recruitment process. For example, a client could assert a claim for matters such as breach of an off-limit agreement or recommending a candidate who subsequently proves to be unsuitable for the position filled. Further, the current employer of a candidate whom we placed could file a claim against us alleging interference with an employment contract. In addition, a candidate could assert an action against us for failure to maintain the confidentiality of the candidate’s employment search or for alleged discrimination, violations of employment law or other matters. Further, in various countries, we are subject to data protection laws impacting the processing of candidate information. We cannot ensure that our insurance will cover all claims or that insurance coverage will be available at economically acceptable rates. Significant uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on our information systems and if we lose that technology, or fail to further develop our technology, our business could be harmed. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process, manage and protect substantial amounts of information. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development of new proprietary software, either internally or through independent consultants. If we are unable to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, or for any reason any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities occurs, this could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Cyber security vulnerabilities could lead to improper disclosure of confidential information obtained from our clients, candidates and employees that could result in liability and harm our reputation. The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. This environment demands that we continuously improve our design and coordination of security controls across our business groups and geographies in order to protect confidential information obtained from our clients, candidates and employees. Despite these efforts, it is possible our security controls over this information, our training of employees, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of such information. Improper disclosure of this information could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure, and/or subject us to liability from our customers, resulting in increased costs and loss of revenue. We depend on our overall reputation and brand name recognition to secure new engagements. Perceptions that we do not adequately protect the privacy of confidential information could inhibit attaining new engagements and qualified consultants, and could potentially damage currently existing client relationships. 12 Table of Contents Limited protection of our intellectual property could harm our business, and we face the risk that our services or products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We cannot guarantee that trade secret, trademark and copyright law protections are adequate to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property (which has become an increasingly important part of our business). Existing laws of some countries in which we provide services or products may offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. Redressing infringements may consume significant management time and financial resources. Also, we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of our intellectual property and take the necessary steps to enforce our rights, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot be sure that our services and products, or the products of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we may have infringement claims asserted against us or our clients. These claims may harm our reputation, result in financial liability and prevent us from offering some services or products. We face risks associated with social and political instability, legal requirements, economic conditions and currency fluctuations in our international operations. We operate in 35 countries and during the year ended April 30, 2012, generated 51% of our fee revenue from operations outside of the United States. We are exposed to the risk of changes in social, political, legal and economic conditions inherent in international operations. Examples of risks inherent in transacting business worldwide that we are exposed to include: Ÿ changes in and compliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements; Ÿ difficulties in staffing and managing global operations; Ÿ social, economic and political instability; Ÿ differences in cultures and business practices; Ÿ fluctuations in currency exchange rates; Ÿ statutory equity requirements; Ÿ differences in accounting and reporting requirements; Ÿ repatriation controls; and Ÿ potential adverse tax consequences. We have no hedging or similar foreign currency contracts and therefore fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could impact our global results of operations. We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be limited in our ability to recruit employees from our clients and we could lose those opportunities to our competition, which could harm our business. Either by agreement with clients, or for client relations or marketing purposes, we sometimes refrain from, for a specified period of time, recruiting candidates from a client when conducting searches on behalf of other clients. These off-limit agreements can generally remain in effect for up to two years following completion of an assignment. The duration and scope of the off-limit agreement, including whether it covers all operations of the client and its affiliates or only certain divisions of a client, generally are subject to negotiation or internal policies and may depend on factors such as the scope, size and complexity of the client’s business, the length of the client relationship and the frequency with which we have been engaged to perform executive searches for the client. If a prospective client believes that we are overly restricted by these off-limit agreements from recruiting employees of our existing clients, these prospective clients may not engage us to perform their executive searches. Therefore, our inability to recruit candidates from these clients may make it difficult for us to obtain search assignments from, or to fulfill search assignments for, other companies in that client’s industry. We cannot 13 Table of Contents ensure that off-limit agreements will not impede our growth or our ability to attract and serve new clients, or otherwise harm our business. Consolidation in the industries that we serve could harm our business. Companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If two or more of our clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, we may experience a decrease in the amount of services we perform for these clients. If one of our clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. The increased market power of larger companies could also increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. Any of these possible results of industry consolidation could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have provisions that make an acquisition of us more difficult and expensive. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, our Bylaws and under Delaware law make it more difficult and expensive for us to be acquired in a transaction that is not approved by our Board of Directors. Some of the provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include: Ÿ a classified Board of Directors; Ÿ limitations on the removal of directors; Ÿ limitation on stockholder actions; Ÿ advance notification requirements for director nominations and actions to be taken at stockholder meetings; and Ÿ the ability to issue one or more series of preferred stock by action of our Board of Directors. These provisions could discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium over the current market price for the common stock. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to use under certain circumstances. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. This would result in an increase in our effective tax rate, and an adverse effect on our future operating results. In addition, changes in statutory tax rates may also change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either a favorable or unfavorable impact on our effective tax rate. Our deferred tax assets may also be impacted by new legislation or regulation. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. Goodwill is initially recorded as the excess of amounts paid over the fair value of net assets acquired. While goodwill is not amortized it is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In assessing the carrying value of goodwill, we make qualitative and quantitative assumptions and estimates about revenues, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates based on our business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying these factors. Goodwill valuations have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and a market approach. We could be required to evaluate the carrying value of goodwill prior to the annual assessment, if we experience unexpected significant declines in operating results or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges could substantially affect our results of operations and net worth in the periods of such charges. 14 Table of Contents Acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our business. While we may, under certain circumstances, pursue acquisitions in the future, we may not be able to consummate such acquisitions on satisfactory terms or integrate the acquired businesses effectively and profitably into our existing operations. To the extent we consummate any acquisitions, our future success may depend in part on our ability to complete the integration of the acquisition target successfully into our operations. Failure to successfully integrate new employees and complementary businesses may adversely affect our profitability by creating operating inefficiencies that could increase operating expenses as a percentage of fee revenue and reduce operating income. Further, after any acquisition, the acquired businesses’ clients may choose not to move their business to us causing an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to align our cost structure with our revenue level. We continuously evaluate our cost base in relation to projected near to mid-term demand for our services in an effort to align our cost structure with the current realities of our markets. If actual or projected fee revenue continues to soften over the next few months, we may find it necessary to take cost cutting measures so that we can minimize the impact on our profitability. There is, however, no guarantee that if we do take such measures that such measures will properly align our cost structure to our revenue level. Any failure to maintain a balance between our cost structure and our revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and lead to negative cash flows, which in turn might require us to obtain additional financing to meet our capital needs. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available at all or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Future adverse changes in the Company’s revenue could require us to institute cost cutting measures. To the extent our efforts are insufficient, we may incur negative cash flows. If such conditions persist over an extended period of time, it might require us to obtain financing to meet our capital needs. If we are unable to secure financing on favorable terms, or at all, our ability to fund our operations could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We invest in marketable securities classified as trading and available for sale and if the market value of these securities declines materially, they could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Marketable securities consist of mutual funds and investments in corporate bonds, commercial paper and U.S. Treasury and agency securities. The primary objectives of the mutual funds are to meet the obligations under certain of our deferred compensation plans, while the other securities are available for general corporate purposes. If the financial markets in which these securities trade were to materially decline in value, the unrealized losses and potential realized losses could negatively impact the Company’s financial position and results of operations. Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. Should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. In such an event, we could experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations. In particular, our ability to recover from any disaster or other business continuity problem will depend on our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. We could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster. We will continue to regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our business continuity plans. However, a disaster on a significant scale or 15 Table of Contents affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and results of operations. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). These accounting principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements. We are also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during each reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions including those relating to restructuring, deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets, contingencies, annual performance related bonus, share-based payments and deferred income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on specific circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates, and changes in accounting standards could have an adverse impact on our future financial position and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 