ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in the Company’s common stock involves a high degree of risk. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations or prospects, financial or otherwise. REDUCTION IN PRESENT LEVELS OF CASH FLOW COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS The Company’s primary source of liquidity over the past 12 months has been operating cash flows. The Company’s future cash flows from operations (on both a short term and long term basis) are dependent upon, but not limited to: · the Company’s ability to attract new customers that will sell the Company’s products and pay for them; · the Company’s ability to retain the Company’s existing customers at the level of sales previously produced; · the volume of sales for these customers; · the loss of business of one or more primary customers; · changes in types of products that the customers purchase in their sales mix; · poor or deteriorating economic conditions which would directly impact the ability of the Company’s customers to remain in business and pay for their products on a timely basis; · Management’s ability to minimize the impact of requests for increases in material or labor cost increases; and · the ability to collect in full and in a timely manner amounts due to the Company. In addition, as noted above, the Company’s cash flow is also dependent, to some extent, upon the ability to maintain operating margins. The continuing general downturn in economic conditions or other events that caused the Company’s customers to turn to lower-priced, lower-margin products, could cause the Company’s cash flow and profitability to be materially and adversely affected. FAILURE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN CUSTOMERS TO SELL THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT SALES VOLUME AND FUTURE PROFITABILITY The Company markets a line of products used by consumers to listen to music. The Company distributes these products through retail channels in the U.S. and independent distributors throughout the rest of the world. The Company is dependent upon its ability to retain an existing base of customers to sell the Company’s line of products. Loss of customers means loss of product placement. The Company has broad distribution across many channels including specialty stores, mass merchants, electronics stores and computer retailers. Any loss of a customer directly translates into a reduction in sales volume which can only be replaced by adding a similar number of representative retail outlets. The inability of the Company’s sales and marketing staff to obtain new distribution outlets translates into a lack of future growth and possibly a setback in sales volumes when loss of 8 Table of Contents current customers occur. For example, the loss of a customer representing 10% of the Company’s business would translate into a reduction in revenues of up to 10% based upon the point through the year that the customer was lost. Attracting a new customer during the course of a year could have a positive impact or simply replace an account which has been lost. In addition, a customer can decide to make a change in the models that it decides to offer for sale. Such changes can occur arbitrarily throughout the course of a year which can cause reductions in sales revenues in proportion to the number of retail outlets that the store represents in the market. The Company may not be able to maintain customers or model selections and therefore may experience a reduction in its sales revenue until a model is restored to the mix or a lost customer is replaced by a new customer. A reduction in sales volume would cause a reduction in profitability. The Company’s failure to retain existing customers, obtain new customers or develop new product lines that customers would choose to offer to consumers could significantly affect the Company’s future profitability. The loss of business of one or more principal customers or a change in the sales volume from a particular customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales volume and profitability. SHIFT IN CUSTOMER SPECIFICATIONS TO LOWER PRICED ITEMS CAN REDUCE PROFIT MARGINS NEGATIVELY IMPACTING PROFITABILITY The Company sells a line of products with a suggested retail price ranging from less than $10 up to $1,000. The gross margin for each of these models is unique in terms of percentages. The price range of the products also produces a different level of actual dollar contribution per unit. For example, a product with a gross margin contribution of 50% might yield a $5 contribution for one item, while another item may feature a 30% gross margin which could yield $50. The Company finds the low priced portion of the market most competitive and therefore most subject to pressure on gross margin percentages, which tends to lower profit contributions. Retail preference for lower priced items can reduce profit margins and contributions. The risk is that a shift in retail customer specifications toward lower priced items can lead to lower gross margins and lower profit contributions per unit of sale. Due to the range of products that the Company sells, the product sales mix can produce a variation in terms of a range of profit margins. Some customers sell a limited range of products that yield lower profit margins than others. Most notably, the budget priced headphone segment of the market below $10 retail, which is distributed through computer stores, office supply stores and mass market retailers, tends to yield the lowest gross margins. An increase in business with these types of accounts, if coupled with a simultaneous reduction in sales to customers with higher gross margins, would reduce profit margins and profitability. POOR ECONOMIC CONDITIONS CAN RESTRICT OR LIMIT PRODUCT PLACEMENT, SALES AND REPLENISHMENT WHICH COULD DECREASE PROFITS Deteriorating or weak economic conditions, or a forecast for the same, can trigger changes in inventory stocking at retail customers. This may in turn lead to a reduction in model offerings and/or out of stock situations. If a retail customer of the Company does not have adequate supply of the Company’s products to offer for sale in a retail store, consumers may choose another competitive model instead. Customers operating retail stores anticipate future sales demands and stock inventory accordingly. Whenever a general economic slowdown occurs, at both the domestic and/or foreign level, sales volume levels and re-order volume levels change. These changes directly impact the Company’s sales and profitability. The Company is not in a position to determine how it will be affected by these circumstances, how extensive the effects may be, or for how long the Company may be impacted by these circumstances. The Company’s customers respond to changes in economic conditions and any adverse changes in economic conditions can therefore restrict product placement, availability, sales, replenishment and ultimately profitability. These conditions exist domestically and internationally. MANAGEMENT IS SUBJECT TO DECISIONS MADE OUTSIDE ITS CONTROL WHICH COULD DIRECTLY AFFECT FUTURE PROFITABILITY Retail customers determine which products they will stock for resale. The Company competes with other manufacturers to secure shelf space in retail stores for the Company’s products. During the course of a year, changes in the customers’ management personnel can ultimately lead to changes in the stock assortment offered to consumers. These changes are often arbitrary. In addition to changes in personnel within the Company’s 9 Table of Contents customers, it is also possible that a strategic decision can be made by a retail customer to consolidate vendors, or to discontinue certain product categories altogether. In these instances, the Company’s management team may not be able to convince customers to reverse such decisions. The Company’s management team is also engaged in the effective procurement, assembly and manufacture of products. The ability to negotiate with suppliers, maintain productivity and hold the line on cost increases can be subjected to pressures outside the control of management. For example, increases in fuel costs can increase freight rates. Increases of this nature can seldom be avoided and the Company may not be able to pass such increases along to its customers. Management’s effective control of the manufacturing processes will have a direct impact on the Company’s future profitability. The Company regularly makes decisions that affect production schedules, shipping schedules, employee levels and inventory levels. The Company’s ability to make effective decisions in managing these areas has a direct effect on future profitability. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AMOUNTS DUE FROM OUR CUSTOMERS CAN BE LOST AS A RESULT OF CUSTOMER BANKRUPTCY, OPERATIONAL DIFFICULTY, OR FAILURE TO PAY, NEGATIVELY IMPACTING FUTURE PROFITABILITY The Company has significant accounts receivable or other amounts due from the Company’s customers. The outstanding accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, at the end of the last four quarters averaged approximately $5,563,000. Terms of payment for customers generally range from cash in advance of delivery to net 120 day credit terms. These credit arrangements are negotiated at unspecified and irregular intervals. The largest customers generate the largest receivable balances. If a customer develops operational difficulty it is not uncommon to temporarily suspend payment to vendors. The Company is subject to this risk in the retail marketplace. From time to time a customer may develop severe operating losses which can lead to a bankruptcy. In these cases, the Company may lose most of the outstanding balance due. Occasionally, the Company has been current with a customer at the time such an event occurs. The more material risk is that of losing the revenue of the customer which might be more onerous than losing the current outstanding accounts receivable. In addition, many companies that will typically insure accounts receivables will not do so for the Company’s largest mass market customers. The risk is that the Company derives most of the Company’s sales revenue and profits from selling products to retailers for resale to consumers. The failure of the Company’s customers to pay in full amounts due to the Company could negatively affect future profitability. COMPANY PROFITS CAN SUFFER FROM INTERRUPTIONS IN SUPPLY CHAIN The Company uses contract manufacturing facilities in the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan and South Korea. These independent suppliers are distant from the Company which means that the Company is at risk of business interruptions due to natural disaster, war, disease and government intervention through tariffs or trade restrictions that are of less concern domestically. Therefore, if there are any interruptions in the supply chain for any of these reasons, this could directly impact the Company’s profits in a negative way. The Company is also at risk if trade restrictions are imposed on the Company’s products based upon country of origin. In addition, any increase in tariffs and freight charges may not be acceptable to pass along to the Company’s customers and could directly impact the Company’s profits. FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES COULD AFFECT PRICING OF PRODUCTS AND CAUSE CUSTOMERS TO PURCHASE LOWER-PRICED, LESS PROFITABLE PRODUCTS AND COULD AFFECT OVERALL DEMAND FOR THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS The Company receives a material portion of its sales and profits from business in Europe. To the extent that the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to currencies in those jurisdictions, it increases the cost of the Company’s products in those jurisdictions, which could create negative pressure on the overall demand for the Company’s products. The Company gets paid by its international customers in U.S. dollars. To the extent that increased prices arising from currency fluctuations decrease the overall demand for the Company’s products or motivate customers to purchase lower-priced, lower profit products, the Company’s sales, profits and cash flows could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents COMPANY PROFITS CAN SUFFER FROM INCREASING MANUFACTURING COSTS IN CHINA AS A RESULT OF INCREASED WAGES AND WAGE TAXES The Company uses contract manufacturing facilities in the People’s Republic of China. An increase in the cost of labor or taxes on wages in China may lead to an increase in the cost of goods manufactured in China. The cost of labor and wage taxes have increased in China which means that the Company is at risk of higher manufacturing costs associated with goods manufactured in China. Significant increases in wages or wage taxes paid by contract manufacturing facilities may increase the cost of goods manufactured in China which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profit margins and profitability. THE COMPANY USES THIRD PARTY CARRIERS TO SHIP ITS PRODUCTS WHICH MAY PASS ON INCREASES IN TRANSPORTATION-RELATED FUEL COST TO THE COMPANY WHICH CAN REDUCE PROFIT MARGINS NEGATIVELY IMPACTING PROFITABILITY The Company uses numerous third party carriers to ship product, both domestically and internationally. If the price of fuel increases and the carriers choose to pass on the increase to the Company, freight costs may increase. As a result, the Company’s freight cost is impacted by changes in fuel prices. Fuel prices affect freight costs to both customer’s location and the Company’s distribution center. Increases in fuel prices and surcharges and other factors have increased and may continue to increase freight costs in the future. The inflationary pressure of higher fuel costs and continued increase in transportation-related costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profit margins and profitability. CONSISTENCY OF THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS WITH SEVERAL U.S. RETAILERS The Company is particularly concerned about the consistency of business with several U.S. retailers. The recent tightening of credit availability worldwide caused all retailers to sharply curtail inventory increases. In addition, many retailers have been negatively impacted by the economic recession. The Company has experienced some consolidation in product lines and item elimination, or reductions at several big box retailers. Finally, the Company is subject to fluctuations in production of the Company’s automobile customers and the potential impact that might have upon the Company’s rear seat entertainment products for the automotive market in the coming year. THE COMPANY IS CURRENTLY UNABLE TO ASSESS THE AMOUNTS THAT MAY BE RECOVERED THROUGH THE PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF ITEMS SEIZED BY LAW ENFORCEMENT, INSURANCE, POTENTIAL CLAIMS AGAINST THIRD PARTIES OR TAX REFUNDS. The Company has estimated that the amount of the unauthorized transactions is approximately $31,500,000 since fiscal year 2005 through December 31, 2009 as described in the Company’s Form 10-K/A for June 30, 2009 that was filed on June 30, 2010. Over 25,000 items have been seized by law enforcement authorities. Although the Company intends to pursue proceeds from the sale of items seized by law enforcement authorities, as well as from insurance coverage, potential claims against third parties and tax refunds, the Company cannot reasonably assess the amounts or timing of such recoveries. Through the date of issuance of this 10-K, the Company has received $1,746,469 from its insurance company. The Company’s inability to recover its losses could have a significant and adverse effect on its future financial condition. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS RELATED TO THE UNAUTHORIZED TRANSACTIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY’S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, CASH FLOWS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. As further described in Item 3 Legal Proceedings, the Company is currently addressing several legal matters related to the unauthorized transactions. The Company is unable at this time to quantify its exposure, if any. The costs of dealing with these matters and any penalties and awards that may be assessed against the Company could 11 Table of Contents be substantial and may adversely affect the Company’s future results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. THE COMPANY’S STOCK PRICE MAY FLUCTUATE AS A RESULT OF THE UNAUTHORIZED TRANSACTIONS AND BECAUSE OF THE UNCERTAINTIES ABOUT THEIR EFFECT ON THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL CONDITION. Uncertainties about the effect of the unauthorized transactions and significant developments related to the unauthorized transactions, such as the legal matters described above or the results and recommendations of the Independent Investigation could cause fluctuation in the Company’s stock price. The Company’s common stock could also be subject to wide fluctuations in response to additional business factors such as the following: · the sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Company’s operating results or its competitors’ operating results; · announcements by the Company or its competitors of new products; · capacity changes, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; · the Company’s growth rate and its competitors’ growth rates; · changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding the Company, its competitors or the industry in general, or lack of analyst coverage of the Company’s common stock; · sales of the Company’s common stock by its executive officers, directors and significant stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of common stock; and · changes in accounting principles. THE COMPANY’S INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING FAILED TO TIMELY DETECT AND PREVENT THE UNAUTHORIZED TRANSACTIONS AND IT IS POSSIBLE THAT WE HAVE NOT IMPLEMENTED EFFECTIVE REMEDIAL MEASURES. The Company’s internal controls as of June 30, 2009 were not effective in that they failed to timely detect and prevent the circumvention of the internal controls and procedures relating to the unauthorized transactions. Management believes it has implemented remedial measures to address the issues identified, but a sufficient amount of time has not yet elapsed to test these internal controls and procedures to confirm whether they are effective. Thus, there is no assurance that these deficiencies have been adequately addressed or that the Company has discovered all of the deficiencies that may exist in the internal control over financial reporting. The Independent Investigation is ongoing and it is possible that the Company and/or the Independent Committee may identify additional deficiencies regarding the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. THE RESTATEMENT OF THE COMPANY’S CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HAS SUBJECTED THE COMPANY TO INCREASED COSTS FOR ACCOUNTING AND LEGAL FEES. The Company issued restated consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for June 30, 2009 that was filed on June 30, 2010. This restatement was because of errors in previously issued financial statements caused by the unauthorized transactions. This restatement has subjected the Company to significant costs in the form of accounting, legal fees and similar professional fees, in addition to the substantial diversion of time and attention of the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and members of its accounting department in preparing the restatement. Although the restatement is complete, no assurance can be given that the Company will not incur additional costs associated with the restatement. 12 Table of Contents 