ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations or prospects, financial or otherwise. REDUCTION IN PRESENT LEVELS OF CASH FLOW COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS 5 Table of Contents The Company’s primary source of liquidity over the past twelve months has been operating cash flows. The Company’s future cash flows from operations (on both a short term and long term basis) are dependent upon, but not limited to: • the Company’s ability to attract new customers that will sell the Company’s products and pay for them, • the Company’s ability to retain the Company’s existing customers at the level of sales previously produced, • the volume of sales for these customers, • the loss of business of one or more primary customers, • changes in types of products that the customers purchase in their sales mix, • the volume of royalty income paid to the Company by its licensees based upon the terms of each royalty agreement, including the inability to negotiate favorable royalty arrangements and renew current arrangements with certain existing favorable terms, • poor or deteriorating economic conditions which would directly impact the ability of the Company’s customers to remain in business and pay for their products on a timely basis, • management’s ability to hold the line on any requests for increases in material or labor cost increases, and • the ability to collect in full and in a timely manner, amounts due to the Company. In addition, as noted above, the Company’s cash flow is also dependent, to some extent, upon the ability to maintain operating margins. If there were a general downturn in economic conditions or other events that caused the Company’s customers to turn to lower-priced, lower-margin products, the Company’s cash flow and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. FAILURE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN CUSTOMERS TO SELL THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT SALES VOLUME AND FUTURE PROFITABILITY The Company markets a line of products used by consumers to listen to music. The Company distributes these products through retail channels in the U.S. and independent distributors throughout the rest of the world. The Company is dependent upon the Company’s ability to retain an existing base of customers to sell the Company’s line of products. Loss of customers means loss of product placement. The Company has broad distribution across many channels including specialty stores, mass merchants, electronics stores and computer retailers. Since distribution is broadly based, any loss of a customer directly translates into a reduction in sales volume which can only be replaced by replacing a similar number of representative retail outlets. The inability of the Company’s sales and marketing staff to obtain new distribution outlets translates into a lack of future growth and possibly a setback in sales volumes when loss of current customers occur. For example, the loss of a customer representing 10% of the Company’s business would translate into a reduction in revenues of up to 10% based upon the point through the fiscal year that the customer was lost. Attracting a new customer during the course of a fiscal year could have a positive impact or simply replace an account which has been lost. In addition, a customer can decide to make a change in the models that it decides to offer for sale. Such changes can take place arbitrarily throughout the course of a year which can cause reductions in sales revenues in proportion to the number of retail outlets that the store represents in the market. The Company may not be able to maintain customers or model selections and therefore experience a reduction in its sales revenue until a model is restored to the mix or a customer is replaced by a new customer. A reduction in sales volume would cause a reduction in profitability. The Company’s failure to retain existing customers, obtain new customers or develop new product lines that customers would choose to offer to consumers could significantly affect the Company’s future profitability. The loss of business of one or more principal customers or a change in the sales 6 Table of Contents volume from a particular customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales volume and profitability. SHIFT IN CUSTOMER SPECIFICATIONS TO LOWER PRICED ITEMS CAN REDUCE PROFIT MARGINS NEGATIVELY IMPACTING PROFITABILITY The Company sells a line of products with a suggested retail price ranging from less than $10 to $1,000. The gross margin for each of these models is unique in terms of percentages. The price range of the products also produces a different level of actual dollar contribution per unit. For example a product with a gross margin contribution of 50% might yield a $5.00 contribution for one item, while another item may feature a 30% gross margin which could yield $50.00. The Company finds the low priced portion of the market most competitive and therefore most subject to pressure on gross margin percentages, which tends to lower profit contributions. Retail preference for lower priced items can reduce profit margins and contributions. The risk is that a shift in retail customer specifications toward lower priced items can lead to lower gross margins and lower profit contributions per unit of sale. Due to the range of products that the Company sells, the product sales mix can produce a variation in terms of a range of profit margins. Some customers sell a limited range of products that yield lower profit margins than others. Most notably, the budget priced headphone segment of the market below $10.00 retail which is distributed through computer stores, office supply stores, and mass market retailers tend to yield the lowest gross margins. An increase in business with these types of accounts, if coupled with a simultaneous reduction in sales to customers with higher gross margins would reduce profit margins and profitability. POOR ECONOMIC CONDITIONS CAN RESTRICT OR LIMIT PRODUCT PLACEMENT, SALES AND REPLENISHMENT WHICH COULD DECREASE PROFITS Deteriorating or weak economic conditions, or a forecast for the same, can trigger changes in inventory stocking at retail. This may in turn lead to a reduction in model offerings and to out of stock situations. If a retail customer of the Company does not have adequate stocks of the Company’s products to offer for sale in a retail store, consumers may choose another competitive model instead. Customers operating retail stores anticipate future sales demands and inventory products accordingly. Whenever a general economic slowdown occurs, at both the domestic or foreign level, sales volume levels and re-orders change. These changes directly impact the Company’s sales and profitability. The Company is not in a position to determine how it will be affected by these circumstances, how extensive the effects may be, or for how long the Company may be impacted by these circumstances. The Company’s customers respond to changes in economic conditions and any adverse changes in economic conditions can therefore restrict product placement, availability, sales, replenishment and ultimately profitability. These conditions exist domestically and internationally. MANAGEMENT IS SUBJECT TO DECISIONS MADE OUTSIDE ITS CONTROL WHICH COULD DIRECTLY AFFECT FUTURE PROFITABILITY Retail customers determine which products they will stock for resale. The Company competes with other manufacturers to secure shelf space in retail stores for the Company’s products. During the course of a year, changes in the customers’ management personnel can ultimately lead to changes in the stock assortment offered to consumers. These changes are often arbitrary. In addition to changes in personnel within the Company’s customers, it is also possible that a strategic decision can be made by a retail customer to consolidate vendors, or to discontinue certain product categories altogether. In these instances, the Company’s management team may not able to convince customers to reverse such decisions. The Company’s management team is also engaged in the effective procurement, assembly, and manufacture of products. The ability to negotiate with suppliers, maintain productivity, and hold the line on cost increases can be subjected to pressures outside the control of management. For example, 7 Table of Contents increases in fuel costs can increase rates of freight. Increases of this nature can seldom be avoided and the Company may not be able to pass such increases along to its customers. Management’s effective control of the manufacturing processes will have a direct impact on the Company’s future profitability. The Company regularly makes decisions that affect production schedules, shipping schedules, employee levels, and inventory levels. The Company’s ability to make effective decisions in managing these areas has a direct effect on future profitability. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AMOUNTS DUE FROM OUR CUSTOMERS CAN BE LOST AS A RESULT OF CUSTOMER BANKRUPTCY, OPERATIONAL DIFFICULTY, OR FAILURE TO PAY, NEGATIVELY IMPACTING FUTURE PROFITABILITY The Company has significant accounts receivable or other amounts due from the Company’s customers. The accounts receivable balance at the end of the last four quarters averaged approximately $8 million. Terms of payment for customers generally range from cash in advance to net 90 day credit terms. These credit arrangements are negotiated at unspecified and irregular intervals. The largest customers generate the largest receivable balances. If a customer develops operational difficulty it is not uncommon to temporarily suspend payment to vendors. The Company is subject to this risk in the retail marketplace. From time to time a customer may develop severe operating losses which can lead to a bankruptcy. In these cases, the Company may lose most of the outstanding balance due. Occasionally, the Company has been current with a customer at the time such an event occurs. The more material risk is that of losing the revenue of the customer which might be more onerous than losing the current outstanding accounts receivable. In addition, many companies that will insure accounts receivables will not do so for the Company’s largest mass market customers. An example of such a loss was KMART Corporation. The Company recorded a loss of approximately $500,000 of which $44,000 was repaid in 2007, $37,000 in 2005 and $312,000 in 2004, when KMART filed for re-organization. KMART was current with the Company at the time that KMART filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy in January of 2002. The Company continued to supply KMART during its post petition re-organization and continues to supply the customer profitably today. The risk is that the Company derives most of the Company’s sales revenue and profits from selling products to retailers for resale to consumers. The failure of the Company’s customers to pay in full amounts due to the Company could negatively affect future profitability. COMPANY PROFITS CAN SUFFER FROM INTERRUPTIONS IN SUPPLY CHAIN The Company uses contract manufacturing facilities in Mainland China, Taiwan, and South Korea. These independent supplier entities are distant from the Company which means that the Company is at risk of business interruptions due to natural disaster, war, disease, and government intervention through tariffs or trade restrictions that are of less concern domestically. An additional area of concern for the Company is with the continuing “War on Terror” and the most recent developments in North Korea, Iran, and Lebanon. Three of our largest distributors outside the U.S. have already experienced a general tightening of the availability of credit in recent months, which we believe to be partly a result of certain of these external concerns. Therefore, if there are any interruptions in the supply chain for any of these reasons, this could directly impact the Company’s profits in a negative way. The Company is also at risk if trade restrictions are imposed on the Company’s products based upon country of origin. In addition, any increase in tariffs and freight charges may not be acceptable to pass along to the Company’s customers and could directly impact the Company’s profits. FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES COULD AFFECT PRICING OF PRODUCTS AND CAUSE CUSTOMERS TO PURCHASE LOWER-PRICED, LESS PROFITABLE PRODUCTS AND COULD AFFECT OVERALL DEMAND FOR THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS 8 Table of Contents The Company receives a material portion of its revenue and profits from business in Canada and Europe. To the extent that value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to currencies in those jurisdictions, it increases the cost of the Company’s products in those jurisdictions, which could create negative pressure on the overall demand for the Company’s products. The Company gets paid from its international customers in U.S. dollars. To the extent that increased prices arising from currency fluctuations decrease the overall demand for the Company’s products and the Company’s sales or motivate customers to purchase lower-priced, lower profit products, the Company’s revenues, profits, and cash flows could be adversely affected. CONSISTENCY OF THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS WITH SEVERAL U.S. RETAILERS The Company is particularly concerned about the consistency of business with several U.S. retailers for the coming year. The recent increases in interest rates may again cause U.S. retailers to sharply curtail inventory increases in advance of this year’s holiday season. The Company has already seen some consolidation in product lines, and item elimination, or reductions at several big box retailers this past spring. The Company also recognizes the struggle that many of the Company’s automobile customers have been reporting in the news, and the potential impact that a reduction in automobile unit sales might have upon our ‘rear seat entertainment products’ for the automotive market in the coming fiscal year. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 