Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Item 2. PROPERTIES Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH AUDITORS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Item 9A. Controls and Procedures PART III Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES PART IV Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES SIGNATURES EXHIBIT INDEX List of Subsidiaries Consent of Independent Registered Public Accountants Certification of CEO and CFO Certification of CEO and CFO 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. GENERAL As used herein, the term “Company” means Koss Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1971. The Company operates in the audio/video industry segment of the home entertainment industry through its design, manufacture and sale of stereo headphones and related accessory products. The Company reports its finances as a single reporting segment, as the Company’s principal business line is the design, manufacture, and sale of stereo headphones and related accessories. The percentage of total revenues related to this central business line over the past three fiscal years was 100% for each year. The Company’s products are sold through audio specialty stores, the Internet, direct mail catalogs, regional department store chains, discount department stores, military exchanges, prisons, and national retailers under the “Koss” name and dual label. The Company also sells products to distributors for resale to school systems, and directly to other manufactures for inclusion with their own products. The Company has more than 351 domestic dealers and its products are carried in approximately 24,500 domestic retail outlets. International markets are served by domestic sales representatives and a sales office in Switzerland which utilizes independent distributors in several foreign countries. The Company has 2 subsidiaries: Bi-Audio and Koss Classics. Ninety five percent of the Company’s products are stereo headphones for listening to music. The products are not significantly differentiated by channel or application with the exception of products sold to school systems, which sometimes include a microphone. Sales in this application represent between 2% and 3% of the Company’s revenue. There are no other product line differentiations other than the quality of the sound produced by the stereo headphone itself, which is highly subjective. The business could also be classified by distribution channel. Consumers purchase more than 98% of the Koss stereophone range of product through some form of retail channel or reseller. Management believes that it has sources of raw materials that are adequate for its needs. No employment or compensation agreement exists between the Company and its dealers. Although, the Company has several independent manufacturer’s representatives for distribution. The Company typically signs one year contracts with these manufacturer’s representatives. These agreements are seldom renewed in writing. The sales from these agreements accounted for approximately 13% of the Company’s total revenue in 2006. Specifically, the Company has a manufacturer’s representative agreement with a firm in Detroit to work exclusively in the automotive arena. The automotive representative was paid 4% for all business in this area in 2006, and will be paid 3% in 2007 and 2% thereafter. The Company’s remaining agreements with distributors, past or present, pertain to distribution arrangements in foreign countries. The arrangements with foreign distributors do not contemplate that the Company pays any compensation other than any profit the distributors make upon their sale of the Company’s products. The Company has the right to terminate these agreements with foreign distributors without cause. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY John Koss has been recognized for creating the stereophone industry with the first SP3 stereophone in 1958. The Company regularly applies for registration of its trademarks in many countries around the world in which it does business, and over the years the Company has had numerous trademarks registered and patents issued in countries in North America, South America, Asia, Europe, Africa, and Australia. 3 The Company currently has 407 trademarks registered in 82 countries around the world and patents in 26 countries. The Company has trademarks to protect the brand name, Koss, and its logo on its products. These trademarks are maintained throughout the countries in which the Company sells its products. The Company also holds many design patents that protect the unique visual appearance of some of its products. These trademarks and patents are important to differentiate the Company from its competitors. Certain of the Company’s trademarks are of material value and importance to the conduct of its business. The Company considers protection of its proprietary developments important; however, the Company’s business is not, in the opinion of management, materially dependent upon any single trademark or patent. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, the Company took steps to update and monitor its patents and trademarks to protect its intellectual property around the world. See Part II, Item 7 — “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS” herein for information relating to the Company’s license agreements. SEASONALITY Although retail sales of consumer electronics have typically been higher during the holiday season, stereophones have also seen increased interest as gift items over the years. Management of the Company believes that its business and industry segment are no longer seasonal as evidenced by the fact that 53% of sales occurred in the first six months of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, and 47% of sales occurred in the latter six months of that fiscal year. Management believes that the reason for this level performance of sales to retailers is related to the fact that stereo headphones have become replacement items for portable electronic products. Therefore upgrades and replacements appear to have as much interest over the course of the year as gifts of stereophones during the holiday season. WORKING CAPITAL AND BACKLOG The Company’s working capital needs do not differ substantially from those of its competitors in the industry and generally reflect the need to carry significant amounts of inventory to meet delivery requirements of its customers. From time to time, although rarely, the Company may extend payment terms to its dealers for a special promotion. For instance, the Company has in the past offered a 90-120 day payment period for certain customers, such as computer retailers and office supply stores. Based on historical trends, management does not expect these practices to have any material effect on net sales or net income. The Company’s current backlog of orders is not deemed material in relation to net sales during fiscal 2006. CUSTOMERS The Company markets a line of products used by consumers to listen to music, DVD’s in vehicles, sound bytes on computer systems, and other audio related media. The Company distributes these products through retail channels in the U.S. and independent distributors throughout the rest of the world. The Company markets its products to approximately 25,000 retailers and distributors worldwide. During 2006, the Company’s sales to its largest single customer, Wal-Mart Stores Inc., were approximately 13% of total gross sales. The Company is dependent upon its ability to retain a base of retailers and distributors to sell the Company’s line of products. Loss of retailers and distributors means loss of product placement. The Company has broad distribution across many channels including specialty stores, mass merchants, electronics stores, and computer retailers. Management believes that any loss of Wal-Mart’s revenues would be partially offset by a corresponding decrease, on a percentage basis, in expenses, 4 thereby partially reducing the impact on the Company’s operating income. The five largest customers of the Company (including Wal-Mart) accounted for approximately 47%, 42% and 43% of total sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004. COMPETITION The Company focuses on the headphone industry. The acquisition of ADDAX in 2003, renamed Bi-Audio, expands the Company’s investment into additional categories of headsets, headphones, and stereophones. In the stereophone market, the Company competes directly with approximately five major competitors, several of which are large and diversified and have greater total assets and resources than the Company. The Company’s single product focus is unique in the marketplace. The extent to which retailers view the Company as an innovative vendor of high quality headphone products, and a provider of excellent after sales customer service, is the extent to which the Company maintains a competitive advantage. The Company relies upon its unique sound, quality workmanship, brand identification, engineering skills, and customer service to maintain its competitive position. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The amount spent on engineering and research activities relating to the development of new products or the improvement of existing products was $320,000 during fiscal 2006 as compared with $173,000 during fiscal 2005 and $125,000 during fiscal 2004. These activities were conducted by both Company personnel and outside consultants. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS The Company believes that it has materially complied with all currently existing federal, state and local statutes and regulations regarding environmental standards and occupational safety and health matters to which it is subject. During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, the amounts incurred in complying with federal, state and local statutes and regulations pertaining to environmental standards and occupational safety and health laws and regulations did not materially affect the Company’s earnings or financial condition. EMPLOYEES As of June 30, 2006, the Company employed 115 people. The Company also utilizes temporary personnel to meet seasonal production demands. FOREIGN SALES International markets are serviced through manufacturer’s representatives or independent distributors with products produced in the United States and overseas. Our products are sold in countries in the following regions: Western and Eastern Europe, Scandinavia, The Middle East, Africa, Asia, South America, Latin America, the Caribbean, and Mexico. The Company sells products in the Canadian market directly to retailers, and also through a distributor who services smaller specialty accounts. In the opinion of management, the Company’s competitive position and risks relating to the conduct of its business in such markets are comparable to the domestic market. In addition, the governments of foreign nations may elect to erect trade barriers on imports. The creation of additional such barriers would reduce the Company’s revenue and profit. In addition, any fluctuations in currency exchange rates could affect the pricing of the Company’s products and divert customers who might choose to purchase lower-priced, less profitable products, and could affect overall demand for the Company’s products. For further 5 information, see Part II, Item 7 and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements accompanying this Form 10-K. The Company maintains a small sales office in Switzerland to service the international export marketplace. The Company is aware of no material risks in maintaining this operation. Loss of this office would result in a transfer of sales and marketing responsibility. The Company sells its products to independent distributors in countries and regions outside the United States, including Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, South America, Latin America, the Caribbean, and Mexico. The Company sells products in the Canadian market directly to retailers, and also through a distributor who services smaller specialty accounts. During the last three fiscal years, net sales of all Koss products, were distributed as follows: 2006 2005 2004 From U.S. $ 35,663,139 $ 28,881,750 $ 33,484,763 From foreign countries 15,228,498 11,404,941 7,008,448 Total Sales $ 50,891,637 $ 40,286,691 $ 40,493,211 In addition to manufacturing facilities in the United States, the Company uses contract manufacturing facilities in the Peoples Republic of China, Taiwan, and South Korea. These independent supplier entities are distant from the Company, which means that we are at risk of business interruptions due to natural disasters, war, disease, and government intervention through tariffs or trade restrictions that are of less concern domestically. The Company maintains finished goods inventory in its U.S. facility to mitigate this risk. Finished goods inventory is stocked at an average of approximately 90 days demand per item. Recovery of a single facility through a replacement of supplier in the event of a disaster or suspension of supply could take 120 days. The Company believes that it could restore production of its top twelve selling models (which represent 75% of the Company’s sales revenue) within 1 year. The Company is also at risk if the trade restrictions are introduced on its products based upon country of origin. In addition, most increases in tariffs and freight charges would not be acceptable to pass along to the Company’s customers and would directly impact the Company’s profits. Finally, an additional area of concern for the Company is with the continuing “War on Terror” and the most recent developments in North Korea, Iran, and Lebanon. Three of our largest distributors outside the U.S. have already experienced a general tightening of the availability of credit in recent months, which we believe to be partly a result of certain of these external concerns. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our internet website is http://www.koss.com. The Company makes available free of charge through its internet website the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with (or furnished to) the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These reports and other information regarding the Company are also available on the SEC’s internet website at http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations or prospects, financial or otherwise. 6 REDUCTION IN PRESENT LEVELS OF CASH FLOW COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS The Company’s primary source of liquidity over the past twelve months has been operating cash flows. The Company’s future cash flows from operations (on both a short term and long term basis) are dependent upon, but not limited to: · the Company’s ability to attract new customers that will sell the Company’s products and pay for them, · the Company’s ability to retain the Company’s existing customers at the level of sales previously produced, · the volume of sales for these customers, · the loss of business of one or more primary customers, · changes in types of products that the customers purchase in their sales mix, · the volume of royalty income paid to the Company by its licensees based upon the terms of each royalty agreement, including the inability to negotiate favorable royalty arrangements and renew current arrangements with certain existing favorable terms, · poor or deteriorating economic conditions which would directly impact the ability of the Company’s customers to remain in business and pay for their products on a timely basis, · management’s ability to hold the line on any requests for increases in material or labor cost increases, and · the ability to collect in full and in a timely manner, amounts due to the Company. In addition, as noted above, the Company’s cash flow is also dependent, to some extent, upon the ability to maintain operating margins. If there were a general downturn in economic conditions or other events that caused the Company’s customers to turn to lower-priced, lower-margin products, the Company’s cash flow and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. FAILURE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN CUSTOMERS TO SELL THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT SALES VOLUME AND FUTURE PROFITABILITY The Company markets a line of products used by consumers to listen to music. The Company distributes these products through retail channels in the U.S. and independent distributors throughout the rest of the world. The Company is dependent upon the Company’s ability to retain an existing base of customers to sell the Company’s line of products. Loss of customers means loss of product placement. The Company has broad distribution across many channels including specialty stores, mass merchants, electronics stores and computer retailers. Since distribution is broadly based, any loss of a customer directly translates into a reduction in sales volume which can only be replaced by replacing a similar number of representative retail outlets. The inability of the Company’s sales and marketing staff to obtain new distribution outlets translates into a lack of future growth and possibly a setback in sales volumes when loss of current customers occur. For example, the loss of a customer representing 10% of the Company’s business would translate into a reduction in revenues of up to 10% based upon the point through the fiscal year that the customer was lost. Attracting a new customer during the course of a fiscal year could have a positive impact or simply replace an account which has been lost. In addition, a customer can decide to make a change in the models that it decides to offer for sale. Such changes can take place arbitrarily throughout the course of a year which can cause reductions in sales revenues in proportion to the number of retail outlets that the store represents in the market. The Company may not be able to maintain customers or model selections and therefore experience a reduction in its sales revenue until a model is restored to the mix or a customer is replaced by a new customer. A reduction in sales volume would cause a reduction in 7 profitability. The Company’s failure to retain existing customers, obtain new customers or develop new product lines that customers would choose to offer to consumers could significantly affect the Company’s future profitability. The loss of business of one or more principal customers or a change in the sales volume from a particular customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales volume and profitability. SHIFT IN CUSTOMER SPECIFICATIONS TO LOWER PRICED ITEMS CAN REDUCE PROFIT MARGINS NEGATIVELY IMPACTING PROFITABILITY The Company sells a line of products with a suggested retail price ranging from less than $10 to $1,000. The gross margin for each of these models is unique in terms of percentages. The price range of the products also produces a different level of actual dollar contribution per unit. For example a product with a gross margin contribution of 50% might yield a $5.00 contribution for one item, while another item may feature a 30% gross margin which could yield $50.00. The Company finds the low priced portion of the market most competitive and therefore most subject to pressure on gross margin percentages, which tends to lower profit contributions. Retail preference for lower priced items can reduce profit margins and contributions. The risk is that a shift in retail customer specifications toward lower priced items can lead to lower gross margins and lower profit contributions per unit of sale. Due to the range of products that the Company sells, the product sales mix can produce a variation in terms of a range of profit margins. Some customers sell a limited range of products that yield lower profit margins than others. Most notably, the budget priced headphone segment of the market below $10.00 retail which is distributed through computer stores, office supply stores, and mass market retailers tend to yield the lowest gross margins. An increase in business with these types of accounts, if coupled with a simultaneous reduction in sales to customers with higher gross margins would reduce profit margins and profitability. POOR ECONOMIC CONDITIONS CAN RESTRICT OR LIMIT PRODUCT PLACEMENT, SALES AND REPLENISHMENT WHICH COULD DECREASE PROFITS Deteriorating or weak economic conditions, or a forecast for the same, can trigger changes in inventory stocking at retail. This may in turn lead to a reduction in model offerings and to out of stock situations. If a retail customer of the Company does not have adequate stocks of the Company’s products to offer for sale in a retail store, consumers may choose another competitive model instead. Customers operating retail stores anticipate future sales demands and inventory products accordingly. Whenever a general economic slowdown occurs, at both the domestic or foreign level, sales volume levels and re-orders change. These changes directly impact the Company’s sales and profitability. The Company is not in a position to determine how it will be affected by these circumstances, how extensive the effects may be, or for how long the Company may be impacted by these circumstances. The Company’s customers respond to changes in economic conditions and any adverse changes in economic conditions can therefore restrict product placement, availability, sales, replenishment and ultimately profitability. These conditions exist domestically and internationally. MANAGEMENT IS SUBJECT TO DECISIONS MADE OUTSIDE ITS CONTROL WHICH COULD DIRECTLY AFFECT FUTURE PROFITABILITY Retail customers determine which products they will stock for resale. The Company competes with other manufacturers to secure shelf space in retail stores for the Company’s products. During the course of a year, changes in the customers’ management personnel can ultimately lead to changes in the stock assortment offered to consumers. These changes are often arbitrary. In addition to changes in personnel within the Company’s customers, it is also possible that a strategic decision can be made by a retail customer to consolidate vendors, or to discontinue certain product categories altogether. In these instances, the Company’s management team may not able to convince customers to reverse such 8 decisions. The Company’s management team is also engaged in the effective procurement, assembly, and manufacture of products. The ability to negotiate with suppliers, maintain productivity, and hold the line on cost increases can be subjected to pressures outside the control of management. For example, increases in fuel costs can increase rates of freight. Increases of this nature can seldom be avoided and the Company may not be able to pass such increases along to its customers. Management’s effective control of the manufacturing processes will have a direct impact on the Company’s future profitability. The Company regularly makes decisions that affect production schedules, shipping schedules, employee levels, and inventory levels. The Company’s ability to make effective decisions in managing these areas has a direct effect on future profitability. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AMOUNTS DUE FROM OUR CUSTOMERS CAN BE LOST AS A RESULT OF CUSTOMER BANKRUPTCY, OPERATIONAL DIFFICULTY, OR FAILURE TO PAY, NEGATIVELY IMPACTING FUTURE PROFITABILITY The Company has significant accounts receivable or other amounts due from the Company’s customers. The accounts receivable balance at the end of the last four quarters averaged approximately $8 million. Terms of payment for customers generally range from cash in advance to net 90 day credit terms. These credit arrangements are negotiated at unspecified and irregular intervals. The largest customers generate the largest receivable balances. If a customer develops operational difficulty it is not uncommon to temporarily suspend payment to vendors. The Company is subject to this risk in the retail marketplace. From time to time a customer may develop severe operating losses which can lead to a bankruptcy. In these cases, the Company may lose most of the outstanding balance due. Occasionally, the Company has been current with a customer at the time such an event occurs. The more material risk is that of losing the revenue of the customer which might be more onerous than losing the current outstanding accounts receivable. In addition, many companies that will insure accounts receivables will not do so for the Company’s largest mass market customers. An example of such a loss was KMART Corporation. The Company recorded a loss of approximately $500,000 of which $37,000 was repaid in 2005 and $312,000 in 2004, when KMART filed for re-organization. KMART was current with the Company at the time that KMART filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy in January of 2002. The Company continued to supply KMART during its post petition re-organization and continues to supply the customer profitably today. The risk is that the Company derives most of the Company’s sales revenue and profits from selling products to retailers for resale to consumers. The failure of the Company’s customers to pay in full amounts due to the Company could negatively affect future profitability. COMPANY PROFITS CAN SUFFER FROM INTERRUPTIONS IN SUPPLY CHAIN The Company uses contract manufacturing facilities in Mainland China, Taiwan, and South Korea. These independent supplier entities are distant from the Company which means that the Company is at risk of business interruptions due to natural disaster, war, disease, and government intervention through tariffs or trade restrictions that are of less concern domestically. An additional area of concern for the Company is with the continuing “War on Terror” and the most recent developments in North Korea, Iran, and Lebanon. Three of our largest distributors outside the U.S. have already experienced a general tightening of the availability of credit in recent months, which we believe to be partly a result of certain of these external concerns. Therefore, if there are any interruptions in the supply chain for any of these reasons, this could directly impact the Company’s profits in a negative way. The Company is also at risk if trade restrictions are imposed on the Company’s products based upon country of origin. In addition, any increase in tariffs and freight charges may not be acceptable to pass along to the Company’s customers and could directly impact the Company’s profits. 9 FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES COULD AFFECT PRICING OF PRODUCTS AND CAUSE CUSTOMERS TO PURCHASE LOWER-PRICED, LESS PROFITABLE PRODUCTS AND COULD AFFECT OVERALL DEMAND FOR THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS The Company receives a material portion of its revenue and profits from business in Canada and Europe. To the extent that value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to currencies in those jurisdictions, it increases the cost of the Company’s products in those jurisdictions, which could create negative pressure on the overall demand for the Company’s products. The Company gets paid from its international customers in U.S. dollars. To the extent that increased prices arising from currency fluctuations decrease the overall demand for the Company’s products and the Company’s sales or motivate customers to purchase lower-priced, lower profit products, the Company’s revenues, profits, and cash flows could be adversely affected. CONSISTENCY OF THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS WITH SEVERAL U.S. RETAILERS The Company is particularly concerned about the consistency of business with several U.S. retailers for the coming year. The recent increases in interest rates may again cause U.S. retailers to sharply curtail inventory increases in advance of this year’s holiday season. The Company has already seen some consolidation in product lines, and item elimination, or reductions at several big box retailers this past spring. The Company also recognizes the struggle that many of the Company’s automobile customers have been reporting in the news, and the potential impact that a reduction in automobile unit sales might have upon our ‘rear seat entertainment products’ for the automotive market in the coming fiscal year. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 