ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our operations. The following highlights some of the factors that have affected, and in the future could affect, our operations: • Our inability to identify new sales opportunities or convert sales opportunities into contracts could adversely affect our sales and financial results. • We may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. 5 Table of Contents • We are dependent upon three commercial customers and the United States Government for approximately 79% of the consolidated net sales of the Company. • We are dependent upon three suppliers, each, for more than 10% of the components used in the products manufactured by the Company; and we don’t have any long-term or fixed quantity purchase agreements with suppliers. • We have continued to experience longer lead times and higher costs for nickel and titanium based raw materials which could negatively affect our ability to ship product to our customers. • We may be subject to supply chain disruptions which could negatively affect our ability to ship product to our customers. • While in the past we have been able to pass through to our customers most cost increases attributable to specific raw materials and proprietary components, we may not be able to continue to do so. • Approximately 65% of our sales of military aircraft engine components were attributable to the sale of components used on the F119 and F135. Should the requirements for these products decline significantly, it could negatively affect our sales and financial results. • We are dependent on military programs for a substantial percentage of our revenues and such programs are subject to Congressional funding authorizations which may alter the amount or timing of available funding. • Our growth opportunities are potentially limited by our historical reliance on a few significant customers. • Our largest customer is vertically integrated and has established manufacturing operations outside the United States that provides similar and, in some cases, greater capabilities than we offer. We expect this customer to consider transferring components manufactured by us to these operations. • Because competition for qualified technical and management personnel is intense, we may not be able to recruit or retain qualified personnel, which could harm our business. • The complexity of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, could materially affect our financial results for a given period. • Failure to successfully manage our international operations could harm our financial results. • Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Such provisions include that (i) stockholders cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; (ii) stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings; (iii) the Board of Directors has the sole and exclusive authority to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors that occur between meetings of stockholders called for the election of directors; and (iv) a supermajority vote is required for stockholders to amend the Company’s Amended and Restated Bylaws. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management. • Failure to maintain and adequately monitor internal controls could have a materially adverse effect on our financial results. • A reduction in the U.S. defense budget could result in a substantial decrease in our revenue. A decline in overall U.S. military expenditures could cause a decrease in our revenue and profitability. Defense spending levels may not continue at present levels, and future levels of expenditures and authorizations for existing programs may decline, remain constant, or shift to agencies or programs in areas where we do not currently have contracts. Such changes in spending authorizations and budgeting priorities could occur due to changes in the number and intensity of political conflicts, including the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, the significant relief and recovery costs associated with natural disasters, the rapid growth of the federal budget deficit, increasing political pressure to reduce overall levels of government spending, or other factors. In addition, the U.S. Government conducts periodic reviews of U.S. defense strategies and priorities, the results of which may shift Department of Defense budgetary priorities or reduce overall U.S. Government spending 6 Table of Contents for defense-related programs. A significant decline in defense expenditures, or a shift in expenditures away from agencies or programs that we support, could cause a material decline in our revenue. • The failure by Congress to approve budgets on a timely basis for the U.S. Department of Defense and the other agencies and instrumentalities of the U.S. Government that purchase from us could delay or reduce spending and cause us to lose revenue. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by each of the federal agencies we support. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities and is unable to pass the annual budget on a timely basis, Congress typically enacts a continuing resolution. A continuing resolution allows government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. When government agencies must operate under a continuing resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from customers on work we are already performing and will likely result in any new initiatives being delayed, and potentially cancelled. • Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government clients with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These rights and remedies and related laws and regulations allow government clients, among other things, to: (i) terminate existing contracts, with short notice, for convenience, as well as for default; (ii) reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts; (iii) terminate our facility security clearances and thereby prevent us from receiving classified contracts; (iv) cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; (v) decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract; (vi) claim rights in products and technology produced by us; (vii) prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency due to a finding of organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors; (viii) subject the contract award to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest and may also result in a requirement to resubmit bids for the contract or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract; or (ix) suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government or with a particular governmental agency. • Our failure to comply with complex laws and regulations could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, which affect how we do business with our government clients and may impose added costs on our business. Among the most significant laws and regulations are: (i) the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and agency regulations analogous or supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, including provisions relating to the avoidance of conflicts of interest and intra-organizational conflicts of interest; (ii) the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with some contract negotiations; (iii) the Procurement Integrity Act, which requires evaluation of ethical conflicts surrounding procurement activity and establishing certain employment restrictions for individuals who participate in the procurement process; (iv) the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under some cost-based government contracts; and (v) laws, regulations, and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the importation and exportation of specified products, technologies, and technical data. • We derive significant revenue from federal government contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process. We expect that most of the government business we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding imposes substantial costs and presents a number of risks, including: (i) the need to bid on engagements in advance of knowing the complete design or full requirements, which may result in unforeseen difficulties in executing the engagement and cost overruns; (ii) the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; (iii) the need to accurately estimate the resources and costs that will be required to service any 7 Table of Contents contract we are awarded; (iv) the possibility that difficult market conditions will cause our competitors to strive for growth by reducing their bid pricing and compel us to choose between bidding at unprofitable levels or losing contracts and foregoing revenue; (v) the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract; and (vi) the opportunity cost of not bidding on and winning other contracts we might otherwise pursue. • Our U.S. Government business is subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have a negative effect on our reputation and ability to secure future U.S. Government contracts. • Our contract costs are subject to audits by U.S. Government agencies. U.S. Government representatives may audit the costs we incur on our U.S. Government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. If any audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. • Kreisler Polska exposes us to gains and losses due to foreign currency fluctuations which may have a materially adverse effect on our financial results. • Kreisler Polska and our investment in Poland may be adversely affected by geopolitical events. • We may not be successful with respect to future acquisitions, growth initiatives or other expansion efforts. • New material technologies may permit our customers to use materials that are incompatible with our current production capabilities which may have a negative effect on our financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received written comments from the commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that remain unresolved. 