Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business The semiconductor industry is volatile with sharp periodic downturns and slowdowns Our operating results are significantly affected by the capital expenditures of large semiconductor manufacturers and their subcontract assemblers and vertically integrated manufacturers of electronic systems. Expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and their subcontract assemblers and vertically integrated manufacturers of electronic systems depend on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products that use semiconductors, including personal computers, telecommunications equipment, consumer electronics, and automotive goods. Significant downturns in the market for semiconductor devices or in general economic conditions reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been volatile, with periods of rapid growth followed by industry-wide retrenchment. These periodic downturns and slowdowns have adversely affected our business, financial condition and operating results. They have been characterized by, among other things, diminished product demand, excess production capacity, and accelerated erosion of selling prices. These downturns historically have severely and negatively affected the industry’s demand for capital equipment, including the assembly equipment and the packaging materials that we sell. There can be no assurances regarding levels of demand for our products, and in any case, we believe the historical volatility – both upward and downward – will persist. We may experience increasing price pressure Our historical business strategy for many of our products has focused on product performance and customer service rather than on price. The length and severity of the fiscal 2001 – fiscal 2003 economic downturn increased cost pressure on our customers and we have observed increasing price sensitivity on their part. In response, we are actively seeking to reduce our cost structure by moving operations to lower cost areas and by reducing other operating costs. If we are unable to realize prices that allow us to continue to compete on the basis of performance and service, our financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly and may continue to do so in the future In the past, our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly. We expect that they will continue to fluctuate. Although these fluctuations are partly due to the volatile nature of the semiconductor industry, they also reflect other factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of the factors that may cause our revenues and/or operating margins to fluctuate significantly from period to period are: • market downturns; • the mix of products that we sell because, for example: 10 Table of Contents • some lines of equipment within our business segments are more profitable than others; and • some sales arrangements have higher margins than others; • the volume and timing of orders for our products and any order postponements; • virtually all of our orders are subject to cancellation, deferral or rescheduling by the customer without prior notice and with limited or no penalties; • competitive pricing pressures may force us to reduce prices to retain the business; • higher than anticipated costs of development or production of new equipment models; • the availability and cost of the components for our products; • unanticipated delays in the development and manufacture of our new products and upgraded versions of our products and market acceptance of these products when introduced; • customers’ delay in purchasing our products due to anticipation that we or our competitors may introduce new or upgraded products; and • our competitors’ introduction of new products. Many of our expenses, such as research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses, and interest expense, do not vary directly with our net sales. Our research and development efforts include long-term projects lasting a year or more, which require significant investments. In order to realize the benefits of these projects, we believe that we must continue to fund them during periods when our net sales have declined. As a result, a decline in our net sales would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if we were to incur additional expenses in a quarter in which we did not experience comparable increased net sales, our operating results would decline. In a downturn, we may have excess inventory, which is required to be written off. Some of the other factors that may cause our expenses to fluctuate from period-to-period include: • the timing and extent of our research and development efforts; • severance, resizing, and other costs of relocating facilities; • inventory write-offs due to obsolescence; and • inflationary increases in the cost of labor or materials. Because our revenues and operating results are volatile and difficult to predict, we believe that consecutive period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. We may not be able to rapidly develop, manufacture and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products required to maintain or expand our business We believe that our continued success depends on our ability to continuously develop and manufacture new products and product enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. We must introduce these products and product enhancements into the market in a timely manner in response to customers’ demands for higher performance assembly equipment, leading-edge materials customized to address rapid technological advances in integrated circuits, and capital equipment designs. Our competitors may develop new products or enhancements to their products that offer 11 Table of Contents performance, features and lower prices that may render our products less competitive. The development and commercialization of new products requires significant capital expenditures over an extended period of time, and some products that we seek to develop may never become profitable. In addition, we may not be able to develop and introduce products incorporating new technologies in a timely manner that will satisfy our customers’ future needs or achieve market acceptance. Substantially all of our sales and manufacturing operations are located outside of the United States, and we rely on independent foreign distribution channels for certain product lines; all of which subject us to risks, including risks from changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations, political instability and war Approximately 93% of our net sales for fiscal 2006 and 95% of our net sales for fiscal 2005 and 2004 were to customers located outside of the United States, in particular to customers located in the Asia/Pacific region. Our future performance will depend on our ability to continue to compete in foreign markets, particularly in the Asia/Pacific region. These economies have been highly volatile, resulting in significant fluctuation in local currencies, and political and economic instability. These conditions may continue or worsen, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We also rely on non-United States suppliers for materials and components used in our products, and nearly all of our manufacturing operations are located in countries other than the United States. We manufacture our automatic ball bonders and bonding wire in Singapore, we manufacture capillaries in Israel and China, die bonders in Switzerland and China, bonding wire in Switzerland, and we have sales, service and support personnel in China, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and Europe. We also rely on independent foreign distribution channels for certain of our product lines. As a result, a major portion of our business is subject to the risks associated with international, and particularly Asia/Pacific, commerce, such as: • risks of war and civil disturbances or other events that may limit or disrupt manufacturing and markets; • seizure of our foreign assets, including cash; • longer payment cycles in foreign markets; • international exchange restrictions; • restrictions on the repatriation of our assets, including cash; • significant foreign and United States taxes on repatriated cash; • the difficulties of staffing and managing dispersed international operations; • possible disagreements with tax authorities regarding transfer pricing regulations; • episodic events outside our control such as, for example, an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome or influenza; • tariff and currency fluctuations; • changing political conditions; • labor conditions and costs; • foreign governments’ monetary policies and regulatory requirements; 12 Table of Contents • less protective foreign intellectual property laws; and • legal systems which are less developed and which may be less predictable than those in the United States. Because most of our foreign sales are denominated in United States dollars, an increase in value of the United States dollar against foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese yen, will make our products more expensive than those offered by some of our foreign competitors. Our ability to compete overseas in the future may be materially and adversely affected by a strengthening of the United States dollar against foreign currencies. Our international operations also depend upon favorable trade relations between the United States and those foreign countries in which our customers, subcontractors, and materials suppliers have operations. A protectionist trade environment in either the United States or those foreign countries in which we do business, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance or other trade policies, may materially and adversely affect our ability to sell our products in foreign markets. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Historically, our primary exposures have related to (net) receivables denominated in currencies other than a foreign subsidiaries’ functional currency, and remeasurement of our foreign subsidiaries’ net monetary assets from the subsidiaries’ local currency into the subsidiaries’ functional currency (the U.S. dollar). In general, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could require certain of our foreign subsidiaries to record translation and remeasurement gains. Conversely, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar could require certain of our foreign subsidiaries to record losses on translation and remeasurement. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials. An increase in the value of China’s Yuan could increase our material, labor, and other operating expenses in China. Our board has granted management with limited authority to enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and other instruments designed to minimize the short term impact currency fluctuations have on our business. We have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts and expect to enter into additional foreign exchange forward contracts and other instruments in the future. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful and may result in a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. We may not be able to consolidate manufacturing facilities without incurring unanticipated costs and disruptions to our business As part of our ongoing efforts to further reduce our cost structure, we seek to consolidate our manufacturing facilities. We may incur significant and unexpected costs, delays and disruptions to our business during this consolidation process. Because of unanticipated events, including the actions of governments, suppliers, employees or customers, we may not realize the synergies, cost reductions and other benefits of any consolidation to the extent or within the timeframe that we currently expect. Our business depends on attracting and retaining management, marketing and technical employees Our future success depends on our ability to hire and retain qualified management, marketing and technical employees. In particular, we periodically experience shortages of technical personnel. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain the managerial, marketing and technical personnel we require, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Difficulties in forecasting demand for our product lines may lead to periodic inventory shortages or excesses We typically operate our business with limited visibility of future demand. As a result, we sometimes experience inventory shortages or excesses. We generally order supplies and otherwise plan our production based on internal 13 Table of Contents forecasts of demand. We have in the past, and may again in the future, fail to forecast accurately demand for our products, in terms of both volume and configuration for either our current or next-generation wire bonders. This has led to and may in the future lead to delays in product shipments or, alternatively, an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. If we fail to forecast accurately demand for our products, including assembly equipment and packaging materials, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Advanced packaging technologies other than wire bonding may render some of our products obsolete Advanced packaging technologies have emerged that may improve device performance or reduce the size of an integrated circuit package, as compared to traditional die and wire bonding. These technologies include flip chip and chip scale packaging. Some of these advanced technologies eliminate the need for wires to establish the electrical connection between a die and its package. The semiconductor industry may, in the future, shift a significant part of its volume into advanced packaging technologies, such as those discussed above, which do not employ our products. If a significant shift to advanced packaging technologies were to occur, demand for our equipment and related packaging materials may be materially and adversely affected. Because a small number of customers account for most of our sales, our revenues could decline if we lose a significant customer The semiconductor manufacturing industry is highly concentrated, with a relatively small number of large semiconductor manufacturers and their subcontract assemblers and vertically integrated manufacturers of electronic systems purchasing a substantial portion of our semiconductor assembly equipment and packaging materials. Sales to a relatively small number of customers account for a significant percentage of our net sales. During fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, sales to Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, our largest customer accounted for 17%, 15% and 19%, respectively, of our net sales. We expect that sales of our products to a small number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. Thus, our business success depends on our ability to maintain strong relationships with our important customers. Any one of a number of factors could adversely affect these relationships. If, for example, during periods of escalating demand for our equipment, we were unable to add inventory and production capacity quickly enough to meet the needs of our customers, they may turn to other suppliers making it more difficult for us to retain their business. Similarly, if we are unable for any other reason to meet production or delivery schedules, particularly during a period of escalating demand, our relationships with our key customers could be adversely affected. If we lose orders from a significant customer, or if a significant customer reduces its orders substantially, these losses or reductions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend on a small number of suppliers for raw materials, components and subassemblies. If our suppliers do not deliver their products to us, we would be unable to deliver our products to our customers Our products are complex and require raw materials, components and subassemblies having a high degree of reliability, accuracy and performance. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture many of these components and subassemblies and we rely on sole source suppliers for some important components and raw materials, including gold. As a result, we are exposed to a number of significant risks, including: • lack of control over the manufacturing process for components and subassemblies; • Changes in our manufacturing processes, in response to changes in the market, which may delay our shipments; • our inadvertent use of defective or contaminated raw materials; • the relatively small operations and limited manufacturing resources of some of our suppliers, which may limit their ability to manufacture and sell subassemblies, components or parts in the volumes we require and at acceptable quality levels and prices; 14 Table of Contents • reliability or quality problems with certain key subassemblies provided by single source suppliers as to which we may not have any short term alternative; • shortages caused by disruptions at our suppliers and subcontractors for a variety of reasons, including work stoppage or fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters; • delays in the delivery of raw materials or subassemblies, which, in turn, may delay our shipments; and • the loss of suppliers as a result of consolidation of suppliers in the industry. If we are unable to deliver products to our customers on time for these or any other reasons; if we are unable to meet customer expectations as to cycle time; or if we do not maintain acceptable product quality or reliability, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Diversification into multiple businesses increases demands on our management and systems We recently acquired Alphasem, a manufacturer of die bonders, and may from time to time in the future seek to expand through further acquisition. Significant acquisitions increase demands on management, financial resources and information and internal control systems. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses with our existing businesses and to successfully implement, improve and expand our systems, procedures and controls. If we fail to integrate businesses successfully or to develop the necessary internal procedures to manage diversified businesses, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to continue to compete successfully in the highly competitive semiconductor equipment and packaging materials industries The semiconductor equipment and packaging materials industries are very competitive. In the semiconductor equipment, significant competitive factors include performance, quality, customer support and price. In the semiconductor packaging materials industry, competitive factors include price, delivery and quality. In each of our markets, we face competition and the threat of competition from established competitors and potential new entrants. In addition, established competitors may combine to form larger, better capitalized companies. Some of our competitors have or may have significantly greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. Some of these competitors are Asian and European companies that have had and may continue to have an advantage over us in supplying products to local customers who appear to prefer to purchase from local suppliers, without regard to other considerations. We expect our competitors to improve their current products’ performance, and to introduce new products and materials with improved price and performance characteristics. Our competitors may independently develop technology that is similar to or better than ours. New product and materials introductions by our competitors or by new market entrants could hurt our sales. If a particular semiconductor manufacturer or subcontract assembler selects a competitor’s product or materials for a particular assembly operation, we may not be able to sell products or materials to that manufacturer or assembler for a significant period of time because manufacturers and assemblers sometimes develop lasting relations with suppliers, and assembly equipment in our industry often goes years without requiring replacement. In addition, we may have to lower our prices in response to price cuts by our competitors, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete in these or other areas in the future. If we cannot compete successfully, we could be forced to reduce prices, and could lose customers and market share and experience reduced margins and profitability. Our success depends in part on our intellectual property, which we may be unable to protect Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. To protect this technology, we rely principally on 15 Table of Contents contractual restrictions (such as nondisclosure and confidentiality provisions) in our agreements with employees, subcontractors, vendors, consultants and customers and on the common law of trade secrets and proprietary “know-how.” We also rely, in some cases, on patent and copyright protection. We may not be successful in protecting our technology for a number of reasons, including the following: • employees, subcontractors, vendors, consultants and customers may violate their contractual agreements, and the cost of enforcing those agreements may be prohibitive, or those agreements may be unenforceable or more limited than we anticipate; • foreign intellectual property laws may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights; • our patent and copyright claims may not be sufficiently broad to effectively protect our technology; our patents or copyrights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; or we may otherwise be unable to obtain adequate protection for our technology. In addition, our partners and alliances may also have rights to technology that we develop. We may incur significant expense to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may be weakened. Third parties may claim we are infringing on their intellectual property, which could cause us to incur significant litigation costs or other expenses, or prevent us from selling some of our products The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, with frequent introductions of new products and technologies. Industry participants often develop products and features similar to those introduced by others, creating a risk that their products and processes may give rise to claims that they infringe on the intellectual property of others. We may unknowingly infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and incur significant liability for that infringement. If we are found to have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, we could be enjoined from continuing to manufacture, market or use the affected product, or be required to obtain a license to continue manufacturing or using the affected product. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing or re-engineering our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly, impractical or time consuming. Occasionally, third parties assert that we are, or may be, infringing on or misappropriating their intellectual property rights. In these cases, we will defend against claims or negotiate licenses where we consider these actions appropriate. Intellectual property cases are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. If we become involved in this type of litigation, it could consume significant resources and divert our attention from our business. We may be materially and adversely affected by environmental and safety laws and regulations We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, use, emission, discharge, transportation and disposal of hazardous material, investigation and remediation of contaminated sites and the health and safety of our employees. Increasingly, public attention has focused on the environmental impact of manufacturing operations and the risk to neighbors of chemical releases from such operations. Proper waste disposal plays an important role in the operation of our manufacturing plants. In many of our facilities we maintain wastewater treatment systems that remove metals and other contaminants from process wastewater. These facilities operate under permits that must be renewed periodically. A violation of those permits may lead to revocation of the permits, fines, penalties or the incurrence of capital or other costs to comply with the permits, including potential shutdown of operations. In the future, existing or new land use and environmental regulations may: (1) impose upon us the need for additional capital equipment or other process requirements, (2) restrict our ability to expand our operations, (3) subject us to liability for, among other matters, remediation, and/or (4) cause us to curtail our operations. We cannot 16 Table of Contents assure you that any costs or liabilities associated with complying with these environmental laws will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and under Pennsylvania law may discourage other companies from attempting to acquire us Some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws as well as Pennsylvania law may discourage some transactions where we would otherwise experience a fundamental change. For example, our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that: • Classify our board of directors into four classes, with one class being elected each year; • permit our board to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval; and • Prohibit us from engaging in some types of business combinations with a holder of 20% or more of our voting securities without super-majority board or stockholder approval. Further, under the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law, because our bylaws provide for a classified board of directors, stockholders may remove directors only for cause. These provisions and some other provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law could delay, defer or prevent us from experiencing a fundamental change and may adversely affect our common stockholders’ voting and other rights. Terrorist attacks, or other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which we operate and our profitability Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or United States businesses. Terrorist attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Our primary facilities include administrative, sales and R&D facilities in the United States and manufacturing facilities in the United States, Singapore, Switzerland, China and Israel. Additional terrorist attacks may disrupt the global insurance and reinsurance industries with the result that we may not be able to obtain insurance at historical terms and levels for all of our facilities. Furthermore, additional attacks may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more expensive and ultimately affect the sales of our products in the United States and overseas. Additional attacks or any broader conflict, could negatively impact on our domestic and international sales, our supply chain, our production capability and our ability to deliver products to our customers. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world could negatively impact our business. The consequences of terrorist attacks or armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to generate enough cash to repay our debt Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and other activities will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. If our convertible debt is not converted to our common shares, we will be required to make annual cash interest payments of $1.3 million in each of fiscal years 2007 and 2008, $0.8 million in fiscal 2009 and $0.5 million in fiscal 2010 on our aggregate $195.0 million of convertible subordinated debt. Principal payments of $130.0 million and $65.0 million on the convertible subordinated debt are due in fiscal 2009 and 2010, respectively. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness is affected by the volatile nature of our business, and general economic, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our indebtedness poses risks to our business, including that: • insufficient cash flow from operations to repay our outstanding indebtedness when it becomes due may force us to sell assets, or seek additional capital, which we may be unable to do at all or on terms favorable to us; and • our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash in an amount sufficient to enable us to service interest, principal and other payments on our debt, including the notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We are not restricted under the 17 Table of Contents agreements governing our existing indebtedness from incurring additional debt in the future. If new debt is added to our current levels, our leverage and our debt service obligations would increase and the related risks described above could intensify. We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities will result in dilution of existing stockholders’ equity interests in us. Our board of directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. In addition, we are authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to an aggregate of 200 million shares of common stock, of which approximately 57.2 million shares were outstanding as of September 30, 2006. We are also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, securities convertible into either shares of common stock or preferred stock. Weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures could result in material misstatements in our financial statements Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal controls over financial reporting are processes designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Management determined that a material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of September 30, 2006. See Item 9A — Controls and Procedures for a description of this material weakness. We have begun to implement measures designed to remediate the material weakness in our internal controls by September 30, 2007 (See Item 9A — Controls and Procedures). We cannot assure you as to when the remediation measures will be fully implemented, nor can we assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified by our management or independent accountants in the future. In addition, even after the remediation measures are fully implemented, our internal controls may not prevent all potential errors or fraud, because any control system, no matter how well designed and implemented, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system will be achieved. 18 Table of Contents 