Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The semiconductor industry is volatile with sharp periodic downturns and slowdowns. Our operating results are significantly affected by the capital expenditures of large semiconductor manufacturers and their subcontract assemblers and vertically integrated manufacturers of electronic systems. Expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and their subcontract assemblers and vertically integrated manufacturers of electronic systems depend on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products that use semiconductors, including personal computers, telecommunications equipment, consumer electronics, and automotive goods. Significant downturns in the market for semiconductor devices or in general economic conditions reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been volatile, with periods of rapid growth followed by industry-wide retrenchment. These periodic downturns and slowdowns have adversely affected our business, financial condition and operating results. They have been characterized by, among other things, diminished product demand, excess production capacity, and accelerated erosion of selling prices. These downturns historically have severely and negatively affected the industry’s demand for capital equipment, including the assembly equipment and the packaging materials that we sell. There can be no assurances regarding levels of demand for our products, and in any case, we believe the historical volatility – both upward and downward – will persist. We may experience increasing price pressure. Our historical business strategy for many of our products had focused on product performance and customer service rather than on price. We now continually seek to reduce our cost structure by moving operations to lower cost areas and by reducing other operating costs. If we are unable to realize prices that allow us to continue to compete on the basis of performance and service, our financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly and may continue to do so in the future. In the past, our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly. We expect quarterly results will continue to fluctuate. Although these fluctuations are partly due to the volatile nature of the semiconductor industry, they also reflect other factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of the factors that may cause our net revenues and/or operating margins to fluctuate significantly from period to period are: • market downturns; • the mix of products we sell because, for example: • certain lines of equipment within our business segments are more profitable than others; and • some sales arrangements have higher gross margins than others; • cancelled or deferred orders; • competitive pricing pressures may force us to reduce prices; • higher than anticipated costs of development or production of new equipment models; • the availability and cost of the components for our products; 9 Table of Contents • delays in the development and manufacture of our new products and upgraded versions of our products and market acceptance of these products when introduced; • customers’ delay in purchasing our products due to anticipation that we or our competitors may introduce new or upgraded products; and • our competitors’ introduction of new products. Many of our expenses, such as research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses, and interest expense, do not vary directly with our net revenue. Our research and development efforts include long-term projects lasting a year or more, which require significant investments. In order to realize the benefits of these projects, we believe that we must continue to fund them during periods when our revenue has declined. As a result, a decline in our net revenue would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if we were to incur additional expenses in a quarter in which we did not experience comparable increased net revenue, our operating results would decline. In a downturn, we may have excess inventory, which is required to be written off. Some of the other factors that may cause our expenses to fluctuate from period-to-period include: • the timing and extent of our research and development efforts; • severance, resizing, and other costs of relocating facilities; • inventory write-offs due to obsolescence; and • increases in the cost of labor or materials. Because our revenue and operating results are volatile and difficult to predict, we believe consecutive period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. We may not be able to rapidly develop, manufacture and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products required to maintain or expand our business. We believe our continued success depends on our ability to continuously develop and manufacture new products and product enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. We must introduce these products and product enhancements into the market in a timely manner in response to customers’ demands for higher performance assembly equipment, leading-edge materials customized to address rapid technological advances in integrated circuits, and capital equipment designs. Our competitors may develop new products or enhancements to their products that offer performance, features and lower prices that may render our products less competitive. The development and commercialization of new products requires significant capital expenditures over an extended period of time, and some products that we seek to develop may never become profitable. In addition, we may not be able to develop and introduce products incorporating new technologies in a timely manner that will satisfy our customers’ future needs or achieve market acceptance. Substantially all of our sales and manufacturing operations are located outside of the United States, and we rely on independent foreign distribution channels for certain product lines; all of which subject us to risks, including risks from changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations, political instability and war. Approximately 95%, 93% and 96% of our net sales for fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, were to customers located outside of the United States, in particular to customers located in the Asia/Pacific region. Our future performance will depend on our ability to continue to compete in foreign markets, particularly in the Asia/Pacific region. These economies have been highly volatile, resulting in significant fluctuation in local currencies, and political and economic instability. These conditions may continue or worsen, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 10 Table of Contents We also rely on non-United States suppliers for materials and components used in our products, and nearly all of our manufacturing operations are located in countries other than the United States. We manufacture our bonders and bonding wire in Singapore, we manufacture bonding tools in Israel and China, die bonders in Switzerland and China, bonding wire in Switzerland, and we have sales, service and support personnel in China, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand and throughout Europe. We also rely on independent foreign distribution channels for certain of our product lines. As a result, a major portion of our business is subject to the risks associated with international, and particularly Asia/Pacific, commerce, such as: • risks of war and civil disturbances or other events that may limit or disrupt manufacturing and markets; • seizure of our foreign assets, including cash; • longer payment cycles in foreign markets; • international exchange restrictions; • restrictions on the repatriation of our assets, including cash; • significant foreign and United States taxes on repatriated cash; • the difficulties of staffing and managing dispersed international operations; • possible disagreements with tax authorities regarding transfer pricing regulations; • episodic events outside our control such as, for example, an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome or influenza; • tariff and currency fluctuations; • changing political conditions; • labor conditions and costs; • foreign governments’ monetary policies and regulatory requirements; • less protective foreign intellectual property laws; and • legal systems which are less developed and which may be less predictable than those in the United States. Because most of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, an increase in value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, will make our products more expensive than those offered by some of our foreign competitors. Our ability to compete overseas in the future may be materially and adversely affected by a strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. Our international operations also depend upon favorable trade relations between the United States and those foreign countries in which our customers, subcontractors, and materials suppliers have operations. A protectionist trade environment in either the United States or those foreign countries in which we do business, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance or other trade policies, may materially and adversely affect our ability to sell our products in foreign markets. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Historically, our primary exposures have related to net working capital exposures denominated in currencies other than a 11 Table of Contents foreign subsidiaries’ functional currency, and remeasurement of our foreign subsidiaries’ net monetary assets from the subsidiaries’ local currency into the subsidiaries’ functional currency. In general, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could require certain of our foreign subsidiaries to record translation and remeasurement gains. Conversely, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar could require certain of our foreign subsidiaries to record losses on translation and remeasurement. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in U.S. dollars, and a weakened U.S. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials. Our primary exposures include the Swiss Franc, the Chinese Yuan, the Euro, Singapore dollar, Israeli Shekel and the Japanese Yen. Our board of directors has granted management with limited authority to enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and other instruments designed to minimize the short term impact currency fluctuations have on our business. We have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts and expect to enter into additional foreign exchange forward contracts and other instruments in the future. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful and may result in a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Rising gold prices increase our working capital requirements. Liquidity required to support the working capital requirements of our wire business is directly impacted by the price of gold. As the price of gold rises, our working capital needs increase which reduces our return on invested capital and limits the amount of cash available for other corporate purposes. Additionally, if the standby letters of credit we use to support our gold financing arrangement were to become unavailable, we would have to provide new letters of credit or cash of an equivalent amount as security. We may not be able to consolidate manufacturing facilities without incurring unanticipated costs and disruptions to our business. As part of our ongoing efforts to further reduce our cost structure, we may seek to consolidate our manufacturing facilities. If this occurred, we may incur significant and unexpected costs, delays and disruptions to our business during this consolidation process. Because of unanticipated events, including the actions of governments, suppliers, employees or customers, we may not realize the synergies, cost reductions and other benefits of any consolidation to the extent or within the timeframe that we currently expect. Our business depends on attracting and retaining management, marketing and technical employees. Our future success depends on our ability to hire and retain qualified management, marketing and technical employees. In particular, we periodically experience shortages of technical personnel. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain the managerial, marketing and technical personnel we require, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Difficulties in forecasting demand for our product lines may lead to periodic inventory shortages or excesses. We typically operate our business with limited visibility of future demand. As a result, we sometimes experience inventory shortages or excesses. We generally order supplies and otherwise plan our production based on internal forecasts for demand. We have in the past, and may again in the future, fail to forecast accurately demand for our products, in terms of both volume and configuration for either our current or next-generation wire bonders. This has led to and may in the future lead to delays in product shipments or, alternatively, an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. If we fail to forecast accurately demand for our products, including assembly equipment and packaging materials, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Alternative packaging technologies other than wire bonding may render some of our products obsolete. Alternative packaging technologies have emerged that may improve device performance or reduce the size of an integrated circuit package, as compared to traditional die and wire bonding. These technologies include flip chip and chip scale packaging. Some of these alternative technologies eliminate the need for wires to establish the electrical connection between a die and its package. The semiconductor industry may, in the future, shift a significant part of its volume into alternative packaging technologies, such as those discussed above, which do not employ our products. If a significant shift to alternative packaging technologies were to occur, demand for our equipment and related packaging materials may be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Because a small number of customers account for most of our sales, our revenues could decline if we lose a significant customer. The semiconductor manufacturing industry is highly concentrated, with a relatively small number of large semiconductor manufacturers and their subcontract assemblers and vertically integrated manufacturers of electronic systems purchasing a substantial portion of our semiconductor assembly equipment and packaging materials. Sales to a relatively small number of customers account for a significant percentage of our net sales. During fiscal 2005, 2006, and 2007, sales in the aggregate to Advanced Semiconductor Engineering and ST Microelectronics, our largest customers accounted for 22.6%, 29.0% and 30.6%, respectively, of our net revenue. We expect that sales of our products to a small number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. Thus, our business success depends on our ability to maintain strong relationships with our customers. Any one of a number of factors could adversely affect these relationships. If, for example, during periods of escalating demand for our equipment, we were unable to add inventory and production capacity quickly enough to meet the needs of our customers, they may turn to other suppliers making it more difficult for us to retain their business. Similarly, if we are unable for any other reason to meet production or delivery schedules, particularly during a period of escalating demand, our relationships with our key customers could be adversely affected. If we lose orders from a significant customer, or if a significant customer reduces its orders substantially, these losses or reductions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend on a small number of suppliers for raw materials, components and subassemblies. If our suppliers do not deliver their products to us, we would be unable to deliver our products to our customers. Our products are complex and require raw materials, components and subassemblies having a high degree of reliability, accuracy and performance. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture many of these components and subassemblies and we rely on sole source suppliers for some important components and raw materials, including gold. As a result, we are exposed to a number of significant risks, including: • lack of control over the manufacturing process for components and subassemblies; • changes in our manufacturing processes, in response to changes in the market, which may delay our shipments; • our inadvertent use of defective or contaminated raw materials; • the relatively small operations and limited manufacturing resources of some of our suppliers, which may limit their ability to manufacture and sell subassemblies, components or parts in the volumes we require and at acceptable quality levels and prices; • reliability or quality problems with certain key subassemblies provided by single source suppliers as to which we may not have any short term alternative; • shortages caused by disruptions at our suppliers and subcontractors for a variety of reasons, including work stoppage or fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters; • delays in the delivery of raw materials or subassemblies, which, in turn, may delay our shipments; and • the loss of suppliers as a result of consolidation of suppliers in the industry. If we are unable to deliver products to our customers on time for these or any other reasons; if we are unable to meet customer expectations as to cycle time; or if we do not maintain acceptable product quality or reliability, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We may acquire or divest businesses or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances, which may materially affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We continually evaluate our portfolio of businesses and may decide to buy or sell businesses or enter into joint ventures or other strategic alliances. During fiscal 2007, we acquired Alphasem, a manufacturer of die bonders, and may from time to time in the future seek to acquire or divest other businesses or enter into alliances with other companies. Significant acquisitions and alliances may increase demands on management, engineering, financial resources and information and internal control systems. Our success with respect to acquisitions and alliances will depend, in part, on our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses and alliances with our existing businesses and to successfully implement, improve and expand our systems, procedures and controls. In addition, we may divest existing businesses, which would cause a decline in revenues and may make our financial results more volatile. If we fail to integrate and manage acquired businesses successfully or to manage the risks associated with divestitures, joint ventures or other alliances, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to continue to compete successfully in the highly competitive semiconductor equipment and packaging materials industries. The semiconductor equipment and packaging materials industries are very competitive. In the semiconductor equipment, significant competitive factors include performance, quality, customer support and price. In the semiconductor packaging materials industry, competitive factors include price, delivery and quality. In each of our markets, we face competition and the threat of competition from established competitors and potential new entrants. In addition, established competitors may combine to form larger, better capitalized companies. Some of our competitors have or may have significantly greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources. Some of these competitors are Asian and European companies that have had, and may continue to have, an advantage over us in supplying products to local customers who appear to prefer to purchase from local suppliers, without regard to other considerations. We expect our competitors to improve their current products’ performance, and to introduce new products and materials with improved price and performance characteristics. Our competitors may independently develop technology that is similar to or better than ours. New product and materials introductions by our competitors or by new market entrants could hurt our sales. If a particular semiconductor manufacturer or subcontract assembler selects a competitor’s product or materials for a particular assembly operation, we may not be able to sell products or materials to that manufacturer or assembler for a significant period of time. Manufacturers and assemblers sometimes develop lasting relationships with suppliers, and assembly equipment providers in our industry often go years without requiring replacement. In addition, we may have to lower our prices in response to price cuts by our competitors, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we cannot compete successfully, we could be forced to reduce prices, and could lose customers and market share and experience reduced margins and profitability. Our success depends in part on our intellectual property, which we may be unable to protect. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. To protect this technology, we rely principally on contractual restrictions (such as nondisclosure and confidentiality provisions) in our agreements with employees, subcontractors, vendors, consultants and customers and on the common law of trade secrets and proprietary “know-how.” We also rely, in some cases, on patent and copyright protection. We may not be successful in protecting our technology for a number of reasons, including the following: • employees, subcontractors, vendors, consultants and customers may violate their contractual agreements, and the cost of enforcing those agreements may be prohibitive, or those agreements may be unenforceable or more limited than we anticipate; • foreign intellectual property laws may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights; and • our patent and copyright claims may not be sufficiently broad to effectively protect our technology; our patents or copyrights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; or we may otherwise be unable to obtain adequate protection for our technology. 14 Table of Contents In addition, our partners and alliances may also have rights to technology that we develop. We may incur significant expense to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may be weakened. Third parties may claim we are infringing on their intellectual property, which could cause us to incur significant litigation costs or other expenses, or prevent us from selling some of our products. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, with frequent introductions of new products and technologies. Industry participants often develop products and features similar to those introduced by others, creating a risk that their products and processes may give rise to claims that they infringe on the intellectual property of others. We may unknowingly infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and incur significant liability for that infringement. If we are found to have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, we could be enjoined from continuing to manufacture, market or use the affected product, or be required to obtain a license to continue manufacturing or using the affected product. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing or re-engineering our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly, impractical or time consuming. Occasionally, third parties assert that we are, or may be, infringing on or misappropriating their intellectual property rights. In these cases, we will defend against claims or negotiate licenses where we consider these actions appropriate. Intellectual property cases are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. If we become involved in this type of litigation, it could consume significant resources and divert our attention from our business. We may be materially and adversely affected by environmental and safety laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, use, emission, discharge, transportation and disposal of hazardous material, investigation and remediation of contaminated sites and the health and safety of our employees. Increasingly, public attention has focused on the environmental impact of manufacturing operations and the risk to neighbors of chemical releases from such operations. Proper waste disposal plays an important role in the operation of our manufacturing plants. In many of our facilities we maintain wastewater treatment systems that remove metals and other contaminants from process wastewater. These facilities operate under permits that must be renewed periodically. A violation of those permits may lead to revocation of the permits, fines, penalties or the incurrence of capital or other costs to comply with the permits, including potential shutdown of operations. Compliance with existing or future, land use, environmental and health and safety laws and regulations may: (1) result in significant costs to us for additional capital equipment or other process requirements, (2) restrict our ability to expand our operations and/or (3) cause us to curtail our operations. We also could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines or other sanctions and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under such laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that any costs or liabilities to comply with or imposed under these laws and regulations will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to generate enough cash to repay our debt. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and other activities will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. If our convertible debt is not converted to shares of our common stock, we will be required to make annual cash interest payments of $2.0 million in fiscal 2008, $1.8 million in fiscal 2009, $1.6 million in fiscal 2010, $1.0 million in fiscal 2011 and $1.0 million in fiscal 2012 on an aggregate $251.4 million of convertible subordinated debt (assuming that we do not purchase any additional outstanding 0.5% Convertible Notes). Principal payments of $76.4 million, $65.0 million and $110.0 million on the convertible subordinated debt are due in fiscal 2009, 2010 and 2012, respectively. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness is affected by the volatile nature of our business, and general economic, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our indebtedness poses risks to our business, including that: • insufficient cash flow from operations to repay our outstanding indebtedness when it becomes due may force us to sell assets, or seek additional capital, which we may be unable to do at all or on terms favorable to us; and 15 Table of Contents • our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash in an amount sufficient to enable us to service interest, principal and other payments on our debt, including the notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We are not restricted under the agreements governing our existing indebtedness from incurring additional debt in the future. If new debt is added to our current levels, our leverage and our debt service obligations would increase and the related risks described above could intensify. We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities will result in dilution of existing stockholders’ equity interests in us. Our board of directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. In addition, we are authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to an aggregate of 200 million shares of common stock, of which approximately 53.2 million shares were outstanding as of September 29, 2007. We are also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, securities convertible into either shares of common stock or preferred stock. Weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal controls over financial reporting are processes designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Our internal controls may not prevent all potential errors or fraud, because any control system, no matter how well designed and implemented, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system will be achieved. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accountants will not in the future identify other material weaknesses in our internal controls, which could adversely affect our ability to insure proper financial reporting and could affect investor confidence in us and the price of our common stock. Accounting methods, including but not limited to the accounting method for convertible debt securities with net share settlement, such as our 0.875% Subordinated Convertible Notes, may be subject to change. In calculating our diluted earnings per share, we currently account for the 0.875% Subordinated Convertible Notes in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 90-19, Convertible Bonds with Issuer Option to Settle for Cash upon Conversion (“EITF 90-19”). The accounting method for a convertible debt security that meets the requirements of EITF 90-19 is similar to the accounting for non-convertible debt. We recognize interest expense at the stated coupon rate, and shares potentially issuable upon conversion of the debt are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share until the market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price (i.e., the conversion price is “in the money”). Once the conversion price is in the money, the shares that we would issue upon assumed conversion of the debt are included in the calculation of fully diluted earnings per share using the “treasury stock” method. No separate value is attributed to the conversion feature of the debt at the time of issuance. The FASB has issued a proposed Staff Position (“FSP”) APB 14-a, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (“FSP APB 14-a”) that would apply to any convertible debt instrument that may be settled in whole or in part with cash upon conversion. If adopted, FSP APB 14-a would require separate accounting for the debt and equity components of the security. Under the proposed FSP APB 14-a, the value assigned to the debt at the time of issuance (the “debt component”) would be its estimated fair value, based on a similar debt issue without the conversion feature. The difference between the debt component and the par value of the debt would be accounted for as an original discount and included in stockholder’s equity as paid-in capital (the “equity component”). The original issue discount would be amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt, with a corresponding accretion of the debt component to its par value. Shares that we would issue upon assumed conversion of the debt would continue to be included in the calculation of fully diluted earnings per share using the treasury stock method when the conversion price is in the money. 16 Table of Contents As compared to the current accounting method, the proposal would reduce the amount recognized as debt and increase the amount recognized as stockholder’s equity at the time of issuance. The amount of debt recognized at time of issuance would increase over the life of the notes, with a corresponding reduction of net income and earnings per share (net of tax), for the amortization of the original issue discount. If the proposed FSP APB 14-a is adopted, we would be required to adopt it as of the beginning of fiscal 2009, with retrospective application to financial statements for periods prior to the date of adoption. We cannot predict whether or not the FASB will adopt the proposed FSP APB 14-a, and we cannot predict the adoption of any other changes in generally accepted accounting principals that may affect the accounting for convertible debt securities. Any such change in the accounting method for convertible debt securities could have an adverse impact on our reported or future results of operations or financial position, and could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock or the trading price of the notes. Other Risks Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and under Pennsylvania law may discourage other companies from attempting to acquire us. Some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws as well as Pennsylvania law may discourage some transactions where we would otherwise experience a fundamental change. For example, our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that: • classify our board of directors into four classes, with one class being elected each year; • permit our board to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval; and • prohibit us from engaging in some types of business combinations with a holder of 20% or more of our voting securities without super-majority board or stockholder approval. Further, under the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law, because our shareholders approved bylaw provisions that provide for a classified board of directors, stockholders may remove directors only for cause. These provisions and some other provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law could delay, defer or prevent us from experiencing a fundamental change and may adversely affect our common stockholders’ voting and other rights. Terrorist attacks, or other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or United States businesses. Terrorist attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Our primary facilities include administrative, sales and research and development facilities in the United States and manufacturing facilities in the United States, Singapore, Switzerland, China and Israel. Additional terrorist attacks may disrupt the global insurance and reinsurance industries with the result that we may not be able to obtain insurance at historical terms and levels for all of our facilities. Furthermore, additional attacks may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more expensive and ultimately affect the sales of our products in the United States and overseas. Additional attacks or any broader conflict, could negatively impact on our domestic and international sales, our supply chain, our production capability and our ability to deliver products to our customers. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world could negatively impact our business. The consequences of terrorist attacks or armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. Provisions of our Subordinated Convertible Notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our outstanding Subordinated Convertible Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of the Subordinated Convertible Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of notes to be 17 Table of Contents repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interent, plus a premium, if applicable. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the 0.875% Subordinated Convertible Notes, we may not enter into certain mergers unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes all of our obligations under the indenture and the notes. 