ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ------------ We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. Additional risks presently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial or unlikely to occur could also impair our operations. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS THE MATTERS RELATING TO THE INVESTIGATION BY THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE RESTATEMENT IN PRIOR PERIODS OF THE COMPANY'S CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MAY RESULT IN ADDITIONAL LITIGATION AND GOVERNMENT ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS. In October 2006, the Board of Directors formed a Special Committee of independent directors to conduct an investigation, with the assistance of independent legal counsel and forensic accounting experts, of our past stock option grant practices over the period January 1, 1995 through October 31, 2006. The investigation concluded that no employee, officer or director of the Company engaged in any intentional wrongdoing or was aware that the Company's policies and procedures for granting and accounting for stock options were materially noncompliant with GAAP. The investigation also concluded that there was no intentional violation of law or accounting rules with respect to the Company's historical stock option grant practices. The Special Committee concluded, and based on its internal review, management agreed, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants made in certain prior periods. Therefore, we recorded 19 additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, with regard to certain past stock option grants, and we restated certain previously filed financial statements included in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2007. The independent investigation and management's internal review and related activities required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, diverted some of our management's attention from the Company's business, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While we believe we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, based upon the Special Committee's findings and in consultation with outside experts and our independent registered public accounting firm, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact in our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, there is a risk we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated by us. Our past stock option grant practices and the restatement of prior financial statements have exposed the Company to risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. As described in Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Commitments and Contingencies," derivative lawsuits were filed in state and federal courts against certain current and former directors and executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. The parties recently agreed to settle these derivative lawsuits, subject to court approval. Also, the Company was notified by the SEC in December 2007 that it had issued a formal order of investigation with respect to the Company's stock option plans, grants, exercises and accounting practices. If the Company is subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The resolution of these matters could continue to be time-consuming, expensive, and a distraction to some of our management from the conduct of the Company's business. WE HAVE A MATERIAL WEAKNESS IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING AND CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT ADDITIONAL MATERIAL WEAKNESSES WILL NOT BE IDENTIFIED IN THE FUTURE. IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN AN EFFECTIVE SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS OR DISCOVER MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REPORT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS ACCURATELY OR TIMELY OR DETECT FRAUD, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Management concluded that there was a material weakness, as defined in the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's Auditing Standard No. 5, in our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2008. Management is implementing steps to remediate this material weakness, however, we cannot assure you that such remediation will be effective. Management also concluded there were material weaknesses, as defined in the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's Auditing Standard No. 2, in our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2007. Management implemented steps to remediate these material weaknesses as of March 31, 2008. See the discussion included in Part I, Item 9A of this report for additional information regarding our internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's 20 objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated there under. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. OUR FUTURE GROWTH WILL LARGELY DEPEND UPON OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS. We need to continue to develop and commercialize new brand name products and generic products utilizing our proprietary drug delivery systems to maintain the growth of our business. To do this we will need to identify, develop and commercialize technologically enhanced branded products and identify, develop and commercialize drugs that are off-patent and that can be produced and sold by us as generic products using our drug delivery technologies. If we are unable to identify, develop and commercialize new products, we may need to obtain licenses to additional rights to branded or generic products, assuming they would be available for licensing, which could decrease our profitability. We may not be successful in pursuing this strategy. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMMERCIALIZE PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT OR THAT WE ACQUIRE, OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS MAY SUFFER. Certain products we develop or acquire will require significant additional development and investment, including preclinical and clinical testing, where required, prior to their commercialization. We expect that many of these products will not be commercially available for several years, if at all. We cannot assure you that such products or future products will be successfully developed, prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials (if required), meet applicable regulatory standards, or be capable of being manufactured in commercial quantities at reasonable cost or at all. OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGY MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL. We intend to continue to pursue our efforts to acquire pharmaceutical products, novel drug delivery technologies and/or companies that fit into our research, manufacturing, distribution or sales and marketing operations or that could provide us with additional products, technologies or sales and marketing capabilities. We may not be able to successfully identify, evaluate and acquire any such products, technologies or companies or, if acquired, we may not be able to successfully integrate such acquisitions into our business. We compete with many specialty and other types of pharmaceutical companies for products and product line acquisitions. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and managerial resources than we have. WE DEPEND ON OUR PATENTS AND OTHER PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND CANNOT BE CERTAIN OF THEIR CONFIDENTIALITY AND PROTECTION. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products, to defend our intellectual property rights and to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We have been issued numerous patents in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries, which cover certain of our technologies, and have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and 21 products. The pharmaceutical field is crowded and a substantial number of patents have been issued. In addition, the patent position of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and frequently involves complex legal and factual questions. As a result, the breadth of claims allowed in patents relating to pharmaceutical applications or their validity and enforceability cannot be predicted. Patents are examined for patentability at patent offices against bodies of prior art which by their nature may be incomplete and imperfectly categorized. Therefore, even presuming that the examiner has been able to identify and cite the best prior art available to him during the examination process, any patent issued to us could later be found by a court or a patent office during post-issuance proceedings to be invalid in view of newly-discovered prior art or already considered prior art or other legal reasons. Furthermore, there are categories of "secret" prior art unavailable to any examiner, such as the prior inventive activities of others, which could form the basis for invalidating any patent. In addition, there are other reasons why a patent may be found to be invalid, such as an offer for sale or public use of the patented invention in the U.S. more than one year before the filing date of the patent application. Moreover, a patent may be deemed unenforceable if, for example, the inventor or the inventor's agents failed to disclose prior art to the PTO that they knew was material to patentability. The coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued, either in the U.S. or abroad. Consequently, our pending or future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents. Patents issued to us may be subjected to further proceedings limiting their scope and may not provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage. Our patents also may be challenged, circumvented, invalidated or deemed unenforceable. For example, a third party company has recently filed a declaratory judgment complaint in federal court challenging patents pertaining to Ther-Rx's PrimaCare ONE(R). See 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Patent applications in the U.S. filed prior to November 29, 2000 are currently maintained in secrecy until and unless patents issue, and patent applications in certain other countries generally are not published until more than 18 months after they are first filed (which generally is the case in the U.S. for applications filed on or after November 29, 2000). In addition, publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. As a result, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors will be entitled to any rights in purported inventions claimed in pending or future patent applications or that we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications on such inventions. Furthermore, patents already issued to us or our pending applications may become subject to dispute, and any dispute could be resolved against us. For example, we may become involved in re-examination, reissue or interference proceedings in the PTO, or opposition proceedings in a foreign country. The result of these proceedings can be the invalidation or substantial narrowing of our patent claims. We also could be subject to court proceedings that could find our patents invalid or unenforceable or could substantially narrow the scope of our patent claims. In addition, statutory differences in patentable subject matter may limit the protection we can obtain on some of our inventions outside of the U.S. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable in many countries outside of the U.S. These and other issues may prevent us from obtaining patent protection outside of the U.S. Furthermore, once patented in foreign countries, the inventions may be subjected to mandatory working requirements and/or subject to compulsory licensing regulations. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached by the other parties to these agreements. We may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of our confidentiality agreements and there can be no assurance that any such disputes would be resolved in our favor. Furthermore, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may become known or be independently developed by our competitors, or patents may not be issued with respect to products or methods arising from our research, and we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to those products or methods. Furthermore, certain unpatented technology may be subject to intervening rights. 22 WE DEPEND ON OUR TRADEMARKS AND RELATED RIGHTS. To protect our trademarks and goodwill associated therewith, domain name, and related rights, we generally rely on federal and state trademark and unfair competition laws, which are subject to change. Some, but not all, of our trademarks are registered in the jurisdictions where they are used. Some of our other trademarks are the subject of pending applications in the jurisdictions where they are used or intended to be used, and others are not. It is possible that third parties may own or could acquire rights in trademarks or domain names in the U.S. or abroad that are confusingly similar to or otherwise compete unfairly with our marks and domain names, or that our use of trademarks or domain names may infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. The use of similar marks or domain names by third parties could decrease the value of our trademarks or domain names and hurt our business, for which there may be no adequate remedy. THIRD PARTIES MAY CLAIM THAT WE INFRINGE ON THEIR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, OR SEEK TO CIRCUMVENT OURS. We may be required to defend against charges of infringement of patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights of third parties. We are involved in defending various patent lawsuits resulting from ANDA filings by ETHEX or an effort by a third party company to invalidate certain of our patents. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This defense could require us to incur substantial expense and to divert significant effort of our technical and management personnel, and could result in our loss of rights to develop or make certain products or require us to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. If a dispute is settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing, using, selling and/or importing in to the U.S. certain of our products. Litigation also may be necessary to enforce our patents against others or to protect our know-how or trade secrets. That litigation could result in substantial expense or put our proprietary rights at risk of loss, and we cannot assure you that any litigation will be resolved in our favor. There currently are five patent infringement lawsuits pending against us and one declaratory judgment lawsuit by a third party seeking to invalidate certain of our patents. They could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MANAGE OUR GROWTH. Over the past ten years, our businesses and product offerings have grown substantially. This growth and expansion has posed, and is expected to continue to pose, significant challenges for our management, operational and financial resources. To manage our growth, we must continue to (1) expand our operational, sales, customer support and financial control systems and (2) hire, train and retain qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. OUR DEPENDENCE ON KEY EXECUTIVES AND SCIENTISTS COULD IMPACT THE DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF OUR BUSINESS. We are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development and management of our business. Although we do not believe the loss of one individual would materially harm our business, our business might be harmed by the loss of services of multiple existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner. Much of the know-how we have developed resides in our scientific and technical personnel and is not readily transferable to other personnel. While we have employment agreements with our key executives, we do not ordinarily enter into employment agreements with our other scientific, technical and managerial employees. 23 WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE CONTINUING CONSOLIDATION OF OUR DISTRIBUTION NETWORK AND THE CONCENTRATION OF OUR CUSTOMER BASE. Our principal customers are wholesale drug distributors, major retail drug store chains, independent pharmacies and mail order firms. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drug store chains has decreased. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, our three largest customers, which are wholesale distributors, accounted for 24.6%, 23.9% and 9.8% of our gross sales, respectively. The loss of any of these customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. THE REGULATORY STATUS OF CERTAIN OF OUR GENERIC PRODUCTS MAY MAKE THEM SUBJECT TO INCREASED COMPETITION OR TO REGULATORY DECISIONS TO REQUIRE MARKET WITHDRAWAL OF ONE OR MORE OF OUR UNAPPROVED PRODUCTS. Many of our products are manufactured and marketed without FDA approval. For example, our prenatal products, which contain folic acid, are sold as prescription multiple vitamin supplements. These types of prenatal vitamins are typically regulated by the FDA as prescription drugs, but are not covered by an NDA or ANDA. As a result, competitors may more easily and rapidly introduce products competitive with our prenatal and other products that have a similar regulatory status. For example, during June 2008, a third party company introduced a product purporting to be substitutable for our PrimaCare ONE(R), for which no FDA approval is required. We are currently in litigation with this company with respect to patent and trademark infringement and other claims. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In other cases, we sell unapproved products that may become subject to FDA orders to the pharmaceutical industry to remove one or more types of such products from the marketplace. During the past year, such FDA orders have required manufacturers and distributors of certain unapproved products containing guaifenesin and hydrocodone to cease manufacture or distribution, including certain ETHEX products. In the future, FDA may issue similar orders affecting other of our products. In addition, in the event that FDA concludes that we have failed to comply with a notice setting deadlines for discontinuation of the manufacture and sale of unapproved products, or decides to take enforcement action against us on other grounds, such as for alleged violations of current good manufacturing practice requirements or for failure to obtain product approvals that FDA deems to be necessary, FDA policies permit the agency to initiate broad action against the marketing of additional categories of our unapproved drug products, even if the agency has not instituted similar actions against the marketing of such products by other parties. In March 2008, representatives of the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services, accompanied by representatives of the FDA, notified us of a hold on our inventory of certain unapproved drug products restricting our ability to remove or dispose of those inventories without permission. The hold relates to a misinterpretation about the intended scope of recent FDA notices setting limits on the marketing of unapproved guaifenesin products. In response to notices issued by the FDA in 2002 and 2003 with respect to single-entity timed-release guaifenesin products, and a further notice issued in 2007 with respect to combination timed-released guaifenesin products, we timely discontinued a number of our guaifenesin products and believed that, by doing so, had complied with those notices. The recent action to place a hold on certain of our products indicates that additional guaifenesin products should also have been discontinued. In addition, the FDA expanded the hold to include other products that did not contain guaifenesin but were being marketed without FDA approval under certain "grandfather clauses" and statutory and regulatory exceptions to the pre-market approval requirement for "new drugs" under the FDCA. FDA policies permit the agency to initiate broad action against the marketing of additional categories of our unapproved products, if the FDA deems approval necessary, even if the agency has not instituted similar actions against the marketing of such products by other parties. Pursuant to discussions with the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services and with the FDA, the affected Morphine and Oxycodone products have been released from the hold. We will discontinue 24 manufacturing and marketing all of the other unapproved products subject to the hold with the exception of most of our Hyoscyamine products. Discussions are continuing with respect to those products. The FDA has not proposed, nor do we expect them to propose, that the products subject to the hold be recalled from the distribution channel. We have written-off the value of the products subject to the hold in our inventory as of March 31, 2008. We also evaluated the active pharmaceutical ingredients and excipients used in the manufacture of the hold products and determined that they should also be written-off since we will be discontinuing further manufacturing and many of them cannot be returned or sold to other manufacturers. The write-off included in the results of operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 totaled $5.5 million. One of the key motivations for challenging patents is the reward of a 180-day period of market exclusivity. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the developer of a generic version of a product which is the first to have its ANDA accepted for filing by the FDA, and whose filing includes a certification that the patent is invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed (a so-called "Paragraph IV certification"), may be eligible to receive a 180-day period of generic market exclusivity. This period of market exclusivity provides the patent challenger with the opportunity to earn a risk-adjusted return on legal and development costs associated with bringing a product to market. In cases such as these where suit is filed by the manufacturer of the branded product, final FDA approval of an ANDA generally requires a favorable disposition of the suit, either by judgment that the patents at issue are invalid and/or not infringed or by settlement. We may not ultimately prevail in these litigations, we may not receive final FDA approval of our ANDAs, and we may not achieve our expectation of a period of generic exclusivity for certain of these products when and if resolution of the litigations and receipt of final approvals from the FDA occur. Since enactment of the Hatch-Waxman Act in 1984, the interpretation and implementation of the statutory provisions relating to the 180-day period of generic market exclusivity has been the subject of controversy, court decisions, changes to FDA regulations and guidelines, and other changes in FDA interpretation. In addition, in 2003, significant changes were enacted in the statutory provisions themselves, some of which were retroactive and others of which apply only prospectively or to situations where the first ANDA filing with a Paragraph IV certification occurs after the date of enactment. These interpretations and changes, over time, have had significant effects on the ability of sponsors of particular generic drug products to qualify for or utilize fully the 180-day generic marketing exclusivity period. These interpretations and changes have, in turn, affected the ability of sponsors of corresponding innovator drugs to market their branded products without any generic competition and the ability of sponsors of other generic versions of the same products to market their products in competition with the first generic applicant. Because application of these provisions, and any changes in them or in the applicable interpretations of them, depends almost entirely on the specific facts of the particular NDA and ANDA filings at issue, many of which are not in our control, we cannot predict whether any changes would, on balance, have a positive or negative effect on our business as a whole, although particular changes may have predictable, and potentially significant positive or negative effects on particular pipeline products. In addition, continuing uncertainty over the interpretation and implementation of the original Hatch-Waxman provisions, as well as the 2003 statutory amendments, is likely to continue to impair our ability to predict the likely exclusivity that we may be granted, or blocked by, based on the outcome of particular patent challenges in which we are involved. COMMERCIALIZATION OF A GENERIC PRODUCT PRIOR TO THE FINAL RESOLUTION OF PATENT INFRINGEMENT LITIGATION COULD EXPOSE US TO SIGNIFICANT DAMAGES IF THE OUTCOME OF SUCH LITIGATION IS UNFAVORABLE AND COULD IMPAIR OUR REPUTATION. We could invest a significant amount of time and expense in the development of our generic products only to be subject to significant additional delay and changes in the economic prospects for our products. If we receive FDA approval for our pending ANDAs, we may consider commercializing the product prior to the final resolution of any related patent infringement litigation. The risk involved in marketing a product prior to the final resolution of the litigation may be substantial because the remedies available to the patent holder could include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by such patent holder and not by the profits earned by us. Patent holders may also recover damages caused by the erosion of prices for its patented drug as a result of the introduction of our generic drug in the marketplace. Further, in the case of a willful infringement, which requires a complex analysis of the totality of the circumstances, such damages may be trebled. However, in order to realize 25 the economic benefits of some of our products, we may decide to risk an amount that may exceed the profit we anticipate making on our product. There are a number of factors we would need to consider in order to decide whether to launch our product prior to final resolution, including (1) outside legal advice, (2) the status of a pending lawsuit, (3) interim court decisions, (4) status and timing of a trial, (5) legal decisions affecting other competitors for the same product, (6) market factors, (7) liability sharing agreements, (8) internal capacity issues, (9) expiration dates of patents, (10) strength of lower court decisions and (11) potential triggering or forfeiture of exclusivity. An adverse determination in the litigation relating to a product we launch at risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. WE FACE THE RISK OF PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS, FOR WHICH WE MAY BE INADEQUATELY INSURED. Manufacturing, selling and testing pharmaceutical products involve a risk of product liability. Even unsuccessful product liability claims could require us to spend money on litigation, divert management's time, damage our reputation and impair the marketability of our products. A successful product liability claim outside of or in excess of our insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial sums and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have been advised that one of our former distributor customers is being sued in Florida state court in a case captioned Darrian Kelly v. K-Mart et. al. for personal injury allegedly caused by ingestion of K-Mart diet caplets that are alleged to have been manufactured by us and to contain phenylpropanolamine, or PPA. The distributor has tendered defense of the case to us and has asserted a right to indemnification for any financial judgment it must pay. We previously notified our product liability insurer of this claim in 1999 and again in 2004, and we demanded that the insurer assume our defense. The insurer has stated that it has retained counsel to secure additional factual information and will defer its coverage decision until that information is received. We intend to vigorously defend our interests, however, we may be impleaded into the action, and, if we are impleaded, we may not prevail. Our product liability coverage for PPA claims expired for claims made after June 15, 2002. Although we renewed our product liability coverage for coverage after June 15, 2002, that policy excludes future PPA claims in accordance with the standard industry exclusion. Consequently, as of June 15, 2002, we will provide for legal defense costs and indemnity payments involving PPA claims on a going forward basis as incurred. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain product liability insurance in the future for PPA claims with adequate coverage limits at commercially reasonable prices for subsequent periods. From time to time in the future, we may be subject to further litigation resulting from products containing PPA that we formerly distributed. We intend to vigorously defend our interests, however, we may not prevail. WE DEPEND ON LICENSES FROM OTHERS, AND ANY LOSS OF THESE LICENSES COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS, MARKET SHARE AND PROFITABILITY. We have acquired the rights to manufacture, use and/or market certain products through license agreements. We also expect to continue to obtain licenses for other products and technologies in the future. Our license agreements generally require us to develop the markets for the licensed products. If we do not develop these markets, the licensors may be entitled to terminate these license agreements. We cannot be certain that we will fulfill all of our obligations under any particular license agreement for any variety of reasons, including insufficient resources to adequately develop and market a product, lack of market development despite our efforts and lack of product acceptance. Our failure to fulfill our obligations could result in the loss of our rights under a license agreement. Certain products we have the right to license are at certain stages of clinical tests and FDA approval. Failure of any licensed product to receive regulatory approval could result in the loss of our rights under its license agreement. 26 WE EXPEND A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF RESOURCES ON RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS THAT MAY NOT LEAD TO SUCCESSFUL PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS. We conduct research and development primarily to enable us to manufacture and market FDA-approved pharmaceuticals in accordance with FDA regulations. Typically, research costs related to the development of innovative compounds and the filing of NDAs are significantly greater than those expenses associated with ANDA filings. As such, our investment in research and development, which increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 19.5% over the five fiscal year period ended March 31, 2008, reflects our ongoing commitment to develop new products and/or technologies through our internal development programs, and with our external strategic partners. Because of the inherent risk associated with research and development efforts in our industry, particularly with respect to new drugs, our research and development expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of FDA approved new pharmaceutical products. Also, after we submit an ANDA, the FDA may request that we conduct additional studies and as a result, we may be unable to reasonably determine the total research and development costs to develop a particular product. Finally, we cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered, even if we are successful in commercialization. To the extent that we expend significant resources on research and development efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new products as a result of those efforts, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. ANY SIGNIFICANT INTERRUPTION IN THE SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS OR FINISHED PRODUCT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. We typically purchase the active pharmaceutical ingredient (i.e., the chemical compounds that produce the desired therapeutic effect in our products) and other materials and supplies that we use in our manufacturing operations, as well as certain finished products (including Evamist(TM) and, once approved, Gestiva(TM)), from many different domestic and foreign suppliers. Additionally, we maintain safety stocks in our raw materials inventory, and in certain cases where we have listed only one supplier in our applications with the FDA, have received FDA approval to use alternative suppliers should the need arise. However, there is no guarantee that we will always have timely and sufficient access to a critical raw material or finished product. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced raw material, including the active ingredient, or finished product could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows to be materially adversely affected. In addition, our manufacturing capabilities could be impacted by quality deficiencies in the products which our suppliers provide, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We utilize controlled substances in certain of our current products and products in development and therefore must meet the requirements of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 and the related regulations administered by the DEA. These regulations relate to the manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use of controlled substances. The DEA limits the availability of the active ingredients used in certain of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. We must annually apply to the DEA for procurement quota in order to obtain these substances. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches, or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. OUR POLICIES REGARDING RETURNS, ALLOWANCES AND CHARGEBACKS, AND MARKETING PROGRAMS ADOPTED BY WHOLESALERS, MAY REDUCE OUR REVENUES IN FUTURE FISCAL PERIODS. Based on industry practice, generic product manufacturers, including us, have liberal return policies and have been willing to give customers post-sale inventory allowances. Under these arrangements, from time to time, we give our customers credits on our generic products that our customers hold in inventory after we have decreased the market prices of the same generic products. Therefore, if additional competitors enter the marketplace and significantly lower the prices of any of their competing products, we would likely reduce the price of our 27 comparable products. As a result, we could be obligated to provide significant credits to our customers who are then holding inventories of such products, which could reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period when the credits are accrued. Like our competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to wholesale customers that have contracts with us for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing organizations, pharmacies or other retail customers. A chargeback is the difference between the price the wholesale customer pays and the price that the wholesale customer's end-customer pays for a product. Although we establish allowances based on our prior experience and our best estimates of the impact that these policies may have in subsequent periods, our allowances may not be adequate or our actual product returns, allowances and chargebacks may exceed our estimates. INVESTIGATIONS OF THE CALCULATION OF AVERAGE WHOLESALE PRICES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Many government and third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, and managed care organizations, or MCOs, reimburse doctors and others for the purchase of certain prescription drugs based on a drug's average wholesale price, or AWP. In the past several years, state and federal government agencies have conducted ongoing investigations of manufacturers' reporting practices with respect to AWP, in which they have asserted that reporting of inflated AWP's have led to excessive payments for prescription drugs. The Company and/or ETHEX have been named as defendants in certain multi-defendant cases alleging that the defendants reported improper or fraudulent pharmaceutical pricing information, i.e., Average Wholesale Price, or AWP, and/or Wholesale Acquisition Cost, or WAC, information, which caused the governmental plaintiffs to incur excessive costs for pharmaceutical products under the Medicaid program. Cases of this type have been filed against the Company and/or ETHEX and other pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants by the States of Massachusetts, Alabama, Mississippi, Utah and Iowa, New York City, and approximately 45 counties in New York State. The State of Mississippi effectively voluntarily dismissed the Company and ETHEX without prejudice in October 2006, by virtue of the State's filing an Amended Complaint on such date that does not name either the Company or ETHEX as a defendant. In the remaining cases, only ETHEX is a named defendant. In August 2007, ETHEX settled the Massachusetts lawsuit for $0.6 million in cash and agreed to supply $0.2 million in free pharmaceutical products over the next two years and received a general release with no admission of liability. The New York City case and all New York county cases (other than the Erie, Oswego and Schenectady County cases) have been transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings under the Average Wholesale Price Multidistrict Litigation (MDL No. 1456). The cases pertaining to the State of Alabama, Erie County, Oswego County, and Schenectady County were removed to federal court by a co-defendant in October 2006, but all of these cases have since been remanded to the state courts in which they originally were filed. Each of these actions is in the early stages, with fact discovery commencing or ongoing. In October 2007, ETHEX was served with a complaint naming ETHEX and nine other pharmaceutical companies as defendants in a pricing suit filed in state court in Utah by the State of Utah. The State of Utah filed an amended complaint in November 2007. This suit has been removed to federal court, where the State of Utah is seeking a remand to the state courts. A decision is pending before the court. The time to file an answer or other response in the Utah suit has not yet run. In October 2007, the State of Iowa filed a complaint naming ETHEX and 77 other pharmaceutical companies as defendants in a pricing suit in federal court in the State of Iowa. ETHEX and the other defendants have moved to dismiss the Iowa complaint. The Company intends to vigorously defend its interests in the actions described above; however, we may not prevail in one or more of such cases and the outcome may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We believe that various other governmental entities have commenced investigations into the generic and branded pharmaceutical industry at large regarding pricing and price reporting practices. Although we believe our pricing and reporting practices have complied in all material respects with our legal obligations, we may not prevail if legal actions are instituted by these governmental entities. 28 RISING INSURANCE COSTS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT PROFITABILITY. The cost of insurance, including workers' compensation, product liability and general liability insurance, has risen significantly in the past few years and is expected to continue to increase. In response, we may increase deductibles and/or decrease certain coverages to mitigate these costs. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverages, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. OUR REVENUES, GROSS PROFIT AND OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE FROM PERIOD TO PERIOD DEPENDING UPON OUR PRODUCT SALES MIX, OUR PRODUCT PRICING, AND OUR COSTS TO MANUFACTURE OR PURCHASE PRODUCTS. Our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will depend to a significant extent upon our branded and generic/non-branded product sales mix (the proportion of total sales between branded products and generic/non-branded products). Our sales of branded products generate higher gross margins than our sales of generic/non-branded products. In addition, the introduction of new generic products at any given time can involve significant initial quantities being purchased by our wholesaler customers, as they supply initial quantities to pharmacies and purchase product for their own wholesaler inventories. As a result, our sales mix will significantly impact our gross profit from period to period. During fiscal 2008, sales of our branded products and generic/non-branded products accounted for 35.7% and 61.1%, respectively, of our net revenues. During that year, branded products and generic/non-branded products contributed gross margins of 89.7% and 63.1%, respectively, to our consolidated gross profit margin of 69.0% in fiscal 2008. Factors that may cause our sales mix to vary include: o the amount and timing of new product introductions; o marketing exclusivity on products, if any, which may be obtained; o the level of competition in the marketplace for certain products; o the availability of raw materials and finished products from our suppliers; o the buying patterns of our three largest wholesaler customers; o the scope and outcome of governmental regulatory action that may involve us; o periodic dependence on a relatively small number of products for a significant portion of net revenue or income; and o legal actions brought by our competitors. The profitability of our product sales is also dependent upon the prices we are able to charge for our products, the costs to purchase products from third parties, and our ability to manufacture our products in a cost-effective manner. If our revenues and gross profit decline or do not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses. INCREASED INDEBTEDNESS MAY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. At March 31, 2008, we had $269.5 million of outstanding debt, consisting of $200.0 million principal amount of Contingent Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2033 (the "Notes"), the remaining principal balance of a $43.0 million mortgage loan entered into in March 2006, and $30.0 million of borrowings outstanding under our credit facility. We have a credit agreement with ten banks that provides for a revolving line of credit for borrowing up to $320.0 million. This credit facility also includes a provision for increasing the revolving commitment, at the lenders' sole discretion, by up to an additional $50.0 million. The credit agreement is unsecured unless we, under certain specified circumstances, utilize the facility to redeem part or all of our outstanding Notes. The credit facility has a five-year term expiring in June 2011. Our level of indebtedness may have several important effects on our future operations, including: o we will be required to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of any principal or interest due on our outstanding indebtedness; o our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase the impact of negative changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as competitive pressures and increases in interest rates; and 29 o the level of our outstanding debt and the impact it has on our ability to meet debt covenants associated with our revolving line of credit arrangement may affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes. General economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control, may affect our future performance. As a result, our business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may, among other things: o seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; o refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; o sell selected assets; o reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or o reduce or delay planned research and development expenditures. These measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. We may also consider issuing additional debt or equity securities in the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to refinance existing debt, and/or for general corporate purposes. If a material acquisition or investment is completed, our operating results and financial condition could change materially in future periods. However, additional funds may not be available on satisfactory terms, or at all, to fund such activities. Holders of the Notes may require us to offer to repurchase their Notes for cash upon the occurrence of a change in control or on May 16, 2008, 2013, 2018, 2023 and 2028. Even though no holders required us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes on May 16, 2008, we classified the Notes as a current liability as of March 31, 2008 due to the right the holders had to require us to repurchase the Notes on May 16, 2008. Since the holders did not elect to cause us to repurchase any of the Notes, the Notes will be reclassified as long-term liabilities beginning with our consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2008. The source of funds for any repurchase required as a result of any such events will be our available cash or cash generated from operating activities or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets, sales of equity or funds provided by a new controlling entity. The use of available cash to fund the repurchase of the Notes may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. WE MAY HAVE FUTURE CAPITAL NEEDS AND FUTURE ISSUANCES OF EQUITY SECURITIES WILL RESULT IN DILUTION. We anticipate that funds generated internally, together with funds available under our credit facility will be sufficient to implement our business plan for the foreseeable future, subject to additional needs that may arise if acquisition opportunities become available. We also may need additional capital if unexpected events occur or opportunities arise. We may raise additional capital through the public or private sale of debt or equity securities. If we sell equity securities, holders of our common stock could experience dilution. Furthermore, those securities could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of the Class A or Class B Common Stock. Additional funding may not be accessible or available to us on favorable terms or at all. If the funding is not available, we may not be able to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY ECONOMIC FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL AND MAY INCUR IMPAIRMENT CHARGES TO OUR INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO. We have funds invested in auction rate securities ("ARS"). Consistent with our investment policy guidelines, the ARS held by us are AAA rated securities with long-term nominal maturities secured by student loans which are guaranteed by the U.S. Government. The interest rates on these securities are reset through an auction process at pre-determined intervals, up to 35 days. There may be liquidity issues which arise in the credit and capital 30 markets and the ARS held by us may experience failed auctions as the amount of securities submitted for sale may exceed the amount of purchase orders. As a result, we may not be able to liquidate some or all of our ARS prior to their maturities at prices approximating their face amounts. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, disruption in the credit and capital markets adversely affected the auction market for the type of securities we own and the ARS held by us experienced failed auctions as the amount of securities submitted for sale exceeded the amount of purchase orders. If uncertainties in these credit and capital markets continue or these markets deteriorate further we may incur other-than-temporary impairments to our investments in ARS, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. (See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company's investment in ARS.) We believe that as of March 31, 2008, based on our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances of $126.9 million (exclusive of auction rate securities) and our current borrowing capacity of $290.0 million under our credit facility, the current lack of liquidity in the auction rate market will not have a material impact on our ability to fund our operations or interfere with our external growth plans, although, we cannot assure you that this will continue to be the case. WE MAY INCUR CHARGES FOR INTANGIBLE ASSET IMPAIRMENT. When we acquire the rights to manufacture and sell a product, we record the aggregate purchase price, along with the value of the product-related liabilities we assume, as intangible assets. We use the assistance of valuation experts to help us allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the various intangible assets we have acquired. Then, we must estimate the economic useful life of each of these intangible assets in order to amortize their cost as an expense in our consolidated statements of income over the estimated economic useful life of the related asset. The factors that affect the actual economic useful life of a pharmaceutical product are inherently uncertain, and include patent protection, physician loyalty and prescribing patterns, competition by products prescribed for similar indications, future introductions of competing products not yet FDA approved and the impact of promotional efforts, among many others. We consider all of these factors in initially estimating the economic useful lives of our products, and we also continuously monitor these factors for indications of decline in carrying value. In assessing the recoverability of our intangible assets, we must make assumptions regarding estimated undiscounted future cash flows and other factors. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows do not exceed the carrying value of the intangible assets we must determine the fair value of the intangible assets. If the fair value of the intangible assets is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss will be recognized in an amount equal to the difference. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets. We review intangible assets for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If we determine that an intangible asset is impaired, a non-cash impairment charge would be recognized. Because circumstances after an acquisition can change, the value of intangible assets we record may not be realized by us. If we determine that impairment has occurred, we would be required to write-off the impaired portion of the unamortized intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. In addition, in the event of a sale of any of our assets, we might not recover our recorded value of associated intangible assets. THERE ARE INHERENT UNCERTAINTIES INVOLVED IN THE ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS USED IN THE PREPARATION OF OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, AND ANY CHANGES IN THOSE ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The consolidated financial statements that we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The most significant estimates we are required to make under GAAP include, but are not limited to, those related to revenue recognition and reductions to gross revenues, inventory valuation, intangible 31 assets, stock-based compensation, income taxes and loss contingencies related to legal proceedings. We periodically evaluate estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for reasonableness, including estimates provided by third parties. Appropriate adjustments to the estimates will be made prospectively, as necessary, based on such periodic evaluations. We base our estimates on, among other things, currently available information, market conditions, historical experience and various assumptions, which together form the basis of making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Although we believe that our assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, estimates would differ if different assumptions were utilized and these estimates may prove in the future to have been inaccurate. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS, REIMBURSEMENT POLICIES OF THIRD PARTIES, COST-CONTAINMENT MEASURES AND HEALTH CARE REFORM COULD AFFECT THE MARKETING, PRICING AND DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Various legislative proposals, including proposals relating to prescription drug benefits, could materially impact the pricing and sale of our products. Further, reimbursement policies of third parties may affect the marketing of our products. Our ability to market our products will depend in part on reimbursement levels for the cost of the products and related treatment established by health care providers, including government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations ("HMO's") and managed care organizations ("MCO's"). Insurance companies, HMOs, MCOs, Medicaid and Medicare administrators and others regularly challenge the pricing of pharmaceutical products and review their reimbursement practices. In addition, the following factors could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, which could result in lower prices and a reduced demand for our products: o the trend toward managed health care in the U.S.; o the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs; o legislative proposals to reform health care and government insurance programs; and o price controls and non-reimbursement of new and highly priced medicines for which the economic therapeutic rationales are not established. These cost-containment measures and health care reform proposals could affect our ability to sell our products. The reimbursement status of a newly approved pharmaceutical product or of unapproved products may be uncertain. Reimbursement policies may not include some of our products or government agencies or third parties may assert that certain of our products are not eligible for Medicaid, Medicare or other reimbursement and were not so eligible in the past, possibly resulting in demands for damages or refunds. Even if reimbursement policies of third parties grant reimbursement status for a product, we cannot be sure that these reimbursement policies will remain in effect. Limits on reimbursement could reduce the demand for our products. The unavailability or inadequacy of third party reimbursement for our products could reduce or possibly eliminate demand for our products. We are unable to predict whether governmental authorities will enact additional legislation or regulation which will affect third party coverage and reimbursement that reduces demand for our products. Our ability to market generic pharmaceutical products successfully depends, in part, on the acceptance of the products by independent third parties, including pharmacies, government formularies and other retailers, as well as patients. We manufacture a number of prescription drugs which are used by patients who have severe health conditions. Although the brand-name products generally have been marketed safely for many years prior to our introduction of a generic/non-branded alternative, there is a possibility that one of these products could produce a side effect which could result in an adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptance by managed care providers, pharmacies and other retailers, customers and patients. If these independent third parties do not accept our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 32 EXTENSIVE INDUSTRY REGULATION HAS HAD, AND WILL CONTINUE TO HAVE, A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON OUR INDUSTRY AND OUR BUSINESS, ESPECIALLY OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTION CAPABILITIES. All pharmaceutical companies, including us, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA and, to a lesser extent, the DEA and state government agencies. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, injunctions or holds, recall or seizure of products and total or partial suspension of production, as well as other regulatory actions against our products and us. In addition to compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, requirements, drug manufacturers must register each manufacturing facility with the FDA. Manufacturers and distributors of prescription drug products are also required to be registered in the states where they are located and in certain states that require registration by out-of-state manufacturers and distributors. Manufacturers also must be registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, and similar applicable state and local regulatory authorities if they handle controlled substances, and with the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and similar state and local regulatory authorities if they generate toxic or dangerous wastes, and must also comply with other applicable DEA and EPA requirements. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with cGMP and are registered with the appropriate state and federal agencies. Non-compliance with applicable cGMP requirements or other rules and regulations of these agencies can result in fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, refusal of government agencies to grant pre-market approval or other product applications and criminal prosecution. Despite our ongoing efforts, cGMP requirements and other regulatory requirements, and related enforcement priorities and policies may evolve over time and we may not be able to remain continuously in material compliance with all of these requirements. From time to time, governmental agencies have conducted investigations of pharmaceutical companies relating to the distribution and sale of drug products to government purchasers or subject to government or third party reimbursement. We believe that we have marketed our products in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. However, standards sought to be applied in the course of governmental investigations can be complex and may not be consistent with standards previously applied to our industry generally or previously understood by us to be applicable to our activities. The Company received a subpoena from the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, seeking documents with respect to two of ETHEX's nitroglycerin products. Both are unapproved products, that is, they have not received FDA approval. (FDA approval is not necessarily required for all drugs to be sold in the marketplace, such as pre-1938 "grandfathered" products or certain drugs reviewed under the so-called DESI process. The Company believes that its two products come within these exceptions.) The subpoena states that it is in connection with an investigation into potential false claims under Title 42 of the U.S. Code, and appears to pertain to whether these products are eligible for reimbursement under federal health care programs, such as Medicaid and VA programs. On June 6, 2008, ETHEX initiated a voluntary recall of a single lot of morphine sulfate 60 mg extended release tablets due to a report that a tablet with as much as double the appropriate thickness was identified and therefore the possibility that other oversized tablets could have been commercially released in the affected lot. On June 13, 2008, the recall was expanded to include additional specific lots of morphine sulfate 60 mg extended release tablets and specific lots of morphine sulfate 30 mg extended release tablets. We accrued a liability of $0.9 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 for the anticipated cost of the recall. No oversized tablets have been identified in any additional distributed lots of these products and based on our investigation, there are likely to be few, if any, oversized tablets in the recall lots. In addition, under ordinary pharmacy dispensing procedures, any significantly oversized tablets would likely be identified at the time of dispensing. However, the decision to recall the additional lots has been taken as a responsible precaution because of the possibility that there may be oversized tablets in the recalled lots. 33 The process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming and costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental or third-party approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping many of our products. Consequently, there is always the chance that we will not obtain FDA or other necessary approvals, or that the rate, timing and cost of such approvals, will adversely affect our product introduction plans or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK HAS BEEN AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE. The market prices of securities of companies engaged in pharmaceutical development and marketing activities historically have been highly volatile. In addition, any or all of the following may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: developments regarding litigation and actual or potential investigations regarding our former stock option grant practices, our reporting of prices used by government agencies or third parties in setting reimbursement rates, the introduction by other companies of generic or competing products, or the eligibility of our products for Medicaid, Medicare or other reimbursement; announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial products; delays in the development or approval of products; regulatory withdrawals of our products from the market; developments or disputes concerning patent or other proprietary rights; publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products marketed by us or products under development; regulatory developments in both the U.S. and foreign countries; publicity regarding actual or potential acquisitions; public concern as to the safety of drug technologies or products; financial results which are different from securities analysts' forecasts; economic and other external factors; and period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. FUTURE SALES OF COMMON STOCK COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR CLASS A OR CLASS B COMMON STOCK. As of March 31, 2008, an aggregate of 3,697,049 shares of our Class A Common Stock and 236,415 shares of our Class B Common Stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options under our stock option plans, and an additional 96,405 shares of our Class A Common Stock and 1,212,500 shares of Class B Common Stock were reserved for the issuance of additional options and shares under these plans. In addition, as of March 31, 2008, 8,691,880 shares of Class A Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of $200.0 million principal amount of Notes, and 337,500 shares of our Class A Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of our outstanding 7% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. Future sales of our common stock and instruments convertible or exchangeable into our common stock and transactions involving equity derivatives relating to our common stock, or the perception that such sales or transactions could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This could, in turn, have an adverse effect on the trading price of the Notes resulting from, among other things, a delay in the ability of holders to convert their Notes into our Class A Common Stock. MANAGEMENT SHAREHOLDERS CONTROL OUR COMPANY. At March 31, 2008, our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 16.4% of our Class A Common Stock and approximately 89.3% of our Class B Common Stock. As a result, these persons control approximately 57.3% of the combined voting power represented by our outstanding securities. These persons will retain effective voting control of our Company and are expected to continue to have the ability to effectively determine the outcome of any matter being voted on by our shareholders, including the election of directors and any merger, sale of assets or other change in control of our Company. OUR CHARTER PROVISIONS AND DELAWARE LAW MAY HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECTS. Our Amended Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of common stock in two classes, Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Each share of Class A Common Stock entitles the holder to 34 one-twentieth of one vote on all matters to be voted upon by shareholders, while each share of Class B Common Stock entitles the holder to one full vote on each matter considered by the shareholders. In addition, our directors have the authority to issue additional shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The existence of two classes of common stock with different voting rights and the ability of our directors to issue additional shares of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our voting stock. Other provisions of our Amended Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, such as a classified board of directors, also may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to our Company could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our Company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any "interested shareholder" (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. In addition, our senior management is entitled to certain payments upon a change in control and all of our stock option plans provide for the acceleration of vesting in the event of a change in control of our Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ------------------------- None. 35 