ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ------------ We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. Additional risks presently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial or unlikely to occur could also impair our operations. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS OUR FUTURE GROWTH IS LARGELY DEPENDENT UPON OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS. We need to continue to develop and commercialize new brand name products and generic products utilizing our proprietary drug delivery systems to maintain the growth of our business. To do this we will need to identify, develop and commercialize technologically enhanced branded products and identify, develop and commercialize drugs that are off-patent and that can be produced and sold by us as generic products using our drug delivery technologies. If we are unable to identify, develop and commercialize new products, we may need to obtain licenses to additional rights to branded or generic products, assuming they would be available for licensing, which could decrease our profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in pursuing this strategy. 19 IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMMERCIALIZE PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT, OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS MAY SUFFER. Certain products we are developing will require significant additional development and investment, including preclinical and clinical testing, where required, prior to their commercialization. We expect that many of these products will not be commercially available for several years, if at all. We cannot assure you that such products or future products will be successfully developed, prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials (if required), meet applicable regulatory standards, or be capable of being manufactured in commercial quantities at reasonable cost. OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGY MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL. We intend to continue to acquire pharmaceutical products, novel drug delivery technologies and/or companies that fit into our research, manufacturing, distribution or sales and marketing operations or that could provide us with additional products, technologies or sales and marketing capabilities. We may not be able to successfully identify, evaluate and acquire any such products, technologies or companies or, if acquired, we may not be able to successfully integrate such acquisitions into our business. We compete with many specialty pharmaceutical companies for products and product line acquisitions. These competitors may have substantially greater financial and managerial resources than we have. WE DEPEND ON OUR PATENTS AND OTHER PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND CANNOT BE CERTAIN OF THEIR CONFIDENTIALITY AND PROTECTION. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products, to defend our intellectual property rights and to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We have been issued numerous patents in the United States and in certain foreign countries, which cover certain of our technologies, and have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products. The pharmaceutical field is crowded and a substantial number of patents have been issued. In addition, the patent position of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and frequently involves complex legal and factual questions. As a result, the breadth of claims allowed in patents relating to pharmaceutical applications or their validity and enforceability cannot be predicted. Patents are examined for patentability at patent offices against bodies of prior art which by their nature may be incomplete and imperfectly categorized. Therefore, even presuming that the examiner has been able to identify and cite the best prior art available to him during the examination process, any patent issued to us could later be found by a court or a patent office during post issuance proceedings to be invalid in view of newly-discovered prior art or already considered prior art or other legal reasons. Furthermore, there are categories of "secret" prior art unavailable to any examiner, such as the prior inventive activities of others, which could form the basis for invalidating any patent. In addition, there are other reasons why a patent may be found to be invalid, such as an offer for sale or public use of the patented invention in the United States more than one year before the filing date of the patent application. Moreover, a patent may be deemed unenforceable if, for example, the inventor or the inventor's agents failed to disclose prior art to the PTO that they knew was material to patentability. The coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued, either in the United States or abroad. Consequently, there can be no assurance that any of our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. Patents issued to us may be subjected to further proceedings limiting their scope and may not provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage. Our patents also may be challenged, circumvented, invalidated or deemed unenforceable. Patent applications in the United States filed prior to November 29, 2000 are currently maintained in secrecy until and unless patents issue, and patent applications in certain other countries generally are not published until more than 18 months after they are first filed (which generally is the case in the United States for applications filed on or after November 29, 2000). In addition, publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. As a result, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors will be entitled to any rights in purported inventions claimed in pending or future patent applications or that we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications on such 20 inventions. Furthermore, patents already issued to us or our pending applications may become subject to dispute, and any dispute could be resolved against us. For example, we may become involved in re-examination, reissue or interference proceedings in the PTO, or opposition proceedings in a foreign country. The result of these proceedings can be the invalidation or substantial narrowing of our patent claims. We also could be subject to court proceedings that could find our patents invalid or unenforceable or could substantially narrow the scope of our patent claims. In addition, statutory differences in patentable subject matter may limit the protection we can obtain on some of our inventions outside of the United States. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable in many countries outside of the United States. These and other issues may prevent us from obtaining patent protection outside of the United States. Furthermore, once patented in foreign countries, the inventions may be subjected to mandatory working requirements and/or subject to compulsory licensing regulations. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached by the other parties to these agreements. We may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of our confidentiality agreements and there can be no assurance that any such disputes would be resolved in our favor. Furthermore, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may become known or be independently developed by our competitors, or patents may not be issued with respect to products or methods arising from our research, and we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to those products or methods. Furthermore, certain unpatented technology may be subject to intervening rights. WE DEPEND ON OUR TRADEMARKS AND RELATED RIGHTS. To protect our trademarks and goodwill associated therewith, domain name, and related rights, we generally rely on federal and state trademark and unfair competition laws, which are subject to change. Some, but not all, of our trademarks are registered in the jurisdictions where they are used. Some of our other trademarks are the subject of pending applications in the jurisdictions where they are used or intended to be used, and others are not. It is possible that third parties may own or could acquire rights in trademarks or domain names in the United States or abroad that are confusingly similar to or otherwise compete unfairly with our marks and domain names, or that our use of trademarks or domain names may infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. The use of similar marks or domain names by third parties could decrease the value of our trademarks or domain names and hurt our business, for which there may be no adequate remedy. THIRD PARTIES MAY CLAIM THAT WE INFRINGE ON THEIR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, OR SEEK TO CIRCUMVENT OURS. We may be required to defend against charges of infringement of patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights of third parties. This defense could require us to incur substantial expense and to divert significant effort of our technical and management personnel, and could result in our loss of rights to develop or make certain products or require us to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. If a dispute is settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing, using, selling and/or importing in to the United States certain of our products. Litigation also may be necessary to enforce our patents against others or to protect our know-how or trade secrets. That litigation could result in substantial expense or put our proprietary rights at risk of loss, and we cannot assure you that any litigation will be resolved in our favor. There currently are two patent infringement lawsuits pending against us. Although we do not believe they will 21 have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations, we cannot assure you of that. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MANAGE OUR GROWTH. Over the past ten years, our businesses and product offerings have grown substantially. This growth and expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operational and financial resources. To manage our growth, we must continue to (1) expand our operational, sales, customer support and financial control systems and (2) hire, train and retain qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately manage our growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. WE MAY NOT OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL FOR OUR NEW PRODUCTS ON A TIMELY BASIS, OR AT ALL. Many of our new products will require FDA approval. FDA approval typically involves lengthy, detailed and costly laboratory and clinical testing procedures, as well as the FDA's review and approval of the information submitted. We cannot assure you that the products we develop will be determined to be safe and effective in these testing procedures, or that they will be approved by the FDA. The FDA also has the authority to revoke for-cause drug approvals previously granted. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE CONTINUING CONSOLIDATION OF OUR DISTRIBUTION NETWORK AND THE CONCENTRATION OF OUR CUSTOMER BASE. Our principal customers are wholesale drug distributors, major retail drug store chains, independent pharmacies and mail order firms. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drug store chains has decreased. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, our three largest customers, which are wholesale distributors, accounted for 27%, 16% and 13% of our gross sales. The loss of any of these customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. THE REGULATORY STATUS OF CERTAIN OF OUR GENERIC PRODUCTS MAY MAKE THEM SUBJECT TO INCREASED COMPETITION. Many of our products are manufactured and marketed without FDA approval. For example, our prenatal products, which contain folic acid, are sold as prescription multiple vitamin supplements. These types of prenatal vitamins are typically regulated by the FDA as prescription drugs, but are not covered by an NDA or ANDA. As a result, competitors may more easily and rapidly introduce products competitive with our prenatal and other products that have a similar regulatory status. One of the key motivations for challenging patents is the reward of a 180-day period of market exclusivity. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the developer of a generic version of a product which is the first to have its ANDA accepted for filing by the FDA, and whose filing includes a certification that the patent is invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed (a so-called "Paragraph IV certification"), may be eligible to receive a 180-day period of generic market exclusivity. This period of market exclusivity provides the patent challenger with the opportunity to earn a risk-adjusted return on legal and development costs associated with bringing a product to market. In cases such as these where suit is filed by the manufacturer of the branded product, final FDA approval of an ANDA generally requires a favorable disposition of the suit, either by judgment that the patents at issue are invalid and/or not infringed or by settlement. There can be no assurance that we will ultimately prevail in these litigations, that we will receive final FDA approval of our ANDAs, or that any expectation of a period of generic 22 exclusivity for certain of these products will actually be realized when and if resolution of the litigations and receipt of final approvals from the FDA occur. Since enactment of the Hatch-Waxman Act in 1984, the interpretation and implementation of the statutory provisions relating to the 180-day period of generic market exclusively have been the subject of controversy, court decisions, changes to FDA regulations and guidelines, and other changes in FDA interpretation. In addition, on December 8, 2003, significant changes were enacted in the statutory provisions themselves, some of which were retroactive and others of which apply only prospectively or to situations where the first ANDA filing with a Paragraph IV certification occurs after the date of enactment. These interpretations and changes, over time, have had significant effects on the ability of sponsors of particular generic drug products to qualify for or utilize fully the 180-day generic marketing exclusivity period. These interpretations and changes have, in turn, affected the ability of sponsors of corresponding innovator drugs to market their branded products without any generic competition and the ability of sponsors of other generic versions of the same products to market their products in competition with the first generic applicant. Because application of these provisions, and any changes in them or in the applicable interpretations of them, depends almost entirely on the specific facts of the particular NDA and ANDA filings at issue, many of which are not in our control, we cannot predict whether any changes would, on balance, have a positive or negative effect on our business as a whole, although particular changes may have predictable, and potentially significant positive or negative effects on particular pipeline products. In addition, continuing uncertainty over the interpretation and implementation of the original Hatch-Waxman provisions, as well as the December 8, 2003 statutory amendments, is likely to continue to impair our ability to predict the likely exclusivity that we may be granted, or blocked by, based on the outcome of particular patent challenges in which we are involved. COMMERCIALIZATION OF A GENERIC PRODUCT PRIOR TO THE FINAL RESOLUTION OF PATENT INFRINGEMENT LITIGATION COULD EXPOSE US TO SIGNIFICANT DAMAGES IF THE OUTCOME OF SUCH LITIGATION IS UNFAVORABLE AND COULD IMPAIR OUR REPUTATION. We could invest a significant amount of time and expense in the development of our generic products only to be subject to significant additional delay and changes in the economic prospects for our products. If we receive FDA approval for our pending ANDAs, particularly our generic version of Toprol-XL(R), we may consider commercializing the product prior to the final resolution of any related patent infringement litigation. The risk involved in marketing a product prior to the final resolution of the litigation may be substantial because the remedies available to the patent holder could include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by such patent holder and not by the profits earned by us. Patent holders may also recover damages caused by the erosion of prices for its patented drug as a result of the introduction of our generic drug in the marketplace. Further, in the case of a willful infringement, which requires a complex analysis of the totality of the circumstances, such damages may be trebled. However, in order to realize the economic benefits of some of our products, we may decide to risk an amount that may exceed the profit we anticipate making on our product. There are a number of factors we would need to consider in order to decide whether to launch our product prior to final resolution, including, (i) outside legal advice, (ii) the status of a pending lawsuit, (iii) interim court decisions, (iv) status and timing of the trial, (v) legal decisions affecting other competitors for the same product, (vi) market factors, (vii) liability sharing agreements, (viii) internal capacity issues, (ix) expiration dates of patents, (x) strength of lower court decisions and (xi) potential triggering or forfeiture of exclusivity. An adverse determination in the litigation relating to a product we launch at risk could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial statements. WE FACE THE RISK OF PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS, FOR WHICH WE MAY BE INADEQUATELY INSURED. Manufacturing, selling and testing pharmaceutical products involve a risk of product liability. Even unsuccessful product liability claims could require us to spend money on litigation, divert management's time, damage our reputation and impair the marketability of our products. A successful product liability claim outside of or in 23 excess of our insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial sums and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We previously distributed several pharmaceutical products that contained phenylpropanolamine, or PPA, and that were discontinued in 2000 and 2001. We are presently named a defendant in a product liability lawsuit in Federal District Court in Mississippi involving PPA. The suit originated out of a case, Virginia Madison, et al. v. Bayer Corporation, et al. The original suit was filed in December 2002, but was not served on us until February 2003. The case was originally filed in the Circuit Court of Hinds County, Mississippi, and was removed to the Federal District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi by then co-defendant Bayer Corporation. The case has been transferred to a Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation for PPA claims sitting in the Western District of Washington. The claims against us have been segregated into a lawsuit brought by Johnny Fulcher individually and on behalf of the wrongful death beneficiaries of Linda Fulcher, deceased, against the Company. It alleges bodily injury, wrongful death, economic injury, punitive damages, loss of consortium and/or loss of services from the use of our distributed pharmaceuticals containing PPA that have since been discontinued and/or reformulated to exclude PPA. In May 2004, the case was dismissed with prejudice by the Federal District Court for the Western District of Washington for a failure to timely file an individual complaint as required by certain court orders. The plaintiff filed a request for reconsideration which was opposed and subsequently denied by the Court in June 2004. In July 2004, the plaintiff filed a notice of appeal of the dismissal. We have opposed this appeal. We intend to vigorously defend our interests; however, we cannot give any assurance we will prevail. We have also been advised that one of our former distributor customers is being sued in Florida state court in a case captioned Darrian Kelly v. K-Mart et. al. for personal injury allegedly caused by ingestion of K-Mart diet caplets that are alleged to have been manufactured by us and to contain PPA. The distributor has tendered defense of the case to us and has asserted a right to indemnification for any financial judgment it must pay. We previously notified our product liability insurer of this claim in 1999, and we have demanded that the insurer assume the Company's defense. The insurer has stated that it has retained counsel to secure additional factual information and will defer its coverage decision until that information is received. We intend to vigorously defend our interests; however, we cannot give any assurance that we will not be impleaded into the action, or that, if we are impleaded, that we would prevail. Our product liability coverage for PPA claims expired for claims made after June 15, 2002. Although we renewed our product liability coverage for coverage after June 15, 2002, that policy excludes future PPA claims in accordance with the standard industry exclusion. Consequently, as of June 15, 2002, we will provide for legal defense costs and indemnity payments involving PPA claims on a going forward basis as incurred, including the Mississippi lawsuit that was filed after June 15, 2002. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain product liability insurance in the future for PPA claims with adequate coverage limits at commercially reasonable prices for subsequent periods. From time to time in the future, we may be subject to further litigation resulting from products containing PPA that we formerly distributed. We intend to vigorously defend our interests; however, we cannot give any assurance we will prevail. WE DEPEND ON LICENSES FROM OTHERS, AND ANY LOSS OF THESE LICENSES COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS, MARKET SHARE AND PROFITABILITY. We have acquired the rights to manufacture, use and/or market certain products. We also expect to continue to obtain licenses for other products and technologies in the future. Our license agreements generally require us to develop the markets for the licensed products. If we do not develop these markets, the licensors may be entitled to terminate these license agreements. We cannot be certain that we will fulfill all of our obligations under any particular license agreement for any variety of reasons, including insufficient resources to adequately develop and market a product, lack of market development despite our efforts and lack of product acceptance. Our failure to fulfill our obligations could result in the loss of our rights under a license agreement. 24 Certain products we have the right to license are at certain stages of clinical tests and FDA approval. Failure of any licensed product to receive regulatory approval could result in the loss of our rights under its license agreement. OUR POLICIES REGARDING RETURNS, ALLOWANCES AND CHARGEBACKS, AND MARKETING PROGRAMS ADOPTED BY WHOLESALERS, MAY REDUCE OUR REVENUES IN FUTURE FISCAL PERIODS. Based on industry practice, generic product manufacturers, including us, have liberal return policies and have been willing to give customers post-sale inventory allowances. Under these arrangements, from time to time, we give our customers credits on our generic products that our customers hold in inventory after we have decreased the market prices of the same generic products. Therefore, if additional competitors enter the marketplace and significantly lower the prices of any of their competing products, we would likely reduce the price of our comparable products. As a result, we would be obligated to provide significant credits to our customers who are then holding inventories of such products, which could reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period when the credits are accrued. Like our competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to wholesale customers that have contracts with us for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing organizations, pharmacies or other retail customers. A chargeback is the difference between the price the wholesale customer pays and the price that the wholesale customer's end-customer pays for a product. Although we establish allowances based on our prior experience and our best estimates of the impact that these policies may have in subsequent periods, we cannot assure you that our allowancess are adequate or that actual product returns, allowances and chargebacks will not exceed our estimates. INVESTIGATIONS OF THE CALCULATION OF AVERAGE WHOLESALE PRICES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Many government and third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, and managed care organizations, or MCOs, reimburse doctors and others for the purchase of certain prescription drugs based on a drug's average wholesale price, or AWP. In the past several years, state and federal government agencies have conducted ongoing investigations of manufacturers' reporting practices with respect to AWP, in which they have suggested that reporting of inflated AWP's have led to excessive payments for prescription drugs. KV and/or ETHEX have been named as defendants in certain multi-defendant cases alleging that the defendants reported improper or fraudulent pharmaceutical pricing information, i.e., AWP and/or Wholesale Acquisition Cost, or WAC, information, which caused the governmental plaintiffs to incur excessive costs for pharmaceutical products under the Medicaid program. Cases of this type have been filed against KV and/or ETHEX and other pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants by the State of Massachusetts, the State of Alabama, the State of Mississippi, New York City, and approximately 40 counties in New York State. The New York City case and all New York County cases have been transferred to the Federal District Court for the District of Massachusetts for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings under the Average Wholesale Price Multidistrict Litigation. One of the counties, Erie County, challenged the transfer and the Erie County Case has been remanded to state court. Each of these actions is in the early stages, with fact discovery at beginning phases in the Alabama, Massachusetts and Mississippi cases, but has not yet commenced in the New York City/Counties or the Erie County case. We intend to vigorously defend our interests in the actions described above; however, we cannot give any assurance we will prevail. We believe that various other governmental entities have commenced investigations into the generic and branded pharmaceutical industry at large regarding pricing and price reporting practices. Although we believe our pricing and reporting practices have complied in all material respects with our legal obligations, we cannot give any assurance that we would prevail if legal actions are instituted by these governmental entities. 25 RISING INSURANCE COSTS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT PROFITABILITY. The cost of insurance, including workers' compensation, product liability and general liability insurance, has risen significantly in the past few years and is expected to continue to increase. In response, we may increase deductibles and/or decrease certain coverages to mitigate these costs. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverages, could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. OUR GROSS PROFIT MAY FLUCTUATE FROM PERIOD TO PERIOD DEPENDING UPON OUR PRODUCT SALES MIX, OUR PRODUCT PRICING, AND OUR COSTS TO MANUFACTURE OR PURCHASE PRODUCTS. Our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will depend to a significant extent upon our branded and generic/non-branded product sales mix. Our sales of branded products create higher gross margins than our sales of generic/non-branded products. As a result, our sales mix (the proportion of total sales between branded products and generic/non-branded products) will significantly impact our gross profit from period to period. During fiscal 2006, sales of our branded products and generic/non-branded products accounted for 39.6% and 55.4%, respectively, of our net revenues. During that same period, branded products and generic/non-branded products contributed 52.7% and 45.9%, respectively, to our consolidated gross profits. Factors that may cause our sales mix to vary include: o the amount of new product introductions; o marketing exclusivity, if any, which may be obtained on certain products; o the level of competition in the marketplace for certain products; o the availability of raw materials and finished products from our suppliers; o the scope and outcome of governmental regulatory action that may involve us; and o periodic dependence on a small number of products for a significant portion of net revenue or income. The profitability of our product sales is also dependent upon the prices we are able to charge for our products, the costs to purchase products from third parties, and our ability to manufacture our products in a cost effective manner. INCREASED INDEBTEDNESS MAY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. At March 31, 2006, we had $243.0 million of outstanding debt, consisting of $200.0 million of 2.5% Contingent Convertible Subordinated Notes (the "Notes") and a $43.0 million mortgage loan entered into in March 2006. We also have credit agreements with two banks that provide revolving lines of credit for borrowing up to $140.0 million. The credit agreements provide for $80.0 million in revolving lines of credit along with supplemental credit lines of $60.0 million that are available for financing acquisitions. These credit facilities expire in October 2006 and June 2006, respectively. At March 31, 2006, we had no cash borrowings under either credit facility. Our level of indebtedness may have several important effects on our future operations, including: o we will be required to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of any principal or interest due on our outstanding indebtedness; o our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase the impact of negative changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as competitive pressures; and o the level of our outstanding debt and the impact it has on our ability to meet debt covenants associated with our revolving line of credit arrangement may affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes. 26 General economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control, may affect our future performance. As a result, our business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may, among other things: o seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; o refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; o sell selected assets; o reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or o reduce or delay planned research and development expenditures. These measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. We may also consider issuing additional debt or equity securities in the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to refinance existing debt, or for general corporate purposes. If a material acquisition or investment is completed, our operating results and financial condition could change materially in future periods. However, no assurance can be given that additional funds will be available on satisfactory terms, or at all, to fund such activities. Holders of the Notes may require us to offer to repurchase their Notes for cash upon the occurrence of a change in control or on May 16, 2008, 2013, 2018, 2023 and 2028. The source of funds for any repurchase required as a result of any such events will be our available cash or cash generated from operating activities or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets, sales of equity or funds provided by a new controlling entity. The use of available cash to fund the repurchase of the Notes may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. WE MAY HAVE FUTURE CAPITAL NEEDS AND FUTURE ISSUANCES OF EQUITY SECURITIES WILL RESULT IN DILUTION. We anticipate that funds generated internally, together with funds available under our credit facility, and the proceeds received from our Notes offering completed in May 2003, will be sufficient to implement our business plan for the foreseeable future, subject to additional needs that may arise if acquisition opportunities become available. We also may need additional capital if unexpected events occur or opportunities arise. Additional capital might be raised through the public or private sale of debt or equity securities. If we sell equity securities, holders of our common stock could experience dilution. Furthermore, those securities could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of the Class A or Class B common stock. We cannot assure you that additional funding will be accessible or available on terms favorable to us. If the funding is not available, we may not be able to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. WE MAY INCUR CHARGES FOR INTANGIBLE ASSET IMPAIRMENT. When we acquire the rights to manufacture and sell a product, we record the aggregate purchase price, along with the value of the product related liabilities we assume, as intangible assets. We use the assistance of valuation experts to help us allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the various intangible assets we have acquired. Then, we must estimate the economic useful life of each of these intangible assets in order to amortize their cost as an expense in our consolidated statement of income over the estimated economic useful life of the related asset. The factors that drive the actual economic useful life of a pharmaceutical product are inherently uncertain, and include patent protection, physician loyalty and prescribing patterns, competition by products prescribed for similar indications, future introductions of competing products not yet FDA approved, the impact of promotional 27 efforts and many other issues. We use all of these factors in initially estimating the economic useful lives of our products, and we also continuously monitor these factors for indications of appropriate revisions. In assessing the recoverability of our intangible assets, we must make assumptions regarding estimated undiscounted future cash flows and other factors. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows do not exceed the carrying value of the intangible assets we must determine the fair value of the intangible assets. If the fair value of the intangible assets is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss will be recognized in an amount equal to the difference. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets. We review intangible assets for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If we determine that an intangible asset is impaired, a non-cash impairment charge would be recognized. As circumstances after an acquisition can change, the value of intangible assets may not be realized by us. If we determine that impairment has occurred, we would be required to write-off the impaired portion of the unamortized intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. In addition, in the event of a sale of any of our assets, we cannot be certain that our recorded value of such intangible assets would be recovered. THERE ARE INHERENT UNCERTAINTIES INVOLVED IN THE ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS USED IN THE PREPARATION OF OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, AND ANY CHANGES IN THOSE ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements that we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The most significant estimates we are required to make under U.S. GAAP include, but are not limited to, those related to revenue recognition, sales allowances, inventories and cost of goods sold, determining the useful life or impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, litigation outcomes and related liabilities, income taxes and self-insurance programs. We periodically evaluate estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for reasonableness, including estimates provided by third parties. Appropriate adjustments to the estimates will be made prospectively, as necessary, based on such periodic evaluations. We base our estimates on, among other things, currently available information, market conditions, historical experience and various assumptions, which together form the basis of making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Although we believe that our assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, estimates would differ if different assumptions were utilized and these estimates may prove in the future to have been inaccurate. OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENT TO ENSURE TIMELY AND RELIABLE FINANCIAL INFORMATION. As reported under Item 9A of this Form 10-K, our management completed its assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2006, and based on that assessment concluded that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2006. Our independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, has issued an attestation report on management's assessment that expresses unqualified opinions on management's assessment and on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, our operations continue to place stress on our internal controls, and there can be no assurance that our control procedures will continue to be adequate. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures may be limited by a variety of risks, including, among other things, faulty human judgment, simple errors, omissions and mistakes, collusion of two or more people or inappropriate override of procedures. If we fail to have effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in place, we may be unable to provide timely, accurate and reliable financial information. 28 RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS, REIMBURSEMENT POLICIES OF THIRD PARTIES, COST CONTAINMENT MEASURES AND HEALTH CARE REFORM COULD AFFECT THE MARKETING, PRICING AND DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Various legislative proposals, including proposals relating to prescription drug benefits, could materially impact the pricing and sale of our products. Further, reimbursement policies of third parties may affect the marketing of our products. Our ability to market our products will depend in part on reimbursement levels for the cost of the products and related treatment established by health care providers, including government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs and MCOs. Insurance companies, HMOs, MCOs, Medicaid and Medicare administrators and others are increasingly challenging the pricing of pharmaceutical products and reviewing their reimbursement practices. In addition, the following factors could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, which could result in lower prices and a reduced demand for our products: o the trend toward managed health care in the United States; o the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs; o legislative proposals to reform health care and government insurance programs; and o price controls and non-reimbursement of new and highly priced medicines for which the economic therapeutic rationales are not established. These cost-containment measures and health care reform proposals could affect our ability to sell our products. The reimbursement status of a newly approved pharmaceutical product may be uncertain. Reimbursement policies may not include some of our products. Even if reimbursement policies of third parties grant reimbursement status for a product, we cannot be sure that these reimbursement policies will remain in effect. Limits on reimbursement could reduce the demand for our products. The unavailability or inadequacy of third party reimbursement for our products could reduce or possibly eliminate demand for our products. We are unable to predict whether governmental authorities will enact additional legislation or regulation which will affect third party coverage and reimbursement that reduces demand for our products. Our ability to market generic pharmaceutical products successfully depends, in part, on the acceptance of the products by independent third parties, including pharmacies, government formularies and other retailers, as well as patients. We manufacture a number of prescription drugs which are used by patients who have severe health conditions. Although the brand-name products generally have been marketed safely for many years prior to our introduction of a generic/non-branded alternative, there is a possibility that one of these products could produce a side effect which could result in an adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptance by managed care providers, pharmacies and other retailers, customers and patients. If these independent third parties do not accept our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. EXTENSIVE INDUSTRY REGULATION HAS HAD, AND WILL CONTINUE TO HAVE, A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS, ESPECIALLY OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTION CAPABILITIES. All pharmaceutical companies, including us, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA and, to a lesser extent, the DEA and state government agencies. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of 29 products and total or partial suspension of production, as well as other regulatory actions against our products and us. We market certain drug products in the United States without FDA approval under certain "grandfather" clauses and statutory and regulatory exceptions to the pre-market approval requirement for "new drugs" under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA. A determination as to whether a particular product does or does not require FDA pre-market review and approval can involve consideration of numerous complex and imprecise factors. If a determination is made by the FDA that any product marketed without approval requires such approval, the FDA may institute enforcement actions, including product seizure, or an action seeking an injunction against further marketing and may or may not allow sufficient time to obtain the necessary approvals before it seeks to curtail further marketing. For example, in October 2002, FDA sent warning letters to us and other manufacturers and distributors of unapproved prescription drug products containing the expectorant guaifenesin as a single entity in a solid oral extended-release dosage form. Citing the recent approval of one such product, the FDA warning letters asserted that the marketing of all such products without NDA or ANDA approval should stop. The FDA subsequently agreed to allow continued manufacture through May 2003 and sale through November 2003 of the products, and we complied with those deadlines. We are not in a position to predict whether or when the FDA might choose to raise similar objections to the marketing without NDA or ANDA approval of another category or categories of drug products represented in our product lines. In the event such objections are raised, we could be required or could decide to cease distribution of additional products until pre-market approval is obtained. In addition, we may not be able to obtain any particular approval that may be required or such approvals may not be obtained on a timely basis. In addition to compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, requirements, drug manufacturers must register each manufacturing facility with the FDA. Manufacturers and distributors of prescription drug products are also required to be registered in the states where they are located and in certain states that require registration by out-of-state manufacturers and distributors. Manufacturers also must be registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, and similar applicable state and local regulatory authorities if they handle controlled substances, and with the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and similar state and local regulatory authorities if they generate toxic or dangerous wastes, and must also comply with other applicable DEA and EPA requirements. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with cGMP and are registered with the appropriate state and federal agencies. Non-compliance with applicable cGMP requirements or other rules and regulations of these agencies can result in fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, refusal of government agencies to grant pre-market approval or other product applications and criminal prosecution. Despite our ongoing efforts, cGMP requirements and other regulatory requirements, and related enforcement priorities and policies may evolve over time and we may not be able to remain continuously in material compliance with all of these requirements. From time to time, governmental agencies have conducted investigations of pharmaceutical companies relating to the distribution and sale of drug products to government purchasers or subject to government or third party reimbursement. We believe that we have marketed our products in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. However, standards sought to be applied in the course of governmental investigations can be complex and may not be consistent with standards previously applied to our industry generally or previously understood by us to be applicable to our activities. The process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming and costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental or third-party approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping many of our products. Consequently, there is always the chance that we will not obtain FDA or other necessary approvals, or that the rate, timing and cost of such approvals, will adversely affect our product introduction plans or results of operations. In many instances we carry inventories of products in anticipation of launch, and if such products are not subsequently launched, we may be required to write-off the related inventory. 30 OUR INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. Numerous pharmaceutical companies are involved or are becoming involved in the development and commercialization of products incorporating advanced drug delivery systems. Our business is highly competitive, and we believe that competition will continue to increase in the future. Many pharmaceutical companies have invested, and are continuing to invest, significant resources in the development of proprietary drug delivery systems. In addition, several companies have been formed to develop specific advanced drug delivery systems. Many of these pharmaceutical and other companies who may develop drug delivery systems have greater financial, research and development and other resources than we do, as well as more experience in commercializing pharmaceutical and drug delivery products. Those companies may develop products using their drug delivery systems more rapidly than we do or develop drug delivery systems that are more effective than ours and thus may represent significant potential competitors. Our branded pharmaceutical business is subject to competition from larger companies with greater financial resources that can support larger sales forces. The ability of a sales force to compete is affected by the number of physician calls it can make, which is directly related to its size, the brand name recognition it has in the marketplace and its advertising and promotional efforts. We are not as well established in our branded product sales initiative as larger pharmaceutical companies and could be adversely affected by competition from companies with larger, more established sales forces and higher advertising and promotional expenditures. Our generic pharmaceutical business is also subject to competitive pressures from a number of companies, some of which have greater financial resources and broader product lines. To the extent that we succeed in being first to market with a generic/non-branded version of a significant product, our sales and profitability can be substantially increased in the period following the introduction of such product and prior to additional competitors' introduction of an equivalent product. Competition is generally on price, which can have an adverse effect on profitability as falling prices erode margins. In addition, the continuing consolidation of the customer base (wholesale distributors and retail drug chains) and the impact of managed care organizations will increase competition as suppliers compete for fewer customers. Consolidation of competitors will increase competitive pressures as larger suppliers are able to offer a broader product line. Further, companies continually seek new ways to defeat generic competition, such as filing applications for new patents to cover drugs whose original patent protection is about to expire, developing and marketing other dosage forms including patented controlled-release products or developing and marketing as over-the-counter products those branded products which are about to lose exclusivity and face generic competition. In addition to litigation over patent rights, pharmaceutical companies are often the subject of objections by competing manufacturers over the qualities of their branded or generic products and/or their promotional activities. For example, marketers of branded products have challenged the marketing of certain of our non-branded products that do not require FDA approval and are not rated for therapeutic equivalence. Currently, KV and ETHEX are named as defendants in ongoing litigation with Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. regarding Solvay's allegations that ETHEX's comparative promotion of its Pangestyme(TM) CN 10 and Pangestyme(TM) CN 20 products to Solvay's Creon(R) 10 and Creon(R) 20 products resulted in false advertising and misleading statements under various Federal and state laws, and constituted unfair and deceptive trade practices. Discovery has concluded. The case is expected to be tried in calendar 2006, but no trial date has been set. We intend to vigorously defend our interests; however, we cannot give any assurance we will prevail. Competitors' objections also may be pursued in complaints before governmental agencies or courts. These objections can be very expensive to pursue or to defend, and the outcome of agency or court review of the issues raised is impossible to predict. In these proceedings, companies can be subjected to restrictions on their activities or to liability for alleged damages despite their belief that their products and procedures are in full compliance 31 with appropriate standards. In addition, companies that pursue what they believe are legitimate complaints about competing manufacturers and/or their products may nevertheless be unable to obtain any relief. OUR INDUSTRY EXPERIENCES RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE. The drug delivery industry is a rapidly evolving field. A number of companies, including major pharmaceutical companies, are developing and marketing advanced delivery systems for the controlled delivery of drugs. Products currently on the market or under development by competitors may deliver the same drugs, or other drugs to treat the same indications, as many of the products we market or are developing. The first pharmaceutical branded or generic/non-branded product to reach the market in a therapeutic area often obtains and maintains significant market share relative to later entrants to the market. Our products also compete with drugs marketed not only in similar delivery systems but also in traditional dosage forms. New drugs, new therapeutic approaches or future developments in alternative drug delivery technologies may provide advantages over the drug delivery systems and products that we are marketing, have developed or are developing. Changes in drug delivery technology may require substantial investments by companies to maintain their competitive position and may provide opportunities for new competitors to enter the industry. Developments by others could render our drug delivery products or other technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. If others develop drugs which are cheaper or more effective or which are first to market, sales or prices of our products could decline. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK HAS BEEN AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE. The market prices of securities of companies engaged in pharmaceutical development and marketing activities historically have been highly volatile. In addition, any or all of the following may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial products; delays in the development or approval of products; developments or disputes concerning patent or other proprietary rights; publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products marketed by us or products under development; regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries; publicity regarding actual or potential acquisitions; public concern as to the safety of drug technologies or products; financial results which are different from securities analysts' forecasts; economic and other external factors; and period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. FUTURE SALES OF COMMON STOCK COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR CLASS A OR CLASS B COMMON STOCK. As of March 31, 2006, an aggregate of 3,162,307 shares of our Class A common stock and 356,849 shares of our Class B common stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options under our stock option plans, and an additional 611,494 shares of our Class A common stock and 1,879,500 shares of Class B common stock were reserved for the issuance of additional options and shares under these plans. In addition, as of March 31, 2006, 8,691,880 shares of Class A common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of $200.0 million principal amount of convertible notes, and 337,500 shares of our Class A common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of our outstanding 7% cumulative convertible preferred stock. MANAGEMENT STOCKHOLDERS CONTROL OUR COMPANY. At March 31, 2006, our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 13% of our Class A Common Stock and approximately 62% of our Class B Common Stock. As a result, these persons control approximately 55% of the combined voting power represented by our outstanding securities. These persons will retain effective voting control of our company and are expected to continue to have the ability to effectively 32 determine the outcome of any matter being voted on by our stockholders, including the election of directors and any merger, sale of assets or other change in control of our company. Future sales of our common stock and instruments convertible or exchangeable into our common stock and transactions involving equity derivatives relating to our common stock, or the perception that such sales or transactions could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This could, in turn, have an adverse effect on the trading price of the Notes resulting from, among other things, a delay in the ability of holders to convert their Notes into our Class A common stock. OUR CHARTER PROVISIONS AND DELAWARE LAW MAY HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECTS. Our Amended Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of common stock in two classes, Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Each share of Class A common stock entitles the holder to one-twentieth of one vote on all matters to be voted upon by stockholders, while each share of Class B common stock entitles the holder to one full vote on each matter considered by the stockholders. In addition, our directors have the authority to issue additional shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The existence of two classes of common stock with different voting rights and the ability of our directors to issue additional shares of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our voting stock. Other provisions of our Amended Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, such as a classified board of directors, also may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to our company could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder" (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. In addition, our senior management is entitled to certain payments upon a change in control and all of our stock option plans provide for the acceleration of vesting in the event of a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ------------------------- None. 33 