Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These risk factors may not include all of the important risks that could affect our business or our industry that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or that could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. The following discussion of our risk factors should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be considered an indication of future performance. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are prepared using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States applicable to a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. The historical consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. The assessment of our ability to continue as a going concern was made by management considering, among other factors: (i) our need to obtain additional capital; (ii) the suspension of shipment of all products manufactured by us and the requirements under the consent decree with the FDA; (iii) the timing and number of approved products that will be reintroduced to the market and the related costs; (iv) the potential outcome with respect to the governmental inquiries, litigation or other matters described in Note 16—“Commitments and 39 Table of Contents Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K; and (v) our ability to comply with debt covenants. Our assessment was further affected by our fiscal year 2009 net loss of $313.6 million and the outstanding balance of cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities of $75.7 million as of March 31, 2009. For periods subsequent to March 31, 2009, we expect losses to continue because we are unable to generate any significant revenues from our own manufactured products until we are able to resume shipping certain or many of our approved products, which currently is not expected to occur until the fourth quarter of calendar year 2010 at the earliest. In addition, we must meet ongoing operating costs as well as costs related to the steps we are currently taking to prepare for reintroducing our approved products to the market. If we are not able to obtain the FDA’s clearance to resume manufacturing and distribution of our approved products in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity will continue to be materially adversely affected. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We believe that we are not in compliance with one or more of the requirements of our mortgage loan arrangement as of March 31, 2009 (see Note 14—“Long-Term Debt” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Failure by us to comply with the requirements of the mortgage loan arrangement or to otherwise receive a waiver from the mortgage lender for any noncompliance could result in our outstanding mortgage debt obligation accelerating and immediately becoming due and payable. If the acceleration occurs and the mortgage debt is not immediately paid in full, an event of default could also be deemed to have occurred under the $200 million principal amount of 2.5% Contingent Convertible Subordinated Notes. If an event of default is deemed to have occurred on the Notes, the principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest could also become immediately due and payable. The acceleration of these outstanding debt obligations would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and cash flows. Based on current financial projections, we believe the continuation of our company as a going concern is primarily dependent on our ability to address, among other factors: (i) our need to obtain additional capital; (ii) the suspension of shipment of all products manufactured by us and the requirements under the consent decree with the FDA; (iii) the timing and number of approved products that will be reintroduced to the market and the related costs; (iv) the potential outcome with respect to the governmental inquiries, litigation or other matters described in Note 16—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K; and (v) our ability to comply with debt covenants. While we address these matters, we must continue to meet expected near-term obligations, including normal course operating cash requirements and costs associated with reintroducing our approved products to the market (such as costs related to our employees, facilities and FDA compliance), remaining payments associated with the acquisition of the rights to Gestiva™ (see Note 6—“Acquisitions” and Note 26—“Subsequent Events” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K), the financial obligations pursuant to the plea agreement (see Item 1—“Business—(b) Significant Recent Developments—Plea Agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K), as well as the significant costs, such as legal and consulting fees, associated with the steps taken by us in connection with the consent decree and the litigation and governmental inquiries. If we are not able to obtain the FDA’s clearance to resume manufacturing and distribution of our approved products in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, and/or if we experience adverse outcomes with respect to any of the governmental inquiries or litigation described in Note 16—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity will continue to be materially adversely affected. In the near term, we are focused on meeting the requirements of the consent decree, which will allow our approved products to be reintroduced to the market, and are pursuing various means to increase cash. Since March 31, 2009, we have generated non-recurring cash proceeds to support our on-going operating and compliance requirements from the receipt of tax refunds, the monetization of our ARS and the sale of certain other assets (see Note 26—“Subsequent Events” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the cash received). We also generated cash from the sale of certain products not manufactured by us under the distribution and supply agreement with 40 Table of Contents Purdue (see Note 16—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). While these cash proceeds were sufficient to meet near-term cash requirements, we are pursuing ongoing efforts to increase cash including the continued implementation of cost savings, divestiture of PDI and other assets and the return of certain or many of our approved products to market in a timely manner. In addition, in order to continue to meet the expected near-term obligations described above, we will still need to obtain additional capital through additional asset sales. Based on our continuing assessment and identification of assets for future sale and the results of the currently proposed asset sales, we may elect to engage in external financing efforts. We currently do not anticipate issuing equity securities to raise additional capital. However, we continue to evaluate our capital needs and availability of financing to assess and identify the best available external financing alternatives. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to realize the cost reductions we anticipate from reducing our operations or our employee base, that some or many of our approved products can be returned to the market in a timely manner, that our higher profit approved products will return to the market in the near term, that we can obtain additional cash through asset sales, or that external financing can be obtained when needed, under acceptable terms or in the amounts required. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to sell assets and raise additional capital in the near term, we will be required to further reduce our operations, including further reductions of our employee base, or we may be required to cease operations in order to offset the lack of available funding. We may not be able to raise sufficient funds to continue our current operations. We are expending significant efforts to raise additional capital by, among other things, pursuing asset sales (as described in the next risk factor). We may also pursue obtaining bank loans and/or engaging in debt and/or equity financings. We have retained Morris Anderson & Associates Ltd., a financial and management consulting firm, to advise us with respect to restructuring our operations and cash management efforts. We also have retained Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated to advise us with respect to raising additional capital. Our ability to obtain additional capital has been and continues to be materially and negatively affected by a number of factors. The current and evolving credit market condition and general adverse economic conditions have caused the cost of prospective debt and equity financings to increase considerably. These circumstances have materially adversely affected liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings unattractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing. We also anticipate that the uncertainty created by the ongoing governmental inquiries and private litigation, steps taken by us in connection with the nationwide recall and suspension of shipment of all products manufactured by us, the consent decree, and the uncertainty with respect to when we will resume shipment of our products, if at all, will affect our ability to obtain capital on a timely basis, or at all. In light of the factors described above, we may not be able to obtain additional capital. Even if we are able to obtain additional financing or issue debt securities under these circumstances, the cost to us will likely be high and the terms and conditions are likely to be onerous. In addition, if we were to issue equity securities, such securities likely would be priced at or below current market prices. As a result, sales of equity securities at or below current market prices likely would result in substantial dilution for current shareholders who purchased our equity securities at or above current market prices. If we are unsuccessful in our initiative to raise additional capital, our cash balances could deteriorate further, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. We have decided to sell certain assets. Such sales could pose risks and may materially adversely affect our business. Our failure to liquidate or sell assets on terms favorable to us, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. We currently plan to sell certain of our assets, such as our PDI subsidiary. However, due to the general economic slowdown, we will likely be exposed to risks related to the overall macro-economic environment, including a lower rate of return than we have historically experienced on our invested assets and being limited in our ability to sell assets. 41 Table of Contents As noted above, we plan to market for sale certain assets and will seek to identify other assets for potential sale. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in finding suitable purchasers for the sale of such assets. Even if we are able to find purchasers, we may not be able to obtain attractive terms and conditions for such sales, including attractive pricing. In addition, divestitures of businesses may also involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management and employee attention, significant costs and expenses, the loss of customer relationships, a decrease in revenues and earnings associated with the divested business, and the disruption of operations in the affected business. In addition, divestitures potentially involve significant post-closing separation activities, which could involve the expenditure of significant financial and employee resources. Our inability to consummate identified sales or manage the post-separation transition arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unsuccessful in our initiative to raise additional capital through asset sales, our cash balances could deteriorate further, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to remain a going concern. If we are unable to address the issues identified in the consent decree and resume manufacturing and distribution of some or all of our approved products in a timely and cost effective manner, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows will continue to be materially adversely affected. On March 2, 2009, we entered into a consent decree with the FDA regarding our drug manufacturing and distribution, which is described in more detail under Item 1—“Business—(b) Significant Recent Developments” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actions and the requirements under the consent decree have had, and are expected to continue to have, a material adverse effect on our liquidity position and operating results. We do not expect to generate any significant revenues from products that we manufacture until we resume shipping certain or many of our approved products. In the meantime, we must meet ongoing operating costs related to our employees, facilities and FDA compliance, as well as costs related to the steps we currently are taking to prepare for reintroducing our products to the market. The consent decree requires us, before resuming manufacturing, to retain an independent cGMP expert to undertake a review of our facilities, policies, procedures and practices and to certify compliance with the FDA’s cGMP regulations. On January 13, 2010, our independent cGMP expert, Lachman, notified the FDA that it had performed a comprehensive inspection and that our facilities and controls are in compliance with cGMP and the consent decree with respect to the first group of products that we seek to manufacture and market. Once a certification from Lachman consultants regarding the first group of products that we seek to manufacture and market is issued, we expect that the FDA will re-inspect our facilities and determine whether our facilities are in compliance. A successful FDA inspection is a prerequisite to us resuming shipment of our products. We cannot predict with certainty the timing or the outcome of the product certification or the inspection. We currently do not expect to resume product shipments until the fourth quarter of calendar year 2010 at the earliest. In addition, we expect that any resumption of shipments will be limited initially to certain selected products and will be expanded incrementally thereafter. Despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that our initiatives intended to comply with the requirements under the consent decree and enable us to reintroduce certain of our approved products to the market will be successful within the time frames currently projected by management or at all. If we are not able to obtain FDA’s permission to resume manufacturing and distribution of our products in a timely manner at a reasonable cost, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows will continue to be materially adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, our top priority is to maintain and attempt to increase our limited cash and financial resources. As a result, if we determine that our current goal of meeting the consent decree’s requirements and returning our approved products to market is likely to be significantly delayed, we may decide to further reduce our operations, including further reductions of our employee base, and to significantly curtail some or all of our efforts to meet the consent decree’s requirements and return our approved products to market. Such decision would be made based on our ability to manage our near-term cash obligations, to obtain additional capital through asset sales and/or external financing and to expeditiously meet the consent decree’s requirements and return our approved 42 Table of Contents products to market. If such decision were to be made, we currently anticipate that we would focus our efforts on developing product candidates in our development portfolio that we believe have the highest potential return on investment, which we currently believe to be primarily Gestiva™ (17-alphahydroxyprogesterone caproate). We also expect to evaluate other alternatives available to us in order to increase our cash balance. Even if we are able to address the issues identified in the consent decree and resume manufacturing and distribution of some or all of our approved products in a timely and cost effective manner, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could continue to be materially adversely affected. As discussed above, we have been unable to manufacture or ship any of our products for an extended period of time. We operate in a highly competitive industry and it is possible that, even if we are able to return some or all of our approved products to the market, certain of our existing customers will purchase smaller quantities or no quantities of our products. Such a potential loss of market share would likely result in limiting the prices we are able to charge for our approved products, which will negatively impact our gross margin. In addition, our financial position is expected to be adversely affected by our inability to manufacture and distribute our unapproved products until such time as there is an approved ANDA or NDA for each such product, which will only occur if we decide to pursue, and are able to fund, the studies required for such approvals. It is possible that we may not be able to return all or many of our unapproved products to the market. Moreover, entering into the consent decree may have damaged our reputation in the market, which could result in a competitive disadvantage. Furthermore, general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control, may affect our future performance. Therefore, even after we are able to resume manufacturing and shipment of our approved products, our business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above historic levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We face continuing risks in connection with the plea agreement with the Department of Justice related to allegations of failure to make and submit field alert reports to the FDA in September 2008. As more fully described in Item 1—“Business—(b) Significant Recent Developments—Plea Agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the recommendation of the Special Committee, our Board approved entering into a plea agreement with the Department of Justice that relates to allegations of failure to make and submit field alert reports to the FDA in September 2008 regarding the discovery of certain undistributed tablets that failed to meet product specifications. In exchange for the voluntary guilty plea by ETHEX, the Department of Justice agreed that no further federal prosecution will be brought in the Eastern District of Missouri against ETHEX, KV or Ther-Rx regarding allegations of the misbranding and adulteration of any oversized tablets of drugs manufactured by us, and the failure to file required reports regarding these drugs and patients’ use of these drugs with the FDA, during the period commencing on January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008. However, the plea agreement does not bind any governmental office or agency other than the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri and the Office of Consumer Litigation and we cannot rule out regulatory or other actions by governmental entities not party to the plea agreement. In addition, the plea agreement does not limit the rights and authority of the United States of America to take any civil, tax or administrative action against us, and any recommendation in the plea agreement as to the amount of loss or restitution is not binding upon the United States in any civil or administrative action by the government against us. We may also become subject to claims by private parties with respect to the alleged conduct that is the subject of the plea agreement. Pursuant to the plea agreement, we are subject to a criminal fine in the aggregate amount of $23.4 million, payable in four installments. If we fail to make any of the installment payments, the United States Attorneys Office, in its sole discretion, may void the plea agreement, keep any payments already made under the plea agreement and prosecute us using, among other evidence, the admissions made in the plea agreement. 43 Table of Contents An adverse resolution of the private litigation and governmental inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are fully cooperating in certain governmental matters, including the SEC informal inquiry and the pending investigation by the Office of Inspector General of HHS into potential false claims under Title 42 of the U.S. Code. (See Note 16—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.) We are not aware whether, or the extent to which, any pending governmental inquiries and/or related private litigation might result in the payment of fines or penalties or the imposition of operating restrictions on our business; however, if we are required to pay fines or penalties, the amount could be material. Furthermore, any governmental enforcement action could require us to operate under significant restrictions, place substantial burdens on management, hinder our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and/or cause us to incur significant costs. The pending governmental inquiries could result in, among other things, indictment and criminal prosecution of our company or one or more of our subsidiaries. Any indictment, conviction or settlement arising out of these inquiries could result in our company or one or more of our subsidiaries being excluded from participation in federal healthcare programs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. In connection with the guilty plea by ETHEX pursuant to the plea agreement, ETHEX is expected to be excluded from participation in federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. As a result, HHS may use its discretionary authority to seek to similarly exclude our company from participation in federal healthcare programs. While we are in receipt of correspondence from the HHS stating that, absent any transfer of assets or operations that would trigger successor liability, HHS has no present intent to exercise its discretionary authority to exclude our company as a result of the guilty plea by ETHEX, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the stance the HHS is likely to take in the future. In addition, HHS may impose operating restrictions on us or subject us to requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. In addition, we are subject to a number of private litigation matters as more fully described in Note 16— “Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we do not prevail in one or more pending lawsuits, we may be required to pay a significant amount of monetary damages. Our ongoing private litigation and governmental inquiries also could impair our ability to raise additional capital. Continuing negative publicity from the consent decree, the plea agreement and ongoing litigation and governmental inquiries may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of the consent decree, the plea agreement, ongoing litigation and governmental inquiries and related matters, we have been the subject of negative publicity. This negative publicity may harm our relationships with current and future investors, government regulators, employees, customers and vendors. For example, negative publicity may adversely affect our reputation, which could harm our ability to obtain new customers, maintain existing business relationships with other parties and maintain a viable business in the future. Also, it is possible that the negative publicity and its effect on our work environment could cause our employees to terminate their employment or, if they remain employed by us, result in reduced morale that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, negative publicity has and may continue to adversely affect our stock price and, therefore, employees and prospective employees may also consider our stability and the value of any equity incentives when making decisions regarding employment opportunities. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 44 Table of Contents The consent decree, the plea agreement, the ongoing private litigation and governmental inquiries, and the internal investigation by the Audit Committee have resulted in significant fees, costs and expenses, diverted management time and resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. We have incurred significant costs associated with, or consequential to, the steps taken by us in connection with the nationwide recall and suspension of shipment of all products manufactured by us, the requirements under the consent decree, the plea agreement, the ongoing private litigation and governmental inquiries, and the internal investigation by the Audit Committee, including legal fees (including advancement of legal fees to individuals pursuant to our indemnification obligations), accounting fees, consulting fees and similar expenses. Although we believe that a portion of these expenditures may be recoverable from insurance policies that we have purchased, the insurance does not extend to all of these expenditures, the insurance limits may be insufficient even with respect to expenditures that would otherwise be covered, and the insurance carriers have reserved their rights to contest coverage under the insurance policies on multiple grounds. In addition, our Board, management and employees have expended a substantial amount of time in connection with these matters, diverting resources and attention that would otherwise have been directed toward our operations and implementation of our business strategy. We expect to continue to spend additional time and incur significant additional professional fees, expenses and costs, including administrative expenses similar to those discussed above, as well as costs associated with the Remedial Framework, including supplements, approved by the Audit Committee and adopted, either directly or through the Special Committee, by the Board. Pursuant to the plea agreement, we are subject to fines, restitution and forfeiture in the aggregate amount of $27.6 million. In addition, we are not aware whether, or the extent to which, any pending governmental inquiries and/or related private litigation might result in the payment of fines or penalties or the imposition of operating restrictions on our business; however, if we are required to pay fines or penalties, the amount could be material. In addition, if we do not prevail in one or more pending lawsuits, we may be required to pay a significant amount of monetary damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have been unable to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC. We have not filed with the SEC our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2008 (the “September 2008 Form 10-Q”), December 31, 2008 (the “December 2008 Form 10-Q”), June 30, 2009, September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009. In addition, KPMG LLP was unable to complete the SAS 100 review of the unaudited consolidated financial statements accompanying our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008 (the “June 2008 Form 10-Q”), filed by the Company with the SEC on August 11, 2008. As previously disclosed on our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 10, 2010, we concluded that the unaudited financial statements accompanying the June 2008 Form 10-Q contained errors in the application of certain accounting practices and procedures and should no longer be relied upon. On the same day this Annual Report on Form 10-K was filed with the SEC, we also filed the September 2008 Form 10-Q, the December 2008 Form 10-Q and an amendment to the June 2008 Form 10-Q which will contain the restatement of our consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2008 and the related consolidated statement of income and cash flows for the three months ended June 30, 2008. We are in the process of preparing the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2009, September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009. However, we are unable at this time to estimate when these reports will be filed with the SEC. Our efforts to become current with our SEC filings have required and will continue to require substantial management time and attention as well as additional accounting and legal expense. In addition, if we are unable to become current with our filings with the SEC, we may face several adverse consequences. Investors in our 45 Table of Contents securities will not have information regarding the current state of our business and financial condition with which to make decisions regarding investment in our securities. When this information does become available to investors, it may result in an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Also, we will not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 for a period of 12 months after the time we become current in our SEC filings. Until we are again eligible to use Form S-3, we would be required to use a registration statement on Form S-1 to register securities with the SEC or issue such securities in a private placement, which could increase the cost of raising capital. If we do not become current with our SEC filings, our securities may be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. In addition, we believe we are not in compliance with one or more of the requirements pursuant to a mortgage loan arrangement. See the risk factor entitled “We believe we are not in compliance with one or more of the requirements of an outstanding mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows” for more information. We are involved in various legal proceedings and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings. We are involved in various legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability, breach of contract, and shareholder class action lawsuits and proceedings relating to Medicaid reimbursements that involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief (see Note 16—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Any adverse determination with respect to any legal proceedings or inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. As discussed above, the Board in December 2008 appointed the Special Committee in response to the initiation of a series of putative class action shareholder lawsuits alleging violations of the federal securities laws by our company and certain individuals, the initiation of lawsuits alleging violations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), as well as the receipt by our company of an informal inquiry from the SEC and certain requests for information from the Office of the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri and FDA representatives working with that office. With respect to the securities and ERISA claims and related governmental inquiries, we maintain directors and officers liability insurance that we believe should cover a portion of the defense and potential liability costs associated with these matters. Nonetheless, the insurance does not extend to all of these expenditures, and the insurance limits may be insufficient even with respect to expenditures that would otherwise be covered. Moreover, the insurance carriers have reserved their rights to contest coverage under the insurance policies on multiple grounds. The expenses associated with these matters have been substantial, and we expect that they will continue to be so. Furthermore, defense of the litigations and cooperation with ongoing governmental inquiries is expected to divert management attention from normal course business operations. An adverse outcome with respect to these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, as previously disclosed, on December 5, 2008, the Board terminated the employment agreement of Marc S. Hermelin, the Chief Executive Officer of our company at that time, “for cause” (as that term is defined in such employment agreement). The Board also removed Mr. M. Hermelin as Chairman of the Board and as the Chief Executive Officer, effective December 5, 2008. In accordance with the termination provisions of his employment agreement, we determined that Mr. M. Hermelin would not be entitled to any severance benefits. Furthermore, as a result of the termination of Mr. M. Hermelin’s employment agreement “for cause,” we also determined we were no longer obligated for the retirement benefits specified in the employment agreement. However, Mr. M. Hermelin informed us that he believes he effectively retired from his employment with us prior to the termination of his employment agreement on December 5, 2008 by the Board. Although no litigation is pending regarding this matter, to the extent Mr. M. Hermelin elects to bring litigation and in the event we ultimately are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may be required to pay substantial amounts to Mr. M. Hermelin, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity position and capital resources. 46 Table of Contents We may be subject to substantial damages for product liability claims. The design, development, manufacturing and sale of our products involve an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims by consumers and other third parties in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects. In particular, the administration of drugs to humans may cause, or may appear to have caused, adverse side effects (including death) or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug has been administered to patients for some time. As described in Note 16—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are involved in various product liability claims, including both lawsuits and pre-litigation claims. Product liability claims are complex in nature and, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management’s attention, may adversely affect our reputation, may reduce demand for our products and may result in significant damages. We may also become subject to claims by private parties with respect to the alleged conduct that is the subject of the plea agreement. We currently have product liability insurance to protect against and manage the risks involved with our products, but we cannot provide assurances that the level or breadth of any insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover fully all potential claims. In addition, we are subject to the risk that our insurers will seek to deny coverage for claims that we believe should be covered. Furthermore, adequate insurance coverage might not be available in the future at acceptable costs, if at all. Significant judgments against us for product liability not covered or not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful, the adverse publicity and time and expense of defending such a claim may interfere with our business. Our industry is highly regulated and our products are subject to ongoing regulatory review, and even if we address the issues identified in the consent decree and resume manufacturing and distribution of some or all of our approved products, we likely will continue to be subject to heightened scrutiny with regard to our operations. Our company, our drug products, the manufacturing facilities for our drug products, the distribution of our drug products, and our promotion and marketing materials are subject to strict and continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory agencies for compliance with pre-approval and post-approval regulatory requirements, including cGMP regulations, adverse event reporting, advertising and product promotion regulations, and other requirements. As a result of our consent decree and the plea agreement, we anticipate that we will be scrutinized more closely than other companies by the FDA and other regulatory agencies, even if we address the issues identified in the consent decree and resume manufacturing and distribution. Failure to comply with manufacturing and other post-approval state or federal laws, regulations of the FDA and other regulatory agencies can, among other things, result in warning letters, fines, increased compliance expense, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, additional product recalls or seizures, forced discontinuance of or changes to important promotion and marketing campaigns, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The cost of compliance with pre- and post-approval regulation may have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the requirements or restrictions imposed on us or our products may change, either as a result of administratively adopted policies or regulations or as a result of the enactment of new laws and new government oversight. At present, the activities of pharmaceutical companies are subject to heightened scrutiny by federal and state regulators and legislators, and FDA enforcement is expected to increase. Any new statutory or regulatory provisions or policy changes could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials, and regulatory review and approval, as well as increased costs to assure compliance with any new post-approval regulatory requirements. 47 Table of Contents If we are unable to commercialize products under development or that we acquire, our future operating results may suffer. Certain products we develop or acquire will require significant additional development and investment prior to their commercialization. Our research and development activities, preclinical studies and clinical trials (where required), manufacturing and the anticipated marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by a wide range of governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA. To satisfy FDA regulatory approval standards for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we must, among other requirements, demonstrate in adequate and well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective. Even if we believe that data from our preclinical and clinical studies demonstrates safety and efficacy, our analysis of such data is subject to confirmation and interpretation by the FDA, which may have different views on the design, scope or results of our clinical trials, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA wields substantial discretion in deciding whether a drug meets the approval criteria, and even if approved, such approval may be conditioned on, among other things, restricted promotion, restricted distribution, a risk evaluation mitigation strategy, or post-marketing studies. Such restrictions may negatively affect our ability to market the drug among competitor products, as well as adversely affect our business. We expect that many of these products will not be commercially available for several years, if at all. We cannot assure you that such products or future products will be successfully developed, prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials (if required), meet applicable regulatory standards, or be capable of being manufactured in commercial quantities at reasonable cost or at all. If we are unable to commercialize products under development or that we acquire, our future operating results may suffer. Failure to recruit and enroll patients for clinical trials may cause the development and approval of Gestiva™ to be delayed. As described above, the process for obtaining FDA approval of a drug candidate requires demonstration of the drug candidate’s safety and efficacy in pre-clinical and clinical trials, including in human subjects. To yield clinically relevant information, these trials must be performed with an adequate number of patients. The failure to recruit and enroll appropriate patients for clinical trials, therefore, may cause delay in the development of product candidates. As previously disclosed, Hologic informed us in January 2009 that the FDA, in a complete response letter, (1) indicated it would not approve Gestiva™ until additional data and information are submitted to and accepted by the FDA and (2) requested Hologic to initiate a confirmatory clinical study and enroll a certain number of patients. We currently are working with Hologic to achieve the required patient enrollment and to submit the additional data and information in order to obtain FDA approval of the Gestiva NDA. Notwithstanding these efforts, we cannot provide any assurance that patient enrollment and submission of additional data and information will occur within the anticipated time schedule, or at all, or that the FDA will approve the Gestiva NDA. Delays in patient enrollment may occur for a variety of reasons. The completion of clinical trials depends, among other things, on Hologic’s ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients who remain in the Gestiva™ study until its conclusion. The enrollment of patients depends on many factors, including: • the patient eligibility criteria defined in the protocol; • the size of the patient population required for analysis of the trial’s therapeutic endpoints; • the proximity of patients to study sites; • the design of the trial; • the ability to recruit clinical trial investigators with the appropriate competencies and experience; • the ability to obtain and maintain patient consents; 48 Table of Contents • the risk that patients enrolled in clinical trials will drop out of the trials before completion; and • competition for patients by clinical trial programs for other treatments. The Gestiva™ confirmatory study competes with other clinical trials for other drug candidates, and such competition reduces the number and types of patients available for the confirmatory study, because some patients who might have opted to enroll in the Gestiva™ trial instead opt to enroll in a trial being conducted by another company. Delays in patient enrollment could impact Hologic’s ability to complete the confirmatory study and submit the data to the FDA. If we fail to pay to Hologic any of the remaining payments under the Amended Gestiva Agreement, our rights to the Gestiva assets will transfer back to Hologic. As discussed in Item 1—“Business—(d) Narrative Description Of Business—Ther-Rx—History of Our Branded Products Segment,” we entered into the Gestiva Amendment which modified the Original Gestiva Agreement. Pursuant to the Gestiva Amendment, we made a $70 million cash payment to Hologic upon execution of the Gestiva Amendment in January 2010. In addition, we are required to pay a series of additional future scheduled cash payments in the aggregate amount of $120 million upon successful completion of agreed upon milestones. (The date on which we make the final cash payment is referred to as the “Final Payment Date.”) If, prior to the Final Payment Date, we fail to timely pay a scheduled payment, we are obligated to transfer back to Hologic ownership of the Purchased Assets (as defined in the Amended Gestiva Agreement), including certain improvements made thereto by us, as well as other after-acquired assets and rights used by us in connection with the Gestiva business (the “Retransfer”). If the Retransfer were to occur, we would not be reimbursed for the payments we have made up to that point to Hologic under the Amended Gestiva Agreement. Our failure to pay any of the remaining payments under the Amended Gestiva Agreement and the resulting Retransfer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we are able to address the issues identified in the consent decree and resume our drug development plans, some of our product candidates may have to undergo rigorous and expensive clinical trials, the results of which are uncertain and could substantially delay or prevent us from bringing drugs to market. Before we receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our drug candidates, our drug candidates are subject to extensive pre-clinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. Conducting pre-clinical testing and clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, expensive, and uncertain process that often takes many years. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that pre-clinical testing or clinical trials of any drug candidates will demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates at all or to the extent necessary to obtain FDA approval. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier preclinical studies and clinical trials. We cannot assure you that we or our collaborators will successfully complete the planned clinical trials. Our collaborators or we may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval or commercializing our product candidates, including the following events: • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or the FDA may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical studies or to abandon development programs; • trial results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA; • we, independent institutional review boards or the FDA, may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and • the effects of our product candidates on patients may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use. 49 Table of Contents Even if we are able to address the issues identified in the consent decree and resume our drug development plans, our pre-clinical or clinical trials for some of our products under development may be unsuccessful or delayed. Significant delays in clinical trials could materially affect our product development costs and delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We do not know whether clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be redesigned or will be completed on schedule, if at all. There are a number of factors that may cause delays or suspension in clinical trials: • delays or failures in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a trial; • inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of acceptable materials for use in clinical trials; • the delay or failure in reaching agreement on contract terms with prospective study sites; • delays in recruiting patients to participate in a clinical trial; • the delay or failure in obtaining independent institutional review board review and approval of the clinical trial protocol; • the failure of third-party clinical trial managers, including clinical research organizations, to perform their oversight of the trials or meet expected deadlines; • the failure of our clinical investigational sites and related facilities and records to be in compliance with the FDA’s Good Clinical Practices, including the failure to pass FDA inspections of clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues; • inability to secure clinical trial insurance; • lack of demonstrated efficacy in the clinical trials; • our inability to reach agreement with the FDA on a trial design that we are able to execute; • difficulty in adequately following up with patients after treatment; or • changes in laws, regulation, or regulatory policy. If clinical trials for our drug candidates are unsuccessful, delayed or cancelled, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines, which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. Suspension of product shipments has exposed us to failure to supply claims from our customers and could expose us to additional claims in the future. In addition to the loss of revenue, the suspension of product shipments exposes us to possible claims for certain additional costs. Pursuant to arrangements between us and certain of our customers, such customers, despite the formal discontinuation action by us of our products, may assert, and certain customers, including CVS Pharmacy, Inc. have asserted, that we should compensate such customers for any additional costs they incurred for procuring products we did not supply. The amount of such compensation is affected by the price of any replacement product. Following our suspension of shipments, the price of certain products increased significantly, thereby potentially increasing the amount of any such compensation. While we have recorded an estimated liability for failure to supply claims as of March 31, 2009 based on notices we received from our customers, the actual amount of liability from current and additional claims we may face, if asserted and determined to be meritorious, could be much higher and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity position and operating results. See Note 16—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the legal action brought against us by CVS Pharmacy, Inc. Product recall costs had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have incurred significant costs and suffered economic losses as a result of the ongoing recall of our products and voluntary disposal of inventory in connection with the recall of our products (see Note 13— 50 Table of Contents “Accrued Liabilities” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Also, as a result of the recall, production suspension of our products and the disposal of our existing inventory of products required under the consent decree, management established inventory reserves to cover estimated inventory losses for all work-in-process and finished goods related to drug products we manufactured, as well as raw materials for those drug products that had no potential use in products to be manufactured in the future (see Note 9—“Inventories” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Management was required to make judgments about the future benefit of our raw materials. Actual reserve requirements could differ significantly from management’s estimates, which could have a significant unfavorable impact on our future gross margins. Investigations of the calculation of average wholesale prices may adversely affect our business. Many government and third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations (“HMOs”) and managed care organizations (“MCOs”) reimburse doctors and others for the purchase of certain prescription drugs based on a drug’s average wholesale price, or AWP. In the past several years, state and federal government agencies have conducted ongoing investigations of manufacturers’ reporting practices with respect to AWP, in which they have asserted that reporting of inflated AWPs have led to excessive payments for prescription drugs. The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement and rebates and other governmental programs are complex. We and other pharmaceutical companies are defendants in a number of suits filed by state attorneys general and have been notified of an investigation by the United States Department of Justice with respect to Medicaid reimbursement and rebates. (See Note 16—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.) While we cannot predict the outcome of the investigation, possible remedies that the U.S. government could seek include treble damages, civil monetary penalties, debarment from contracting with the government and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In connection with such an investigation, the U.S. government may also seek a Corporate Integrity Agreement (administered by the Office of Inspector General of Health and Human Services) with us which could include ongoing compliance and reporting obligations. Because our processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve, and will continue to involve, subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. In addition, they are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in material changes. Further, effective October 1, 2007, the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (“CMS”) adopted new rules for Average Manufacturer’s Price (“AMP”) based on the provisions of the DRA. While the matter remains subject to litigation and proposed legislation, one potential significant change as a result of the DRA is that AMP would need to be disclosed to the public. AMP was historically kept confidential by the government and participants in the Medicaid program. Disclosing AMP to competitors, customers, and the public at large could negatively affect our leverage in commercial price negotiations. In addition, as also disclosed herein, a number of state and federal government agencies are conducting investigations of manufacturers’ reporting practices with respect to AWPs in which they have suggested that reporting of inflated AWP has led to excessive payments for prescription drugs. We and numerous other pharmaceutical companies have been named as defendants in various actions relating to pharmaceutical pricing issues and whether allegedly improper actions by pharmaceutical manufacturers led to excessive payments by Medicare and/or Medicaid. Any governmental agencies that have commenced, or may commence, an investigation of our company could impose, based on a claim of violation of fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, debarment from contracting with the government and possible exclusion from federal health care programs including Medicare and/or Medicaid. Some of the applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. Furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments—and even in the absence of any such ambiguity—a governmental 51 Table of Contents authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, and may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions. Any such penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Based on our evaluation of internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2009, we have determined that certain material weaknesses as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), existed at our company. Specifically, we have determined that we had six material weaknesses in our control environment or entity-level controls, seven material weaknesses surrounding financial statement preparation and review procedures, and five material weaknesses related to our application of accounting controls. Management is in the process of implementing steps to remediate these material weaknesses. However, we cannot provide assurances that such remediation will be effective. See Item 9A—“Controls and Procedures” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. In addition, solely as a result of the material weaknesses, we have determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of March 31, 2009. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. 52 Table of Contents We believe we are not in compliance with one or more of the requirements of an outstanding mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. In March 2006, as previously disclosed, we entered into a $43.0 million mortgage loan arrangement, of which approximately $35.5 million remains outstanding as of February 28, 2010. We are current in all our financial payment obligations under the mortgage loan arrangement. However, we believe that we are not currently in compliance with one or more of the requirements of the mortgage loan documentation. Accordingly, the $37.4 million that remained outstanding under the mortgage arrangement as of March 31, 2009 was classified as a current liability as of March 31, 2009. Failure by us to remedy such noncompliance or to otherwise receive a waiver from the lender for such noncompliance could result in, among other things, our outstanding obligations with respect to the mortgage loan accelerating and immediately becoming due and payable, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and cash flows. Pursuant to the indenture governing our convertible notes, our default in the payment of other indebtedness or any final non-appealable judgments could result in our convertible notes becoming immediately due and payable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. In May 2003, we issued $200.0 million principal amount of 2.5% Contingent Convertible Subordinated Notes which mature in 2033 (the “Notes”). We are current in all our financial payment obligations under the indenture governing the Notes. However, a failure by us or any of our subsidiaries to pay any indebtedness or any final non-appealable judgments in excess of $750,000 constitutes an event of default under the indenture. An event of default would permit the trustee under the indenture or the holders of at least 25% of the Notes to declare all amounts owing to be immediately due and payable and exercise other remedies, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and cash flows, as well as our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, if an event of default under the indenture were to be triggered and the Notes repaid, we would recognize cancellation of indebtedness income. Such cancellation of indebtedness income would result in a tax liability to the extent not reduced by our tax attributes. Increased indebtedness may impact our financial condition and results of operations. At March 31, 2009 and February 28, 2010, we had $238.5 million and $236.2 million, respectively, of outstanding debt, consisting of $200.0 million principal amount of Notes, the remaining principal balance of a $43.0 million mortgage loan and the remaining amount owed on $2.0 million of installment payment agreements. Our level of indebtedness may have several important effects on our future operations, including: • we will be required to use a portion of our cash flow from operations or otherwise for the payment of any principal or interest due on our outstanding indebtedness; • our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase the impact of negative changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as competitive pressures and increases in interest rates; and • the level of our outstanding debt and the impact it has on our ability to meet debt covenants may affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes. Even after we are able to resume manufacturing and shipment of our products, general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control, may affect our future performance. As a result, our business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above historic levels. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may, among other things: • seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; • sell selected assets; 53 Table of Contents • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or • reduce or delay planned research and development expenditures. These measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. Holders of the Notes may require us to offer to repurchase their Notes for cash upon the occurrence of a change in control or on May 16, 2013, 2018, 2023 and 2028. The source of funds for any repurchase required as a result of any such events will be our available cash or cash generated from operating activities or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets, sales of equity or funds provided by a new controlling entity. The use of available cash to fund the repurchase of the Notes may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. Our cost-reducing measures could yield unintended consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As previously disclosed, we implemented significant cost savings measures to mitigate the financial impact of our actions to recall all of the products we manufactured and to suspend manufacturing and shipment of our products pending compliance with the terms of the consent decree. These measures included a substantial reduction of our workforce, which commenced on February 5, 2009, and an ongoing realignment of our cost structure. We realigned and restructured the sales force for our Ther-Rx subsidiary, and our production workforce. As a result, we reduced our employee headcount from approximately 1,700 on December 31, 2008 to approximately 610 on March 31, 2009. The cost-reducing measures taken by us could yield unintended consequences, such as distraction of our management and employees, the inability to retain and attract new employees, business disruption, a negative impact on morale among remaining employees, attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce and reduced employee productivity, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our reductions in personnel may subject us to risks of litigation, which could result in substantial cost. We cannot guarantee that the cost reduction measures, or other measures we may take in the future, will result in the expected cost savings, or that any cost savings will be unaccompanied by these or other unintended consequences. Our future growth will largely depend upon our ability to fund and develop new products. We need to continue to develop and commercialize new brand name products and generic products utilizing our proprietary drug delivery systems to grow our business in the future. To do this we will need to identify, develop and commercialize technologically enhanced branded products and drugs that are off-patent or where we can challenge the patents and that can be produced and sold by us as generic products using our drug delivery technologies. If we are unable to identify, develop and commercialize new products, we may need to obtain licenses to additional rights to branded or generic products, assuming they would be available for licensing, which could decrease our profitability. We may not be successful in pursuing this strategy. Our ability to develop new products is currently limited until we are able to meet the requirements of the consent decree and demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction our compliance with the FDA’s cGMP regulations. As it relates to new drugs, the consent decree permits us to manufacture drugs for non-clinical laboratory studies or other research and testing that do not involve exposure of human research subjects or bioequivalence testing. Although this restriction precludes us from testing in humans any drugs under development that are made in our facilities, prior to entering into the consent decree we had filed ANDAs with the FDA seeking permission to market generic versions of several branded products, including varying strengths of the following: • Metadate CD® (methylphenidate hydrochloride) Extended-Release Capsules • Ritalin LA® (methylphenidate hydrochloride) Extended-Release Capsules • Focalin XR® (dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride) Extended-Release Capsules 54 Table of Contents With respect to each of these ANDA submissions, we have sought favorable court rulings in patent infringement actions filed against us by the sponsors of the branded products. See Item 1—“Business—(d) Narrative Description Of Business—Government Regulation—New Product Development and Approval—The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding patent certifications and litigation. Although we believe we have meritorious defenses to the infringement claims asserted against us in each of these lawsuits, we cannot be certain of the outcome, and a decision that a relevant patent is valid and infringed likely would significantly delay our ability to market any of these drugs. In addition, the litigation process itself can impose significant delays and expenses. Further, although the consent decree does not specifically address these ANDA submissions, we anticipate that final approval of any of these ANDAs will not occur before the FDA has determined that we are compliant with cGMP regulations. See Note 16—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On March 1, 2010, we entered into a Settlement Agreement to settle the patent infringement actions with respect to Ritalin LA® and Focalin XR®. See Note 16—“Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation and Governmental Inquiries” and Note 26—“Subsequent Events” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the settlement. Our acquisition strategy may not be successful. Although our ability to fund an acquisition is currently limited by the consent decree and lack of available funding, we intend to continue in the future to pursue our efforts to acquire pharmaceutical products, novel drug delivery technologies and/or companies that fit into our research, manufacturing, distribution or sales and marketing operations or that could provide us with additional products, technologies or sales and marketing capabilities. We may not be able to successfully identify, evaluate and acquire any such products, technologies or companies or, if acquired, we may not be able to successfully integrate such acquisitions into our business. We compete with many specialty and other types of pharmaceutical companies for products and product line acquisitions. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and managerial resources than we have. We depend on our patents and other proprietary rights and cannot be certain of their confidentiality and protection. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products, to defend our intellectual property rights and to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. Although the pharmaceutical industry is crowded, we have been issued a substantial number of patents in the U.S. and in many foreign countries, which cover certain of our technologies, and have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products. The patent position of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and frequently involves complex legal and factual questions. As a result, the breadth of claims allowed in patents relating to pharmaceutical applications or their validity and enforceability cannot accurately be predicted. Patents are examined for patentability at patent offices against bodies of prior art which by their nature may be incomplete and imperfectly categorized. Therefore, even presuming that the patent examiner has been able to identify and cite the best prior art available to him during the examination process, any patent issued to us could later be found by a court or a patent office during post-issuance proceedings to be invalid in view of newly-discovered prior art or already considered prior art or other legal reasons. Furthermore, there are categories of “secret” prior art unavailable to any examiner, such as the prior inventive activities of others, which could form the basis for invalidating any patent. In addition, there are other reasons why a patent may be found to be invalid, such as an offer for sale or public use of the patented invention in the U.S. more than one year before the filing date of the patent application. Moreover, a patent may be deemed unenforceable if, for example, the inventor or the inventor’s agents failed to disclose prior art to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the “USPTO”) that they knew was material to patentability. The coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly altered during the examination process either in the U.S. or abroad. Consequently, our pending or future patent applications may not result in the 55 Table of Contents issuance of patents or may result in issued patents having claims significantly different from that of the patent application as originally filed. Patents issued to us may be subjected to further proceedings limiting their scope and may not provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage. Our patents also may be challenged, circumvented, invalidated or deemed unenforceable. Patent applications in the U.S. filed prior to November 29, 2000 are currently maintained in secrecy until and unless patents issue, and patent applications in certain other countries generally are not published until more than 18 months after they are first filed (which generally is the case in the U.S. for applications filed on or after November 29, 2000). In addition, publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. As a result, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors will be entitled to any rights in purported inventions claimed in pending or future patent applications or that we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications on such inventions. Furthermore, patents already issued to us or our pending applications may become subject to dispute, and any dispute could be resolved against us. For example, we may become involved in re-examination, reissue or interference proceedings in the USPTO, or opposition proceedings in a foreign country. The result of these proceedings can be the invalidation or substantial narrowing of our patent claims. We also could be subject to court proceedings that could find our patents invalid or unenforceable or could substantially narrow the scope of our patent claims. Even where we ultimately prevail before the USPTO or in litigation, the expense of these proceedings can be considerable. In addition, statutory differences in patentable subject matter may limit the protection we can obtain on some of our inventions outside of the U.S. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable in many countries outside of the U.S. These and other issues may prevent us from obtaining patent protection outside of the U.S. Furthermore, once patented in foreign countries, the inventions may be subjected to mandatory working requirements and/or subject to compulsory licensing regulations. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached by the other parties to these agreements. We may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of our confidentiality agreements and there can be no assurance that any such disputes would be resolved in our favor. In addition, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may become known or be independently developed by our competitors, or patents may not be issued with respect to products or methods arising from our research, and we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to those products or methods. Furthermore, certain unpatented technology may be subject to intervening rights. We depend on our trademarks and related rights. To protect our trademarks and associated goodwill, domain name, and related rights, we generally rely on federal and state trademark and unfair competition laws, which are subject to change. Some, but not all, of our trademarks are registered in the jurisdictions where they are used. Some of our other trademarks are the subject of pending applications in the jurisdictions where they are used or intended to be used, and others are not. It is possible that third parties may own or could acquire rights in trademarks or domain names in the U.S. or abroad that are confusingly similar to or otherwise compete unfairly with our marks and domain names, or that our use of trademarks or domain names may infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. The use of similar marks or domain names by third parties could decrease the value of our trademarks or domain names and hurt our business, for which there may be no adequate remedy. Third parties may claim that we infringe on their proprietary rights, or seek to circumvent ours. We have been sued for, and may in the future be required to defend against charges of infringement of patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights of third parties. We are involved in defending various patent 56 Table of Contents lawsuits resulting from ANDA filings by ETHEX and in an effort by a third-party company to invalidate certain of our patents. See Note 16—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This defense could require us to incur substantial expense and to divert significant effort of our technical and management personnel, and could result in our loss of rights to develop or make certain products or require us to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. More generally, the outcome of intellectual property litigation and disputes is uncertain and presents a risk to our business. If an intellectual property dispute is settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing, using, selling and/or importing into the U.S. certain of our products, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Litigation also may be necessary to enforce our patents against others or to protect our know-how or trade secrets. That litigation could result in substantial expense or put our proprietary rights at risk of loss, and we cannot assure you that any litigation will be resolved in our favor. As noted above, certain patent infringement lawsuits are currently pending against us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our dependence on key executives and qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel could affect the development and management of our business. We are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development and management of our business. Although we do not believe the loss of one individual would materially harm our business, our business might be harmed by the loss of services of multiple existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner. Much of the know-how we have developed resides in our scientific and technical personnel and is not readily transferable to other personnel. While we have employment agreements with certain of our key executives, we do not ordinarily enter into employment agreements (other than agreements related to confidentiality and proprietary rights) with our other scientific, technical and managerial employees. We may be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the concentration of our customer base. Our principal customers are wholesale drug distributors, major retail drug store chains, independent pharmacies and mail order firms. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drug store chains has decreased. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, our three largest customers, which are wholesale distributors, accounted for 26.9%, 26.5% and 10.4% of our gross sales, respectively. The loss of any of these customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 57 Table of Contents The use of legal, regulatory and legislative strategies by competitors, as well as the impact of proposed legislation, may increase our costs associated with the introduction or marketing of our generic products, could delay or prevent such introduction and/or could significantly reduce our profit potential. Our competitors, both branded and generic, often pursue strategies to prevent or delay competition from generic alternatives to branded products. These strategies include, but are not limited to: • entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will begin to market an authorized generic, a generic equivalent of a branded product, at the same time generic competition initially enters the market; • filing citizen’s petitions with the FDA or other regulatory bodies, including timing the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing delays of our product approvals; • seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate bioequivalence; • initiating legislative efforts to limit the substitution of generic versions of branded pharmaceuticals; • filing suits for patent infringement that may delay regulatory approval of many generic products; • introducing “next-generation” products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product, which often materially reduces the demand for the first generic product for which we seek regulatory approval; • obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of branded drugs in pediatric populations or by other potential methods; • persuading regulatory bodies to withdraw the approval of branded drugs for which the patents are about to expire, thus allowing the manufacturer of the branded product to obtain new patented products serving as substitutes for the products withdrawn; and • seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire. In the United States, some companies have lobbied Congress for amendments to the Hatch-Waxman Act that would give them additional advantages over generic competitors. For example, although the term of a company’s drug patent can be extended to reflect a portion of the time an NDA is under regulatory review, some companies have proposed extending the patent term by a full year for each year spent in clinical trials rather than the one-half year that is currently permitted. If proposals like these in the United States were to become effective, our entry into the market and our ability to generate revenues associated with new products may be delayed, reduced or eliminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. One of the key incentives for a manufacturer of generic products to challenge the patents associated with the reference listed drug is the possibility of obtaining a 180-day period of exclusivity, during which no other generic version of the same product may be marketed. See Item 1—“Business—(d) Narrative Description Of Business—Government Regulation—New Product Development and Approval” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As discussed elsewhere, we believe that we have the first-filed Paragraph IV ANDA for a number of products, and are currently engaged in patent infringement litigation with regard to those products. We may not ultimately prevail in such litigation, and if we do not, it likely would significantly delay the approval and subsequent marketing of the subject product. Additionally, even if we prevail in the litigation, we may not receive final FDA approval of our ANDAs, and if approved, we may not be granted 180-day exclusivity. 58 Table of Contents Commercialization of a generic product prior to final resolution of patent infringement litigation could expose us to significant damages if the outcome of the litigation is unfavorable and could impair our reputation. We could invest a significant amount of time and expense in the development of our generic products only to be subject to significant additional delay and changes in the economic prospects for our products. If we receive FDA approval for our pending ANDAs, we may consider commercializing the product prior to the final resolution of any related patent infringement litigation. The risk involved in marketing a product prior to the final resolution of the litigation may be substantial because the remedies available to the patent holder could include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by such patent holder and not by the profits earned by us. A patent holder may also recover damages caused by the erosion of prices for its patented drug as a result of the introduction of our generic drug in the marketplace. Further, in the case of a willful infringement, which requires a complex analysis of the totality of the circumstances, such damages may be trebled. However, in order to realize the economic benefits of some of our products, we may decide to risk an amount that may exceed the profit we anticipate making on our product. There are a number of factors we would need to consider in order to decide whether to launch our product prior to final resolution, including among other things (1) outside legal advice, (2) the status of a pending lawsuit, (3) interim court decisions, (4) status and timing of a trial, (5) legal decisions affecting other competitors for the same product, (6) market factors, (7) liability-sharing agreements, (8) internal capacity issues, (9) expiration dates of patents, (10) strength of lower court decisions and (11) potential triggering or forfeiture of exclusivity. An adverse determination in the litigation relating to a product we launch prior to final resolution of patent infringement litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We depend on licenses from others, and any loss of these licenses could harm our business, market share and profitability. We have acquired the rights to manufacture, use and/or market certain products through license agreements. We also expect to continue to obtain licenses for other products and technologies in the future. Our license agreements generally require us to develop the markets for the licensed products. If we do not develop these markets, the licensors may be entitled to terminate these license agreements. We cannot be certain that we will fulfill all of our obligations under any particular license agreement for any variety of reasons, including lack of sufficient liquidity to fund our obligations, insufficient resources to adequately develop and market a product, lack of market development despite our efforts and lack of product acceptance. Our failure to fulfill our obligations could result in the loss of our rights under a license agreement. Certain products we have the right to license are at certain stages of clinical tests and FDA approval. Failure of any licensed product to receive regulatory approval could result in the loss of our rights under its license agreement. We expend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts that may not lead to successful product introductions. We conduct research and development primarily to enable us to manufacture and market FDA-approved pharmaceuticals in accordance with FDA regulations. Typically, research costs related to the development of innovative compounds and the filing of NDAs are significantly greater than those expenses associated with ANDA filings. Because of the inherent risk associated with research and development efforts in our industry, particularly with respect to new drugs, our research and development expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of FDA-approved new pharmaceutical products. Also, after we submit an application for approval, the FDA may request that we conduct additional studies and as a result, we may be unable to reasonably determine the total research and development costs to develop a particular product. Finally, we cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered, even if we are successful in 59 Table of Contents commercialization. In addition, as set forth in the risk factor entitled “Our future growth will largely depend upon our ability to fund and develop new products” above, although the consent decree does not specifically address these ANDA submissions, we anticipate that final approval of any ANDAs will not occur before the FDA has determined that we are compliant with cGMP, and we cannot assure that the FDA will make such a determination. We may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of our products under development, and delays in receipt or failure to receive such clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that we expend significant resources on research and development efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new products as a result of those efforts, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Any significant interruption in the supply of raw materials or finished product could have a material adverse effect on our business. We typically purchase the active pharmaceutical ingredient (i.e., the chemical compounds that produce the desired therapeutic effect in our products) and other materials and supplies that we use in our manufacturing operations, as well as certain finished products (including Evamist™), from many different domestic and foreign suppliers. We also maintain safety stocks in our raw materials inventory, and in certain cases where we have listed only one supplier in our applications with the FDA, have received FDA approval to use alternative suppliers should the need arise. However, there is no guarantee that we will always have timely and sufficient access to a critical raw material or finished product, or access to such materials or products on commercially reasonable terms. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced raw material, including the active ingredient, or finished product could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows to be materially adversely affected. In addition, our manufacturing capabilities could be impacted by quality deficiencies in the products which our suppliers provide, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We utilize controlled substances in certain of our current products and products in development and therefore must meet the requirements of the CSA and the related regulations administered by the DEA. These regulations relate to the manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use of controlled substances. The DEA limits the availability of the active ingredients used in certain of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. We must annually apply to the DEA for procurement quota in order to obtain these substances. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches, or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our revenues, gross profit and operating results may fluctuate from period to period, depending upon our product sales mix, our product pricing, and our costs to manufacture or purchase products. Assuming we are able to comply with the requirements under the consent decree and resume the manufacture and distribution of our approved products, our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will depend to a significant extent upon our branded and generic/non-branded product sales mix (the proportion of total sales between branded products and generic/non-branded products). Our sales of branded products typically generate higher gross margins than our sales of generic/non-branded products. In addition, the introduction of new generic products at any given time can involve significant initial quantities being purchased by our wholesaler customers, as they supply initial quantities to pharmacies and purchase product for their own wholesaler inventories. As a result, our sales mix will significantly impact our gross profit from period to period. 60 Table of Contents During fiscal year 2009, sales of our branded products and generic/non-branded products accounted for 36.7% and 63.1%, respectively, of our net revenues. During the same period, branded products and generic/non-branded products generated gross margins of 86.1% and 44.2%, respectively. Factors that may cause our sales mix to vary include: • the number and timing of new product introductions; • marketing exclusivity on products, if any, which may be obtained; • the level of competition in the marketplace with respect to certain products; • the availability of raw materials and finished products from our suppliers; • the buying patterns of our three largest wholesaler customers; • the scope and outcome of governmental regulatory action that may involve us; • periodic dependence on a relatively small number of products for a significant portion of net revenue or income; and • legal actions brought by our competitors. The profitability of our product sales is also dependent upon the prices we are able to charge for our products, the costs to purchase products from third parties, and our ability to manufacture our products in a cost-effective manner. If our revenues and gross profit decline or do not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses. Rising insurance costs could negatively impact profitability. The cost of insurance, including workers’ compensation, product liability and general liability insurance, has risen significantly in the past few years and is expected to continue to increase. In response, we may increase deductibles and/or decrease certain coverages to mitigate these costs. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverages, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may incur charges for impairment of intangible and other long-lived assets. When we acquire the rights to manufacture and sell a product, we record the aggregate purchase price, along with the value of the product-related liabilities we assume, as intangible assets. We use the assistance of valuation experts to help us allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the various intangible assets we have acquired. Then, we must estimate the economic useful life of each of these intangible assets in order to amortize their cost as an expense in our consolidated statements of income over the estimated economic useful life of the related asset. The factors that affect the actual economic useful life of a pharmaceutical product are inherently uncertain, and include patent protection, physician loyalty and prescribing patterns, competition by products prescribed for similar indications, future introductions of competing products not yet FDA-approved and the impact of promotional efforts, among many others. We consider all of these factors in initially estimating the economic useful lives of our products, and we also continuously monitor these factors for indications of decline in carrying value. In assessing the recoverability of our intangible and other long-lived assets, we must make assumptions regarding estimated undiscounted future cash flows and other factors. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows do not exceed the carrying value of the intangible or other long-lived assets being evaluated we must determine the fair value of the intangible or other long-lived assets. If the fair value of these assets is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss will be recognized in an amount equal to the difference. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets. We review intangible assets for impairment at least annually and all long-lived and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If we determine that an intangible or long-lived asset is impaired, a non-cash impairment charge would be recognized. 61 Table of Contents Because circumstances can change, the value of intangible and long-lived assets we record may not be realized by us. If we determine that impairment has occurred, we would be required to write-off the impaired portion of the unamortized assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. In addition, in the event of a sale of any of our assets, we might not recover our recorded value of the associated assets. In connection with the steps taken by us with respect to the nationwide recall and suspension of shipment of all products manufactured by us, the requirements under the consent decree and the ongoing private litigation and governmental inquiries, we completed an evaluation of each of our intangible assets, and as a result of these evaluations, recognized certain impairment charges. See Note 11—“Intangible Assets and Goodwill” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information on the impairment charges recorded by us during fiscal year 2009. There are inherent uncertainties involved in the estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of our financial statements, and any changes in those estimates, judgments and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The consolidated financial statements that we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. A summary of our significant accounting practices is included as Note 2—“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The most significant estimates we are required to make under GAAP include, but are not limited to, those related to revenue recognition and reductions to gross revenues, inventory valuation, intangible assets, property and equipment, stock-based compensation, income taxes and loss contingencies related to legal proceedings. We periodically evaluate estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for reasonableness, including estimates provided by third parties. Appropriate adjustments to the estimates will be made prospectively, as necessary, based on such periodic evaluations. We base our estimates on, among other things, currently available information, market conditions, historical experience and various assumptions, which together form the basis of making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Although we believe that our assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, estimates would differ if different assumptions were utilized and these estimates may prove in the future to have been inaccurate. Legislative proposals, reimbursement policies of third parties, cost-containment measures and health care reform could affect the marketing, pricing and demand for our products. Various legislative proposals, including proposals relating to prescription drug benefits, could materially impact the pricing and sale of our products. Further, reimbursement policies of third parties may affect the marketing of our products. Our ability to market our products will depend in part on reimbursement levels for the cost of the products and related treatment established by health care providers, including government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs and MCOs. Insurance companies, HMOs, MCOs, Medicaid and Medicare administrators and others regularly challenge the pricing of pharmaceutical products and review their reimbursement practices. In addition, the following factors could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, which could result in lower prices and a reduced demand for our products: • the trend toward managed health care in the U.S.; • the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs; • legislative proposals to reform health care and government insurance programs; and • price controls and non-reimbursement of new and highly priced medicines for which the economic therapeutic rationales are not established. 62 Table of Contents These cost-containment measures and health care reform proposals could affect our ability to sell our products. Recently, President Obama and members of Congress have proposed significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system, and both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have conducted hearings about U.S. healthcare reform. The Obama administration’s fiscal year 2010 budget included proposals to reduce Medicare and Medicaid spending and reduce drug spending. In addition, members of Congress have proposed a single-payer healthcare system, a government health insurance option to compete with private plans and other expanded public healthcare measures. We are unable to predict the ultimate content or timing of any future healthcare reform legislation and its impact on us. If significant reforms to the healthcare system in the United States are implemented, those reforms may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The reimbursement status of a newly approved pharmaceutical product may be uncertain. Reimbursement policies may not include some of our products or government agencies or third parties may assert that certain of our products are not eligible for Medicaid, Medicare or other reimbursement and were not so eligible in the past, possibly resulting in demands for damages or refunds. Even if reimbursement policies of third parties grant reimbursement status for a product, we cannot be sure that these reimbursement policies will remain in effect. Limits on reimbursement could reduce the demand for our products. The unavailability or inadequacy of third-party reimbursement for our products could reduce or possibly eliminate demand for our products. We are unable to predict whether governmental authorities will enact additional legislation or regulation which will affect third-party coverage and reimbursement that reduces demand for our products. Our ability to market generic pharmaceutical products successfully depends, in part, on the acceptance of the products by independent third parties, including pharmacies, government formularies and other retailers, as well as patients. In the past, we have manufactured, and assuming we comply with the requirements under the consent decree we anticipate that in the future we will again manufacture, a number of prescription drugs that are used by patients with severe health conditions. Although the brand-name products generally have been marketed safely for many years prior to our introduction of a generic/non-branded alternative, there is a possibility that one of these products could produce a side effect that could result in an adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptance by managed care providers, pharmacies and other retailers, customers and patients. If these independent third parties do not accept our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our industry and our business, especially our product development, manufacturing and distribution capabilities. All pharmaceutical companies, including us, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA and, to a lesser extent, the DEA and state government agencies. The FDCA, the CSA and other federal statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, injunctions or holds, recall or seizure of products and total or partial suspension of production, as well as other regulatory actions against our products and us. In addition to compliance with cGMP requirements, drug manufacturers must register each manufacturing facility with the FDA. Manufacturers and distributors of prescription drug products are also required to be registered in the states where they are located and in certain states that require registration by out-of-state manufacturers and distributors. Manufacturers also must be registered with the DEA and similar applicable state and local regulatory authorities if they handle controlled substances, and with the EPA and similar state and local regulatory authorities if they generate toxic or dangerous wastes, and must also comply with other applicable DEA and EPA requirements. From time to time, governmental agencies have conducted investigations of pharmaceutical companies relating to the distribution and sale of drug products to government purchasers or subject to government or third- 63 Table of Contents party reimbursement. However, standards sought to be applied in the course of governmental investigations can be complex and may not be consistent with standards previously applied to our industry generally or previously understood by us to be applicable to our activities. The process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming and costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental or third-party approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping many of our products. Consequently, we cannot predict whether we will obtain FDA or other necessary approvals or whether the rate, timing and cost of such approvals will adversely affect our product introduction plans or results of operations. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Several types of state and federal laws, including anti-kickback and false claims statutes, have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. See Item 1—“Business—(d) Narrative Description Of Business—Government Regulation—Anti-Kickback and False Claims Statutes” for more information. We endeavor to comply with the applicable fraud and abuse laws and to operate within related statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution. However, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration to individuals or entities in a position to prescribe, purchase, or recommend our products may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by civil and/or criminal sanctions, including substantial fines and civil monetary penalties, debarment from contracting with the government, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal and state health care programs, including Medicaid, Medicare and Veterans Administration health programs. Furthermore, the laws applicable to us are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretations and permit governmental authorities to exercise significant discretion. Any determination by a governmental authority that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business operations and financial results. The market price of our securities has been and may continue to be volatile. The market prices of securities of companies engaged in pharmaceutical development and marketing activities historically have been highly volatile and the market price of our common stock has significantly declined. In addition, any or all of the following may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: our ability to continue as a going concern; developments regarding our compliance with the consent decree and returning certain or many of our products to market, including loss of market share as a result of the suspension of shipments, and related costs; developments regarding our ability to raise additional capital; developments regarding private litigation and governmental inquiries; our reporting of prices used by government agencies or third parties in setting reimbursement rates; the introduction by other companies of generic or competing products; the eligibility of our products for Medicaid, Medicare or other reimbursement; announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial products; delays in the development or approval of products; regulatory withdrawals of our products from the market; developments or disputes concerning patent or other proprietary rights; publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products marketed by us or products under development; regulatory developments in both the U.S. and foreign countries; publicity regarding actual or potential acquisitions; public concern as to the safety of our drug technologies or products; financial condition and results which are different from securities analysts’ forecasts; economic and other external factors; and period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. 64 Table of Contents Future sales of common stock could adversely affect the market price of our Class A or Class B Common Stock. As of February 28, 2010, an aggregate of 4,053,366 shares of our Class A Common Stock and 27,500 shares of our Class B Common Stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options under our stock option plans, and an additional 1,844,717 shares of our Class A Common Stock and 1,309,050 shares of Class B Common Stock were reserved for the issuance of additional options and shares under these plans. In addition, as of February 28, 2010, 8,691,880 shares of Class A Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of $200.0 million principal amount of Notes, and 337,500 shares of our Class A Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of our outstanding 7% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. Future sales of our common stock and instruments convertible or exchangeable into our common stock and transactions involving equity derivatives relating to our common stock, or the perception that such sales or transactions could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This could, in turn, have an adverse effect on the trading price of the Notes resulting from, among other things, a delay in the ability of holders to convert their Notes into our Class A Common Stock. As a result of owning a large percentage of our Class B Common Stock, certain principal shareholders have control over matters requiring shareholder approval and such shareholders could approve certain proposals that may not be consistent with our other shareholders’ objectives or desires and could prevent or delay certain types of corporate transactions, such as a change of control, even if such corporate transactions might be beneficial to our other shareholders. Our authorized capital stock consists of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Each share of Class A Common Stock is entitled to one-twentieth of one vote and each share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to one vote. Marc S. Hermelin, the son of our founder and our former chief executive officer and former chairman of the Board, beneficially owns, either individually or through certain trusts of which he is one of the trustees, approximately 2.8 million shares of Class A Common Stock and approximately 6.3 million shares of Class B Common Stock, corresponding to approximately 46.0% of the aggregate voting power of our two classes of common stock outstanding as of January 31, 2010. In addition, David S. Hermelin, Mr. M. Hermelin’s son and our former vice president of corporate strategy and operations analysis, separately beneficially owns, either individually or through certain trusts of which he is one of the trustees, approximately 1.5 million shares of Class A Common Stock and approximately 2.2 million shares of Class B Common Stock, corresponding to approximately 16.2% of the aggregate voting power of our two classes of common stock outstanding as of January 31, 2010. Mr. M. Hermelin and Mr. D. Hermelin are members of our Board. Accordingly, these principal shareholders are able to control the outcome of all actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws, and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Depending upon the matters being presented to shareholders, the interests of the principal shareholders may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders and the principal shareholders may support proposals or actions with which you may disagree and which may not be consistent with your objectives or desires. The concentration of outstanding votes in the principal shareholders makes it unlikely that any other shareholder will be able to affect our management or strategic direction and may also prevent or delay a change in our management or voting control, our acquisition by a third party, or another similar transaction, even if such transaction is in our best interest or the best interest of our other shareholders. This concentrated control is also likely to discourage third parties from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change-of-control transaction that is not supported by the principal shareholders and that may otherwise be beneficial to us or our other shareholders. In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation does not provide for a staggered, or classified, Board and does not prohibit shareholder action by written consent. As a result, a shareholder controlling a majority of the aggregate voting power of our two classes of common stock can replace some or all members of the Board at any time, subject to compliance with the federal securities laws, the regulations of the SEC and our By-Laws. 65 Table of Contents Our By-Laws require the unanimous approval by the members of the Board of certain acts or resolutions of the Board, which could limit our ability to issue equity securities or raise capital. Section 13 of Article III of our By-Laws provides that the following acts or resolutions of the Board or any committee of the Board require approval by a unanimous affirmative vote or unanimous written consent of the members of the Board then in office (other than any directors who affirmatively recuse themselves prior to the vote): • the approval of any agreement or contract, or the issuance of any security, which confers stockholder voting rights; • the increase in the number of the members of the Board, in accordance with Section 1 of Article III of the By-Laws, to a number which is in excess of eight (8); and • the approval of any contract, agreement or other document or instrument which contains any provision (1) which imposes a penalty, acceleration of debt, purchase obligation or other adverse effect upon the corporation resulting from the election or appointment of any individual to the Board or the removal of any member of the Board or (2) which restricts, limits or dilutes the right of the stockholders to elect or appoint any individual to the Board or to remove any member of the Board. As a result, our ability to issue equity securities or to enter into agreements that include certain provisions related to a change of control may be limited, which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital and to meet our obligations as they become due. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of common stock in two classes, Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Each share of Class A Common Stock entitles the holder to one-twentieth of one vote on all matters to be voted upon by shareholders, while each share of Class B Common Stock entitles the holder to one full vote on each matter considered by the shareholders. In addition, our Board, with a unanimous vote, has the authority to issue additional shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The existence of two classes of common stock with different voting rights and the ability of our Board to issue additional shares of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our voting stock. Other provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws also may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to our company could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any “interested shareholder” (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. In addition, our senior management is entitled to certain payments upon a change in control and certain of the stock options we have granted provide for the acceleration of vesting in the event of a change in control of our company. Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under Delaware law, our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future inquiries, 66 Table of Contents investigations and litigation (see Note 16—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). In connection with some of these pending matters, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses to several of our current and former directors, officers and associates and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. Certain of these obligations may not be “covered matters” under our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. Further, in the event the directors, officers and associates are ultimately determined to not be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover the amounts we previously advanced to them. In addition, we have incurred significant expenses in connection with the pending inquiries, investigations and litigation. We maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance for non-indemnifiable securities claims and have met the retention limits under these policies. We cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. Due to these insurance coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification and other obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not meet the New York Stock Exchange continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted. In order to maintain our listing on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), we must continue to meet the NYSE minimum share price listing rule, the minimum market capitalization rule and other continued listing criteria. If our common stock were delisted, it could (i) reduce the liquidity and market price of our common stock; (ii) negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing and access the public capital markets; and (iii) materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Current global economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, financial position and results of operations. The global economy is currently undergoing a period of unprecedented volatility, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. This has led, and could further lead, to reduced consumer spending in the foreseeable future, and this may include spending on healthcare. While generic drugs present an attractive alternative to higher-priced branded products, our sales could be negatively impacted if patients forego obtaining healthcare. In addition, reduced consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices. These conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, financial position and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments On February 9, 2009, we received a comment letter from the Staff of the Division of Corporate Finance of the SEC with respect to its review of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, as amended, our Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed July 29, 2008, and the June 2008 Form 10-Q. We responded to the letter, and on July 17, 2009, received a response letter from the SEC, to which we also responded. While many of the Staff’s comments have been resolved, we have two unresolved Staff comments, which will remain open until the Staff has had an opportunity to review the amendment to the June 2008 Form 10-Q and the September 2008 Form 10-Q when filed by us. As disclosed in the “Explanatory Note” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the amendment to the June 2008 Form 10-Q as well as the September 2008 Form 10-Q were filed on the same day as this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 67 Table of Contents 