Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our Class A and B Common Stock and debt securities involves substantial risk. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or viability. These risk factors may not include all of the important risks that could affect our business or our industry, that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results, or that could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Because of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be considered an indication of future performance. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements filed in this Report were prepared using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America applicable to a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. The historical consolidated financial statements included in this Report do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. The report of our independent registered public accountants BDO USA, LLP, included in this Report, includes an explanatory paragraph related to our ability to continue as a going concern. The assessment of our ability to continue as a going concern was made by management considering, among other factors: (1) the need to obtain additional capital despite the proceeds from the offering of the 2015 Notes in March 2011, the equity we were able to issue in February 2011, the equity line of credit we put in place in June 2012 from which we have not yet received proceeds (see Note 1—“Description of Business—General Overview” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report) and the sale of assets; (2) previous statements and actions by the FDA to permit continued manufacturing of compounded alternatives to Makena® and by CMS to permit compounded alternatives to Makena® to be reimbursed under the Medicaid program and the resulting actions by State Medicaid agencies which have had an adverse impact on sales of Makena® (3) our ability to comply with debt covenants; (4) our ability to obtain future revenues from the sales of Makena® sufficient to meet our future needs and expectations, including our ability to satisfy the $95.0 million of remaining milestone payments to Hologic beginning August 4, 2012; (5) the timing and number of approved products that will be reintroduced to the market and the related costs; (6) the suspension of shipment of all products manufactured by us and the requirements under the consent decree with the FDA; and (7) the outcome and potential outcome with respect to the governmental inquiries, litigation or other matters described in Note 15—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. Our assessment was further affected by our fiscal year 2012 net loss of $102.3 million, which includes a non-cash gain of $87.6 million related to warrants offset by a non-cash impairment of $31.0 million related to our fixed assets, our net loss of $271.7 million for fiscal year 2011 and the outstanding balance of cash and cash equivalents of $50.7 million as of March 31, 2012. For periods subsequent to March 31, 2012, we expect losses to continue, because we are unable to generate any significant revenues until we are able to generate significant sales of Makena®, which was approved by the FDA in February 2011 and which we began shipping in March 2011 and also begin selling more of our other products. We have continued to ship Evamist®, which is manufactured for the Company by a third party. We are continuing to work with our contract manufacturers to prepare Clindesse® and Gynazole-1® for relaunch and expect to resume shipping these products sometime during fiscal year 2013. In addition, we must meet ongoing operating costs as well as costs related to the steps we are currently taking to increase market share of Makena®. If we are not able to raise additional capital through equity issuances, asset sales or other means, obtain the FDA’s approval to resume distribution of more of our approved products in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, or if revenues from the sale of approved products introduced or reintroduced into the market place, including Makena®, prove to be insufficient, our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity will continue to be materially adversely affected. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Based on current financial projections, we believe the continuation of our Company as a going concern is primarily dependent on our ability to address, among other factors: (1) the need to obtain additional capital; (2) our ability to satisfy the remaining milestone payments to Hologic, which are due beginning August 4, 2012; (3) sales of Makena® (which was approved by the FDA in February 2011) notwithstanding actions by the FDA to permit continued manufacturing of compounded alternatives and by CMS to permit compounded alternatives to be reimbursed under the Medicaid program and the resulting actions by State Medicaid agencies; (4) compliance with our debt covenants; (5) the potential outcome with respect to the governmental inquiries, litigation or other matters described in Note 15—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this 24 Table of Contents Report; (6) the timing, number and revenue generation of approved products that will be introduced or reintroduced to the market and the related costs; and (7) the requirements under the consent decree with the FDA in order to resume shipment of products manufactured for us. While we address these matters, we must continue to meet expected near-term obligations, including normal course operating cash requirements and costs associated with introducing or reintroducing approved products to the market (such as costs related to our employees, facilities and FDA compliance), remaining payments associated with the acquisition and retention of the rights to Makena® (see Note 5—“Acquisition” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report), the financial obligations pursuant to the plea agreement, costs associated with our legal counsel and consultant fees, as well as the significant costs associated with the steps taken by us in connection with the consent decree and the litigation and governmental inquiries. In the near term, if we are not able to raise additional capital, comply with debt covenants, increase sales of Makena®, obtain the FDA’s clearance to resume distribution of more of our approved products in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, and/or if we experience adverse outcomes with respect to any of the governmental inquiries or litigation described in Note 15—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report, our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity will continue to be materially adversely affected. In the near term, we are focused on performing the following: (1) raising additional capital; (2) addressing the FDA’s and the resulting actions by State Medicaid agencies concerns regarding patient access to Makena® and CMS policy permitting Medicaid program reimbursement of compounded products; (3) meeting our obligations under the Hologic agreement, including the remaining milestone payments which are due beginning August 4, 2012; (4) the continued commercial launch of Makena®; (5) meeting the requirements of the consent decree, which will allow certain of our approved products to be reintroduced to the market; and (6) pursuing various means to minimize operating costs. Since December 31, 2010, the Company has generated non-recurring cash proceeds to support its on-going operating and compliance requirements from a $32.3 million private placement of Class A Common Stock to a group of institutional investors in February 2011 and the 2015 Notes in March 2011 (which were used, in part, to repay all existing obligations under the agreement with U.S. Healthcare) (see Note 13—“Long-Term Debt” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report for a description of the 2015 Notes), $60.5 million, including $7.5 million held in escrow, from the divestiture of our generics business. We are pursuing ongoing efforts to increase cash, including the continued implementation of cost savings, the return of certain additional approved products to market in a timely manner, and the sale of assets. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to realize additional cost reductions from reducing our operations, that any of our approved products can be returned to the market in a timely manner, that our higher profit approved products will return to the market in the near term or at all or that we can obtain additional cash through asset sales or the sale of equity or the successful commercialization of Makena®. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to raise additional capital, make significant progress with the FDA and CMS regarding access to and removing restrictions on Medicaid coverage of Makena® in certain states, sell assets, introduce or return our products to market at adequate levels, or prior to August 2012, address the remaining milestone payments due to Hologic we may be required to further reduce our operations, including further reductions of our employee base, or we may be required to restructure our debt and other payment obligations or cease certain or all of our operations in order to offset the lack of available funding. On August 8, 2011 we sold substantially all of the assets of K-V Generic and our generic products business to Zydus Pharmaceuticals for approximately $60 million. In addition, we continue to evaluate the sale of certain of our other assets. However, due to general economic conditions, we will likely be exposed to risks related to the overall macro-economic environment, including a lower rate of return than we have historically experienced on our invested assets and being limited in our ability to sell assets. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that we ultimately will be successful in finding suitable purchasers for the sale of such assets. Even if we are able to find purchasers, we may not be able to obtain attractive terms and conditions for such sales, including attractive pricing. In addition, divestitures of businesses involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management and employee attention, significant costs and expenses, the loss of customer relationships, a decrease in revenues and earnings associated with the divested business, and the disruption of operations in the affected business. In addition, divestitures potentially involve significant post-closing separation activities, which could involve the expenditure of significant financial and employee resources. Inability to consummate identified asset sales or manage the post-separation transition arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our future business success in the next several years, as well as the continuing operation of our Company, depends critically upon our ability to achieve revenues from the sale of Makena® consistent with our business expectations. A failure to achieve these objectives and sufficient market success in selling Makena® will materially adversely affect the success and viability of our Company and would likely result in a default under our debt obligations. On January 16, 2008, the Company entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “Makena® Agreement”) with Cytyc Prenatal Products Corp. and Hologic, Inc. (Cytyc Prenatal Products Corp. and Hologic, Inc. are referred to collectively as “Hologic”), as further described in Note 5—“Acquisition” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. Under our agreement with Hologic, we completed the acquisition of Makena® upon making a $12.5 million payment to Hologic on February 10, 2011. Under our agreement with Hologic, as amended, we made a $12.5 million additional payment on January 17, 2012, and we must make subsequent additional milestone payments and our payment obligations are secured by a lien on our rights to Makena® granted to Hologic. We have certain revenue expectations with respect to both the sale of Makena® as well as the sales of our approved 25 Table of Contents products that are allowed to return to the market by the FDA following successful inspections under the consent decree. If we cannot successfully commercialize Makena®, and achieve those revenue expectations with respect to Makena®, this would result in material adverse impact on our results of operations and liquidity, and ability to continue as a going concern. Moreover, if we fail to pay to Hologic any of the remaining payments when they mature under our agreement, as amended, with Hologic, our rights to the Makena® assets will transfer back to Hologic. As discussed in Note 5—“Acquisition” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report, we modified the Makena® Agreement pursuant to an amendment entered into in January 2010 (“Amendment No. 1”). Pursuant to Amendment No. 1, we made a $70.0 million cash payment to Hologic upon execution of Amendment No. 1. We entered into a second amendment to the Makena® Agreement on February 4, 2011 (“Amendment No. 2”), and have subsequently further amended the agreement. Under the Makena® Agreement, as currently amended (the “Amended Makena® Agreement”), we are required to pay a series of additional future scheduled cash payments in the aggregate amount of $95.0 million upon agreed upon milestones. In addition, for the period beginning on February 4, 2012 and ending on August 4, 2012, royalties on the sales of Makena® shall be accrued but not become payable to Hologic until the earlier to occur of: (1) March 16, 2015; or (2) the occurrence of an event of default under the indenture governing the 2015 Notes. We also may become obligated to pay additional amounts as royalties if we elect to defer certain future milestone payments. (The date on which we make the final cash payment is referred to as the “Final Payment Date.”) If, prior to the Final Payment Date, we fail to make certain payments, we are obligated to transfer back to Hologic ownership of the Purchased Assets (as defined in the Amended Makena® Agreement), including certain improvements made thereto by us, as well as other after-acquired assets and rights used by us in connection with the Makena® business (the “Retransfer”). If the Retransfer were to occur, we would not be reimbursed for the payments we have made up to that point to Hologic under the Amended Makena® Agreement. Our failure to pay any of the remaining payments when required under the Amended Makena® Agreement and the resulting Retransfer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In connection with its approval under subpart H regulations, the FDA granted an orphan drug designation for Makena®. As part of this designation, the Company was granted a seven-year marketing exclusivity period. The sub-part H regulations allow certain drugs for serious conditions to be submitted for FDA marketing approval under the basis of one controlled clinical trial instead of the usual case of two clinical trials. Typically, there is an additional post-marketing commitment to perform a second confirmatory clinical trial. If this trial does not replicate the positive results of the original trial, the FDA can take various actions such as requesting another clinical trial or withdrawing the conditional approval. We cannot be certain of the results of the confirmatory clinical trial (expected in 2016) and what action the FDA may take if the results were not as expected based on the first clinical trial. The success of the Company’s commercialization of Makena® is dependent upon a number of factors, including: (1) our ability to satisfy the remaining $95.0 million of milestone payments owed to Hologic; (2) successfully obtaining agreements for coverage and reimbursement rates on behalf of patients and medical practitioners prescribing Makena® with third-party payors, including government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations (“HMOs”), insurance companies, and Medicaid programs and administrators; (3) the extent to which pharmaceutical compounders continue to produce non-FDA approved purported substitute product; and (4) the Company’s ability to maintain certain net pricing levels and unit sales for Makena®. The Company has been criticized regarding the list pricing of Makena® in numerous news articles and Internet postings. In addition, the Company has received, and may continue to receive, letters criticizing the Company’s list pricing of Makena® from numerous medical practitioners and advocacy groups, including the March of Dimes, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, American Academy of Pediatrics and the Society for Maternal Fetal Medicine. Several of these advocacy groups issued their own press releases regarding their criticism of the pricing of Makena® and endorsed the statements made by the FDA regarding compounded product (discussed below). In addition, the Company is aware that certain doctors have chosen to continue prescribing the non-FDA approved purported substitute product made by pharmaceutical compounders in lieu of even considering prescribing Makena®. Further, the Company received letters from United States Senators and members of the United States Congress asking the Company to reduce its indicated pricing of Makena® and requesting information with respect to Makena®, its pricing and the Company’s cost related to Makena®. One of the Senators also previously sent a letter to CMS asking for CMS’ views on the ramification of the pricing of Makena® on the Medicaid system and, together with another Senator, previously sent a letter to the Federal Trade Commission asking the agency to initiate an investigation of our pricing of Makena®. Staff members of the U.S. Senate Finance Committee advised the Company that federal legislation targeted at the Company’s sale of Makena® may be introduced unless the Company further reduces its price. Communications with members of Congress and their staffs indicate that hearings in Congress on the Company’s pricing of Makena® may occur. The FDA communicated to the Company and also separately issued a press release that, in order to ensure continued access for patients needing hydroxyprogesterone caproate, the FDA intended to refrain at this time from taking enforcement action with respect to compounding pharmacies producing compounded hydroxyprogesterone caproate in response to individual prescriptions for individual patients. The impact of the FDA’s statement on the effectiveness of the Company’s orphan drug marketing exclusivity is at present still unclear but a failure by the FDA to take enforcement action against compounding pharmacies may have resulted in substantial sales of compounded alternatives to Makena® and effective loss of some or all of such marketing exclusivity for the affected period of time. The Company’s representatives met with the FDA staff to discuss access to Makena® and to provide information to the FDA relevant to its public statement. 26 Table of Contents In addition, in March 2011, CMS issued an informational bulletin to state Medicaid programs that they can choose to pay for the extemporaneously compounded hydroxyprogesterone caproate as an active pharmaceutical ingredient (“API”) and this can be covered under the “medical supplies, equipment and appliances suitable for use in the home” portion of home health. Because CMS does not require states to list all of the items they cover under this section in the Medicaid state plan, states can cover hydroxyprogesterone caproate under their current state plans and do not need to submit a state plan amendment to provide for such coverage. The Company believes that this has the potential of excluding Makena® from being provided under the various state Medicaid programs. The Company estimates that state Medicaid programs cover approximately 40% to 45% of the total number of pregnancies in the United States. The Company has been responding to these criticisms and events in a number of respects, including the announced reduction in the published list price of Makena® from $1,500 per injection to $690 per injection on April 1, 2011 (prior to expected further discounting of such list price by the mandatory 23.1% Medicaid rebate and other supplemental rebates and discounts already agreed to or currently under negotiation with public and private payors), and the expansion of an already announced patient assistance program for patients who are not covered by health insurance or could otherwise not afford Makena® or their respective co-pays. Further, the Company is working directly with health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers, Medicaid management companies, and others regarding the net cost of Makena® coverage and reimbursement programs and other means by which Makena® would be available to patients. The Company can give no assurance as to whether these responses and negotiations will be successful at obtaining an economically sufficient price or unit sales for Makena®. The commercial success and viability of the Company is largely dependent upon these efforts and appropriately responding to the media, physician, institutional, advocacy group and governmental concerns and actions regarding the pricing and sales of Makena®. The Company has substantial debt and liabilities that come due both in the near-term and over the next several years and the pricing and revenues that the Company must achieve from the sale of Makena®, together with our sales of other products, must be substantial enough to allow us to meet these obligations, refinance or retire such debt and liabilities when due, and generate sufficient profits to ensure the Company’s viability as a pharmaceutical company prior to the end of the orphan drug exclusivity period for Makena®. In addition to the sale of our generic products business, we have decided to explore strategic alternatives with respect to certain of our assets. Such sales could pose risks and may materially adversely affect our business. Our failure to liquidate or sell assets on terms favorable to us, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. We have completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of PDI, our generic products business and the sale of certain other assets. We currently are exploring strategic alternatives with respect to certain of our other assets. However, due to the general economic slowdown, we will likely be exposed to risks related to the overall macro-economic environment, including a lower rate of return than we have historically experienced on our invested assets and being limited in our ability to sell assets or to identify and carry out advantageous strategic alternatives. As noted above, we have decided to explore strategic alternatives with respect to certain assets and will seek to identify other assets for potential sale. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we will ultimately be successful with these strategic alternatives or in finding suitable purchasers for the sale of such assets. Even if we are able to find purchasers, we may not be able to obtain attractive terms and conditions for such sales, including attractive pricing. In addition, divestitures of businesses may also involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management and employee attention, significant costs and expenses, the loss of customer relationships, a decrease in revenues and earnings associated with the divested business, and the disruption of operations in the affected business. In addition, divestitures potentially involve significant post-closing separation activities, which could involve the expenditure of significant financial and employee resources. Our inability to consummate identified sales, manage the post-separation transition arrangements, or identify and carry out advantageous strategic alternatives could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An adverse resolution of the private and government litigation and governmental inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are fully cooperating in certain governmental matters, including pending litigations with the States of Utah and Louisiana with respect to AWP with respect to ETHEX products in past years. (see Note 15—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report). We have also received a civil investigative demand from the State of Texas that appears to pertain to Makena®. We are not aware whether, or the extent to which, any pending governmental inquiries and/or related private litigation might result in the payment of fines, penalties or judgments or the imposition of operating restrictions on our business; however, if we are required to pay fines, penalties or judgments, the amount could be material. 27 Table of Contents Furthermore, any governmental enforcement action could require us to operate under significant restrictions, place substantial burdens on management, hinder our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and/or cause us to incur significant costs or damages. In connection with the guilty plea by ETHEX pursuant to the plea agreement, ETHEX was expected to be excluded from participation in federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. As a result, HHS OIG had discretionary authority to seek to similarly exclude our Company from participation in federal health care programs. In addition, in light of the exclusion of Marc S. Hermelin on November 18, 2010, HHS OIG had discretionary authority to seek to similarly exclude our Company from participation in federal health care programs. However, on November 10, 2010, Mr. M. Hermelin voluntarily resigned as a member of the Board of Directors. We had been advised that HHS OIG notified Mr. M. Hermelin that he would be excluded from participating in federal health care programs effective November 18, 2010. In an effort to avoid adverse consequences to our Company, including the foregoing potential discretionary exclusion of our Company, and to enable our Company to secure our expanded financial agreement, HHS OIG, Mr. M. Hermelin and his wife (solely with respect to shares owned jointly between them and certain other obligations therein) entered into a settlement agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”) under which Mr. M. Hermelin also resigned as trustee of all family trusts that hold KV stock, agreed to divest his personal ownership interests in our Company’s Class A Common and Class B Common stock (approximately 1.8 million shares), including certain shares owned jointly with his wife over an agreed upon period of time in accordance with a divestiture plan and schedule approved by HHS OIG, and agreed to refrain from voting stock under his personal control. In order to implement such agreement, Mr. M. Hermelin and his wife granted to an independent third party immediate irrevocable proxies and powers of attorney to divest his (and their jointly owned) personal stock interests in our Company if Mr. M. Hermelin does not timely do so. The Settlement Agreement also required Mr. M. Hermelin to agree, for the duration of his exclusion, not to seek to influence or be involved with, in any manner, the governance, management, or operations of our Company. As long as the parties comply with the Settlement Agreement, HHS OIG has agreed not to exercise its discretionary authority to exclude our Company from participation in federal health care programs, thereby allowing our Company and our subsidiaries (with the single exception of ETHEX, which was filed for dissolution under state law effective December 15, 2010, pursuant to the Divestiture Agreement with HHS OIG) to continue to conduct business through all federal and state health care programs. The Company is also a signatory to the Settlement Agreement between HHS OIG and Mr. M. Hermelin with respect to certain obligations therein, including adopting certain internal policies and notices, reporting violations, reimbursing certain fees of a third party acting under the agreement, and taking certain actions in support of the agreement, including providing certain assistance in the sale of the shares being divested thereunder. On November 15, 2010, we entered into the Divestiture Agreement with HHS OIG under which we agreed to sell the assets and operations of ETHEX to unrelated third parties prior to April 28, 2011 and to file articles of dissolution with respect to ETHEX under Missouri law by that date. We filed articles of dissolution for ETHEX on December 15, 2010. Following the filing, ETHEX may not engage in any new business other than winding up its operations and will engage in a process provided under Missouri law to identify and resolve its liabilities over at least a two-year period. Under the terms of the Divestiture Agreement, HHS OIG agreed not to exclude ETHEX from federal health care programs until April 28, 2011 and, upon completion of the sale of the ETHEX assets and of the filing of the articles of dissolution of ETHEX, the agreement will terminate. Civil monetary penalties and exclusion of ETHEX could have occurred if we had failed to meet our April 28, 2011 deadline. The sales of ETHEX’s assets (other than certain fixtures as to which HHS OIG has consented to non-divestiture) were completed prior to the April 28, 2011 deadline and ETHEX no longer has any ongoing material assets or operations other than those required to conclude the winding up process under Missouri law. We have also received a letter from HHS OIG advising us further that assuming that we have complied with all agreements deemed necessary by HHS OIG, HHS OIG would not exclude ETHEX thereafter. On April 1, 2011, we requested confirmation from HHS OIG that the steps and actions described in our reports to HHS OIG constituted full compliance with the duties KV and ETHEX were to complete by April 28, 2011 under the Divestiture Agreement, such that they are not at risk for stipulated penalties or exclusion after that date under the Divestiture Agreement. On April 8, 2011, we received a letter from HHS OIG stating that, at this time, based upon the information provided to HHS OIG in our monthly submissions, HHS OIG has no concerns regarding the actions taken by KV and ETHEX pursuant to the Divestiture Agreement. On May 20, 2011, we received a letter from HHS OIG stating that based on its review of the information provided in our monthly reports, it appeared that the Company and ETHEX had completed our obligations under the Divestiture Agreement. As a result of the foregoing actions and agreements entered into by Mr. M. Hermelin, the two agreements with HHS OIG and the referenced correspondence with HHS OIG, we believe we have resolved our remaining issues with respect to HHS OIG and are positioned to continue to participate in federal health care programs now and in the future. However, a failure by the parties to comply with the Settlement Agreement or the Divestiture Agreement could lead to future exclusion of our Company under certain circumstances and any such exclusion would materially harm our Company and its future business and viability. In addition, we are subject to a number of private litigation matters as more fully described in Note 15—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. If we do not prevail in one or more pending lawsuits, we may be required to pay a significant amount of monetary damages. 28 Table of Contents Our ongoing private litigation and governmental inquiries also could impair our ability to raise additional capital. We are involved in various legal proceedings and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings (see Note 15—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report). We are subject to or involved in various legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability, breach of contract, stockholder class action lawsuits, employment lawsuits, indemnification claims, governmental pricing lawsuits, and proceedings relating to Medicaid reimbursements that involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief. In December 2008 and January 2009, three law suits were filed against the Company in United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The operative complaints in these three cases purport to state claims arising under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), on behalf of a putative class of stock purchasers. The three cases were subsequently consolidated. The amended complaint for the consolidated action, styled Public Pension Fund Group v. KV Pharma. Co., et al., was filed on May 22, 2009. The Court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss the Company and all individual defendants in February 2010 and in October 2010, the Court denied plaintiffs’ motion for relief from the order of dismissal and to amend pleadings. The plaintiffs appealed the District Court’s decision to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. On June 4, 2012, the Court of Appeals affirmed that plaintiffs did not adequately plead that the Company made false or misleading statements about earnings as they relate to the manufacturer of Metoprolol and that the liability claims alleged against certain individual defendants should be dismissed. The Court of Appeals reversed and remanded the remainder of the action holding that plaintiffs had adequately plead that the Company’s statements regarding the Company’s compliance with FDA regulations and cGMP were false or misleading. The Court of Appeals also directed the District Court to grant plaintiff’s motion to amend its complaint. It is unclear what impact the decision the Court of Appeals to allow an amended complaint will have on the ultimate outcome of this case or what the impact will be on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. Any adverse determination with respect to any legal proceedings or inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We are involved in various legal proceedings with our former Chief Executive Officer and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings. On December 5, 2008, the Board terminated the employment agreement of Marc S. Hermelin, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company at that time, “for cause” (as that term is defined in such employment agreement). Additionally, the Board removed Mr. M. Hermelin as Chairman of the Board and as the Chief Executive Officer, effective December 5, 2008. In accordance with the termination provisions of his employment agreement, the Company determined that Mr. M. Hermelin would not be entitled to any severance benefits. In addition, as a result of Mr. M. Hermelin’s termination “for cause,” the Company determined it was no longer obligated for the retirement benefits specified in the employment agreement. However, Mr. M. Hermelin informed the Company that he believed he effectively retired from his employment with the Company prior to the termination of his employment agreement on December 5, 2008 by the Board. If it is determined that Mr. M. Hermelin did effectively retire prior to December 5, 2008, the actuarially determined present value (as calculated in December 2008) of the retirement benefits due to him would total $36.9 million. On November 10, 2010, Mr. M. Hermelin voluntarily resigned as a member of the Board. On March 22, 2011, Mr. M. Hermelin made a demand on the Company for indemnification with respect to his payment of $1.9 million imposed by the United States District Court as a fine and forfeiture of pecuniary gain as part of the sentence resulting from his guilty plea entered by the Court on March 10, 2011. Mr. M. Hermelin pled guilty to two federal misdemeanor counts as a responsible corporate officer of the Company at the time when a misbranding of two morphine sulfate tablets occurred that contained more of the active ingredient than stated on the label. In addition, the Company has advanced, under the terms of the Indemnification Agreement, legal expenses amounting to approximately $7.3 million to various law firms that represented Mr. M. Hermelin for legal matters including the FDA and SEC investigations, the Department of Justice inquiry, the Audit Committee investigation, HHS OIG exclusion, various class action lawsuits and the lawsuits between Mr. M. Hermelin and the Company related to advancement, indemnification and retirement benefits. Under the Company’s Indemnification Agreement entered into with all directors, including Mr. M. Hermelin when he served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as a condition for the advancement of expenses, each director is required to sign an undertaking to reimburse the Company for the advanced expenses in the event it is found that the director is not entitled to indemnification. The Company has also received invoices for $0.1 million of additional legal fees covering the same or other matters for which Mr. M. Hermelin is demanding indemnification. The Company has not paid these invoices. Mr. M. Hermelin’s demand for reimbursement of the $1.9 million fine and forfeiture, the advancement of legal fees to represent him for various legal matters and whether only such advancement should be indemnified is being handled by a special committee of independent directors appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company. On March 12, 2012, over the objection of the Company, Mr. M. Hermelin presented a demand to a bank to release $4.5 million to him, as beneficiary, under a letter of credit that had been maintained by the Company according to the terms of his terminated employment agreement. The letter of credit was originally established by the Company upon entering into the now terminated employment agreement in December 1996. The letter of credit was not renewed and on March 31, 2012 the bank released the $4.5 million to Mr. M. Hermelin. On April 25, 2012, Mr. M. Hermelin filed an amended counterclaim against the Company and a third-party petition against certain former directors and officers of the Company alleging, among other things, breach of contract, wrongful termination, malicious prosecution, breach of 29 Table of Contents good faith and fair dealing, breach of fiduciary duty, intentional infliction of emotional distress and defamation, and seeking damages in excess of $80.0 million, for breach of contract and breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and an additional $100.0 million for historical claims and punitive damages. On October 11, 2011, the Company, at the direction of the Special Committee, filed a Petition for declaratory judgment in the Circuit Court of St. Louis County against Mr. M. Hermelin styled K-V Pharmaceutical Company v. Marc Hermelin seeking a declaration of rights of the parties with regard to Mr. M. Hermelin’s employment and indemnification agreements with the Company. The Company alleges that Mr. M Hermelin is not entitled to payments under such agreements due to breaches of his fiduciary obligations to the Company and its Board. On October 14, 2011, Mr. M. Hermelin filed an action in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware styled Marc S. Hermelin v. K-V Pharmaceutical Company, seeking: advancement of expenses in connection with certain proceedings; mandatory and permissive indemnification of attorneys’ fees and other expenses incurred as to other proceedings; and advancement of attorneys’ fees that he has incurred and will incur in the St. Louis County and Delaware actions. Mr. M. Hermelin claims that he is entitled to such amounts under the Company’s Bylaws, Delaware law and his indemnification agreement. On February 7, 2012 the Court of Chancery issued a Memorandum Opinion determining: (1) Mr. M. Hermelin is not entitled to advancement from the Company in connection with a matter related to the release of certain jail records; (2) Mr. M. Hermelin is not entitled to mandatory indemnification with respect to his payment of $1.9 million fine and forfeiture resulting from his guilty plea; (3) Mr. M. Hermelin is not entitled to mandatory indemnification in the HHS OIG exclusion matter; and (4) Mr. M. Hermelin is entitled to mandatory indemnification in the FDA consent decree matter. The parties continue to litigate the issue of whether Mr. M. Hermelin is entitled to permissive indemnification for the $1.9 million fine and forfeiture or the HHS OIG matter. Any determination with respect to these legal proceedings adverse to the Company could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to continue as a going concern, including creating events of default under our secured and unsecured debt obligations. In addition, if required to be paid, certain of the indemnification obligations may not be “covered matters” under our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. Further, in the event Mr. M Hermelin is ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover the amounts previously advanced to him. Due to these insurance coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification and other obligations, which may have a material adverse result on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any significant interruption in the supply of raw materials or finished product could have a material adverse effect on our business. The active pharmaceutical ingredient (i.e., the chemical compounds that produce the desired therapeutic effect in our products) and other materials and supplies used in the products we sell, Evamist® and Makena®, are purchased by our contract manufacturers from many different domestic and foreign suppliers. Our contract manufacturers also maintain safety stocks in our raw materials inventory, and in certain cases where we have listed only one supplier in our applications with the FDA, we have received FDA approval to use alternative suppliers should the need arise. However, there is no guarantee that we will always have timely and sufficient access to a critical raw material or finished product, or access to such materials or products on commercially reasonable terms. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced raw material, including the active ingredient, or finished product could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows to be materially adversely affected. In addition, our contract manufacturers’ capabilities could be impacted by quality deficiencies in the products which our suppliers provide, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Where we purchase finished products for sale, it is possible for the ability or willingness of our suppliers to supply us to be disrupted, delayed or terminated, including as a result of regulatory actions by the FDA or other government agencies, including shipping halts, product seizures and recalls affecting such suppliers, or as a result of labor stoppages, facility damage or casualties, or other sources of interruption. Such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. 30 Table of Contents We may not have access to the full amount available under the committed equity line financing facility. Although the equity line financing facility with Commerce Court provides for access to up to $20.0 million, before Commerce Court is obligated to purchase any shares of our Class A Common Stock pursuant to a draw down notice, certain conditions specified in the Purchase Agreement must be met. Some of these conditions are not in our control. There is no guarantee that these conditions will be met nor is there any guarantee that any of the other conditions in the Purchase Agreement will be met that would enable a drawdown of any portion of the amounts available under the equity line with Commerce Court. The amount and timing of how much we are able to draw are subject to a variety of factors including the trading price and trading volume of our Class A Common Stock, the number of trading days that must lapse between draw requests and a limit on the amount of shares that Commerce Court will own at any given time. Any draws require the unanimous approval of the Company’s board of directors. We may be subject to substantial damages for product liability claims. The design, development, manufacturing and sale of our products involve an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims by consumers and other third parties in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects. In particular, the administration of drugs to humans may cause, or may appear to have caused, adverse side effects (including death) or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug has been administered to patients for some time. As described in Note 15—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report, we are involved in various product liability claims, including both lawsuits and pre-litigation claims. Product liability claims are complex in nature and, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management’s attention, may adversely affect our reputation, may reduce demand for our products and may result in significant damages. We may also become subject to claims by private parties with respect to the alleged conduct that is the subject of the plea agreement. We currently have product liability insurance to mitigate the risks involved with our products, but the insurance coverage is not sufficient to cover fully all of these claims. In addition, we are subject to the risk that our insurers will seek to deny coverage for claims that we believe should be covered. Our insurers have, in certain cases, reserved their rights with respect to certain claims or cases that have been brought against us. Furthermore, adequate insurance coverage might not be available in the future at acceptable costs, if at all. Significant judgments against us for product liability, and the high costs of defense against such lawsuits, not covered or not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful, the adverse publicity and time and expense of defending such a claim may interfere with our business. If we do not meet the New York Stock Exchange continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted. In order to maintain our listing on the NYSE, we must continue to meet the NYSE minimum share price listing rule, the minimum market capitalization rule and other continued listing criteria. If our common stock were delisted, it could (1) reduce the liquidity and market price of our common stock; (2) negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing and access the public capital markets; and (3) materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. At certain points during calendar year 2010 and 2011, the price and 30-day average price of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock failed to satisfy the quantitative listing standards of the NYSE. Even though the price and 30-day average price of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock currently satisfy the quantitative listing standards of the NYSE, including with respect to minimum share price and public float, we can provide no assurance that they will remain at such levels. Pursuant to the indentures governing our convertible notes and our 2015 Notes, a default in the payment of other indebtedness or any final non-appealable judgments could result in these debt obligations becoming immediately due and payable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. In May 2003, we issued $200.0 million principal amount of 2.5% Contingent Convertible Subordinated Notes which mature in 2033 (the “2033 Notes”). We are current in all our financial payment obligations under the indenture governing the 2033 Notes. However, a failure by us or any of our subsidiaries to pay any indebtedness or any final non-appealable judgments in excess of $0.8 million constitutes an event of default under the indenture. An event of default would permit the trustee under the indenture or the holders of at least 25% of the 2033 Notes to declare all amounts owing to be immediately due and payable and exercise other remedies, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and cash flows, as well as our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, if an event of default under the indenture was to be triggered and the 2033 Notes repaid, we could recognize cancellation of indebtedness income. Such cancellation of indebtedness income would result in a tax liability to the extent not reduced by our tax attributes. Additionally, a default in payment of other indebtedness in the amount of $5.0 million or more, including an event of default with respect to the 2033 Notes, would trigger a default under the indenture governing the 2015 Notes, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and cash flows, as well as our ability to continue as a going concern. 31 Table of Contents Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under Delaware law, our Amended Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future inquiries, investigations and litigation (see Note 15—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report included in this Report). In connection with some of these pending matters, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses to several of our current and former directors, officers and associates and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. Certain of these obligations may not be “covered matters” under our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. Further, in the event the directors, officers and associates are ultimately determined to not be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover the amounts we previously advanced to them. In addition, we have incurred significant expenses in connection with the pending inquiries, investigations and litigation. We maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance for non-indemnifiable securities claims and have met the retention limits under these policies with respect to these pending matters. We cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. Due to these insurance coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification and other obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On March 22, 2011, Mr. M. Hermelin made a demand on the Company for indemnification with respect to his payment of $1.9 million imposed by the United States District Court as a fine and forfeiture of pecuniary gain as part of the sentence resulting from his guilty plea entered by the Court on March 10, 2011. Mr. M. Hermelin pled guilty to two federal misdemeanor counts as a responsible corporate officer of the Company at the time when a misbranding of two morphine sulfate tablets occurred which contained more of the active ingredient than stated on the label. In addition, the Company has advanced, under the terms of the Indemnification Agreement, legal expense amounting to approximately $7.3 million to a variety of law firms who represented Mr. M. Hermelin for legal matters including the FDA and SEC investigations, the U.S. Department of Justice inquiry, the Audit Committee investigation, HHS OIG exclusion and various class action lawsuits. Under the Company’s standard Indemnification Agreement entered into with all directors, including Mr. M. Hermelin when he served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as a condition for the advancement of expenses, each director is required to sign an undertaking to reimburse the Company for the advanced expenses in the event it is found that the director is not entitled to indemnification. Mr. M. Hermelin’s demand for reimbursement of the $1.9 million fine and forfeiture, and whether the advanced legal fees to represent him for various legal matters should be indemnified, is currently the subject of litigation between the Company and Mr. M. Hermelin. We have significant post-closing obligations related to the sale of the assets of K-V Generic subsidiary and our generic products business to Zydus Pharmaceuticals. We sold our generics business on August 8, 2011. The sale of a business involves a number of risks, including the diversion of management and employee attention, significant costs and expenses, the loss of customer relationships, a decrease in revenues and potential for future earnings associated with the divested business, and the disruption of operations in the affected business. In addition, divestitures potentially involve significant post-closing separation activities, and the possibility of claims for breach of representations, warranties or covenants under the sale agreement, which could involve the expenditure of significant financial and employee resources. Inability to manage the post-separation transition arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to address the issues identified in the consent decree and resume manufacturing and distribution of more of our approved products in a timely and cost effective manner, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows will continue to be materially adversely affected. On March 2, 2009, we entered into a consent decree with the FDA regarding our drug manufacturing and distribution, which is described in more detail in Part II, Item 7—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Report. Our actions and the requirements under the consent decree have had, and are expected to continue to have, a material adverse effect on our liquidity position and operating results. The consent decree required us, before resuming manufacturing at our former facilities, to retain an independent cGMP expert to undertake a review of our facilities, policies, procedures and practices and to certify compliance with the FDA’s cGMP regulations. On January 13, 2010, our independent cGMP expert, Lachman, notified the FDA that it had performed a comprehensive inspection and that our facilities and controls are in compliance with cGMP and the consent decree but advised us to enact further enhancements to certain aspects of our cGMP systems. In accordance with the advice from Lachman, we continued to enhance our cGMP systems, and Lachman subsequently reinspected our cGMP systems and on April 26, 2010 certified our compliance with all cGMP systems 32 Table of Contents requirements. On July 27, 2010, we received a certification from Lachman regarding the first group of our approved products for which we sought FDA approval to manufacture and return to the market. In August 2010, the FDA re-inspected our facilities without issuing any adverse findings, and in September 2010, the FDA determined that our facilities are in compliance, allowing us to resume shipment of our now-divested Potassium Chloride Extended Release Capsule products. We are working exclusively with Perrigo on a collaboration to launch Gynazole-1® sometime during fiscal year 2013. We are currently carrying out the preparatory work on Clindesse® in conjunction with two potential contract manufacturers for which Lachman certification and FDA approval is sought We currently do not expect to resume shipments of additional products until sometime during fiscal year 2013. In addition, we expect that any resumption of shipments of additional products will be limited to only a few products. Despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that our initiatives with respect to the additional products that are intended to comply with the requirements under the consent decree and enable us to reintroduce certain of our other approved products to the market will be successful within the time frames currently projected by management or at all. If we are not able to obtain the FDA’s permission for our contract manufacturers to resume manufacturing and distribution of our other products in a timely manner at a reasonable cost, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows will continue to be materially adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, one of our top priorities is to maintain and attempt to increase our cash and financial resources. As a result, if we determine that our current goal of meeting the consent decree requirements and returning certain of our other approved products to market is likely to be significantly delayed, we may decide to further reduce our operations, including further reductions of our employee base, and to significantly curtail some or all of our efforts to meet the consent decree requirements and return our approved products to market. Such decision would be made on an analysis of the costs and benefits of bringing particular additional approved products back to the marketplace as well as based on our ability to manage our near-term cash obligations, to obtain additional capital through asset sales and/or external financing and to expeditiously meet the consent decree requirements and return certain of our approved products to market. If such decision were to be made, we currently anticipate that we would focus our efforts on products that we believe have the highest potential return on investment, which we currently believe to be primarily Makena®. We are evaluating other alternatives available to us in order to increase our cash balance. Even if we are able to address the issues identified in the consent decree and resume distribution and third party manufacturing of some or all of our other approved products in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could continue to be materially adversely affected. As discussed above, we have been unable to manufacture or ship certain products that we formerly manufactured for an extended period of time. We operate in a highly competitive industry and it is possible that, even if we are able to return some of our other approved products to the market, certain of our customers will purchase smaller quantities or no quantities of our products. Such a potential loss of market share would likely result in limiting the prices we are able to charge for our approved products, which will negatively impact our gross margin. In addition, our financial position is expected to be adversely affected by our inability to manufacture and distribute certain of our unapproved products until such time as there is an approved ANDA or NDA for each such product, which will only occur if we decide to pursue, and are able to fund, the studies required for such approvals over an extended period of time. It is possible that we may not be able to return all or any of our unapproved or approved products to market. Moreover, entering into the consent decree, as well as the criticism regarding the list pricing of Makena®, may have damaged our reputation in the market, which could result in a competitive disadvantage. Furthermore, general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control, may affect our future performance. Therefore, even after we are able to resume shipment of our other approved products, our business might not generate cash flow at or above historic levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We face continuing risks in connection with the plea agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice related to allegations of failure to make and submit field alert reports to the FDA in September 2008. We, at the direction of a temporary special committee of the Board of Directors that was in place prior to June 10, 2010, responded to requests for information from the Office of the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri and FDA representatives working with that office. As more fully described in Note 15—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report, our subsidiary ETHEX entered into a plea agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice that relates to allegations of failure to make and submit field alert reports to the FDA in September 2008 regarding the discovery of certain undistributed tablets that failed to meet product specifications. In exchange for the voluntary guilty plea by ETHEX, the U.S. Department of Justice agreed that no further federal prosecution will be brought in the Eastern District of Missouri against ETHEX, KV or Ther-Rx regarding allegations of the misbranding and adulteration of any oversized tablets of drugs manufactured by us, and the failure to file required reports regarding these drugs and patients’ use of these drugs with the FDA, during the period commencing on January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008. However, the plea agreement does not bind any governmental office or agency other than the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri and the Office of Consumer 33 Table of Contents Litigation and we cannot rule out regulatory or other actions by governmental entities not party to the plea agreement. In addition, the plea agreement does not limit the rights and authority of the United States of America to take any civil, tax or administrative action against us, and any recommendation in the plea agreement as to the amount of loss or restitution is not binding upon the United States in any civil or administrative action by the government against us. We may also become subject to claims by private parties with respect to the alleged conduct that is the subject of the plea agreement. Pursuant to the plea agreement, ETHEX is subject to a criminal fine in the aggregate amount of $23.4 million, using the standard federal judgment rate of 0.22% per annum, payable as follows: Payment Amount including interest ($ in millions) Payment Due Date $2.3 March 12, 2010 1.0 December 15, 2010 1.0 June 15, 2011 1.0 December 15, 2011 2.0 June 15, 2012 4.0 December 15, 2012 5.0 June 15, 2013 7.1 December 15, 2013 The Company made all payments to date as scheduled. If we fail to make any of the remaining installment payments, the U.S. Attorney’s Office, in its sole discretion, may void the plea agreement, keep any payments already made under the plea agreement and prosecute us using, among other evidence, the admissions made in the plea agreement. We face significant risks if we default on our obligations to the government in connection with the settlement of certain alleged false claims. On August 29, 2002, Constance Conrad (“Relator”) filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts styled United States ex rel. Constance Conrad, et al. v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., pursuant to the qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act, against multiple defendants, including the Company. On December 6, 2011, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with the Department of Justice, the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and the TRICARE Management Activity (collectively the “United States”) to resolve this dispute. Pursuant to this settlement agreement, the Company agreed to pay a total sum of $17.0 million, plus interest, to the United States in installments over five years as follows: Total Payment Amounts including interest ($ in millions) Calendar Year $0.6 2011 $0.4 2012 $2.4 2013 $3.4 2014 $5.4 2015 $6.7 2016 The Company made the payments that were due for calendar year 2011. In addition, the Company agreed to pay certain attorneys’ fees and costs to Relator’s counsel. In exchange for this settlement agreement, the Company obtained releases from the Relators and limited releases from the United States for the covered conduct. There is no guarantee that certain government agencies will not pursue similar claims for the covered conduct or in connection with other Company products. In the event we default on our payment obligations, the United States may, among other things, seek to have the Company excluded from participation in federal and state health care programs and seek payment for the full amount of damages alleged in the suit. 34 Table of Contents Continuing negative publicity from the consent decree, the plea agreement, our list pricing of Makena® and ongoing litigation and governmental inquiries may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of the consent decree, the plea agreement, our list pricing of Makena®, ongoing litigation and governmental inquiries and related matters, we have been the subject of negative publicity. This negative publicity may harm our relationships with current and future investors, government regulators, employees, customers and vendors. For example, negative publicity may adversely affect our reputation, which could harm our ability to obtain new customers, maintain existing business relationships with other parties and maintain a viable business in the future. Also, it is possible that the negative publicity and its effect on our work environment could cause our employees to terminate their employment or, if they remain employed by us, result in reduced morale that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, negative publicity has and may continue to adversely affect our stock price and, therefore, employees and prospective employees may also consider our stability and the value of any equity incentives when making decisions regarding employment opportunities. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The consent decree, the plea agreement, the Settlement Agreement, the Divestiture Agreement, our list pricing of Makena® and the ongoing governmental and private litigation and governmental inquiries have resulted in significant fees, costs and expenses, diverted management time and resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. We have incurred significant costs associated with, or as a consequence of, the steps taken by us in connection with the nationwide recall and suspension of shipment of all products manufactured by us, the requirements under the consent decree, the plea agreement, the Settlement Agreement, the Divestiture Agreement, our list pricing of Makena® and the ongoing governmental and private litigation and governmental inquiries, including legal fees (including advancement of legal fees to individuals pursuant to our indemnification obligations), accounting fees, consulting fees and similar expenses. Although we believe that a portion of these expenditures may be recoverable from insurance policies that we have purchased, the insurance does not extend to all of these expenditures, the insurance limits may be insufficient even with respect to expenditures that would otherwise be covered, and the insurance carriers have reserved their rights to contest coverage under the insurance policies on multiple grounds. In addition, our Board, management and employees have expended a substantial amount of time in connection with these matters, diverting resources and attention that would otherwise have been directed toward our operations and implementation of our business strategy. We expect to continue to spend additional time and incur significant additional professional fees, expenses and costs, including administrative expenses similar to those discussed above, as well as costs associated with the remedial activities adopted by the Audit Committee or the Board. Pursuant to the plea agreement, we are subject to fines, restitution and forfeiture in the remaining aggregate amount of $18.1 million still to be paid. In addition, we are not aware whether, or the extent to which, any pending governmental inquiries and/or related private litigation might result in the payment of fines, penalties or judgments or the imposition of operating restrictions on our business; however, if we are required to pay fines, penalties or judgments, the amount could be material. In addition, if we do not prevail in one or more pending lawsuits, we may be required to pay a significant amount of monetary damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have only recently become current in the filing of our periodic reports with the SEC. Our efforts to become and remain current with our SEC filings have required and will continue to require substantial management time and attention as well as additional accounting and legal expense. We were required to restate our financial statements in our fiscal 2011 Form 10-K and certain quarterly reports due to an error in accounting for certain warrants. If we are not able to remain current with our SEC filings, investors in our securities will not have information regarding the current state of our business and financial condition with which to make decisions regarding investment in our securities. We will not be able to conduct any registered offerings unless we remain current in our SEC filings and we will not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 for a period of 12 months after the time we became current in our SEC filings. Until we are again eligible to use Form S-3, we are required to use a registration statement on Form S-1 to register securities with the SEC or issue such securities in a private placement, which could increase the cost of raising capital. If we do not remain current with our SEC filings, our securities may be delisted from the NYSE and we may not maintain compliance with certain of our debt covenants. Our industry is highly regulated and our products are subject to ongoing regulatory review, and even if we address the issues identified in the consent decree and resume manufacturing and distribution of more of our approved products, we likely will continue to be subject to heightened scrutiny with regard to our operations. Our Company, our drug products, the manufacturing facilities for our drug products, the distribution of our drug products, and our promotion and marketing materials are subject to strict and continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory agencies for compliance with pre-approval and post-approval regulatory requirements, including cGMP regulations, adverse event reporting, advertising and product promotion regulations, and other requirements. 35 Table of Contents As a result of our consent decree and the plea agreement, we anticipate that we will be scrutinized more closely than other companies by the FDA and other regulatory agencies, even if we address the issues identified in the consent decree and resume manufacturing and distribution of additional products. Failure to comply with manufacturing and other post-approval state or federal laws, regulations of the FDA and other regulatory agencies can, among other things, result in warning letters, fines, increased compliance expense, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, additional product recalls or seizures, forced discontinuance of or changes to important promotion and marketing campaigns, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The cost of compliance with pre- and post-approval regulation may have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the requirements or restrictions imposed on us or our products may change, either as a result of administratively adopted policies or regulations or as a result of the enactment of new laws and new government oversight. At present, the activities of pharmaceutical companies are subject to heightened scrutiny by federal and state regulators and legislators, and FDA enforcement is expected to increase. Any new statutory or regulatory provisions or policy changes could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials, and regulatory review and approval, as well as increased costs to assure compliance with any new post-approval regulatory requirements. If we are unable to commercialize products under development or that we acquire, our future operating results may suffer. Certain products we develop or acquire will require significant additional development and investment prior to their commercialization. Our research and development activities, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials (where required), manufacturing activities and the anticipated marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by a wide range of governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA. To satisfy FDA regulatory approval standards for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we must, among other requirements, demonstrate in adequate and well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective. Even if we believe that data from our pre-clinical and clinical studies demonstrates safety and efficacy, our analysis of such data is subject to confirmation and interpretation by the FDA, which may have different views on the design, scope or results of our clinical trials, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA wields substantial discretion in deciding whether a drug meets the approval criteria, and even if approved, such approval may be conditioned on, among other things, restricted promotion, restricted distribution, a risk evaluation mitigation strategy, or post-marketing studies. Such restrictions may negatively affect our ability to market the drug among competitor products, as well as adversely affect our business. We expect that many of these products will not be commercially available for several years, if at all. We cannot assure you that such products or future products will be successfully developed, prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials (if required), meet applicable regulatory standards, or be capable of being manufactured in commercial quantities at reasonable cost or at all. If we are unable to commercialize products under development or that we acquire, our future operating results may suffer. Even if we are able to address the issues identified in the consent decree and resume our drug development plans, some of our product candidates may have to undergo rigorous and expensive clinical trials, the results of which are uncertain and could substantially delay or prevent us from bringing drugs to market. Before we receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our drug candidates, our drug candidates are subject to extensive pre-clinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. Conducting pre-clinical testing and clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, expensive, and uncertain process that often takes many years. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that pre-clinical testing or clinical trials of any drug candidates will demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates at all or to the extent necessary to obtain FDA approval. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. We cannot provide assurances that our collaborators will successfully complete the planned clinical trials. Our collaborators or we may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval or commercializing our product candidates, including the following events: • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or the FDA may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or pre-clinical studies or to abandon development programs; • trial results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA; • we, independent institutional review boards or the FDA may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and • the effects of our product candidates on patients may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use. 36 Table of Contents Even if we are able to address the issues identified in the consent decree and resume our drug development plans, our pre-clinical or clinical trials for some of our products under development may be unsuccessful or delayed. Significant delays in clinical trials could materially affect our product development costs and delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We do not know whether clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be redesigned or will be completed on schedule, if at all. There are a number of factors that may cause delays or suspension in clinical trials: • delays or failures in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a trial; • inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of acceptable materials for use in clinical trials; • the delay or failure in reaching agreement on contract terms with prospective study sites; • delays in recruiting patients to participate in a clinical trial; • the delay or failure in obtaining independent institutional review board review and approval of the clinical trial protocol; • the failure of third-party clinical trial managers, including clinical research organizations, to perform their oversight of the trials or meet expected deadlines; • the failure of our clinical investigational sites and related facilities and records to be in compliance with the FDA’s Good Clinical Practices, including the failure to pass FDA inspections of clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues; • inability to secure clinical trial insurance; • lack of demonstrated efficacy in the clinical trials; • our inability to reach agreement with the FDA on a trial design that we are able to execute; • difficulty in adequately following up with patients after treatment; or • changes in laws, regulation or regulatory policy. If clinical trials for our drug candidates are unsuccessful, delayed or cancelled, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines, which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. Previous suspensions of product shipments exposed us to failure to supply claims from our customers and could expose us to additional claims in the future. In addition to the loss of revenue, the suspension of product shipments exposes us to possible claims for certain additional costs. Pursuant to arrangements between us and certain of our customers, such customers, despite the formal discontinuation action by us of our products, may assert, and certain customers, have asserted, that we should compensate such customers for any additional costs they incurred for procuring products we did not supply. The amount of such compensation is affected by the price of any replacement product and the terms of the relevant customer agreement. Following our suspension of shipments, the price of certain products increased significantly, thereby potentially increasing the amount of any such compensation. While we have recorded an estimated liability for failure to supply claims as of March 31, 2012 based on notices we received from our customers, the actual amount of liability from current and additional claims we may face, if asserted and determined to be meritorious, could be much higher and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity position and operating results. Product recall costs had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have incurred significant costs and suffered economic losses as a result of the ongoing recall of our products and voluntary disposal of inventory in connection with the recall of our products (see Note 15—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report). Also, as a result of the recall, production suspension of our products and the disposal of our existing inventory of products required under the consent decree, management established inventory reserves to cover estimated inventory losses for all work-in-process and finished goods related to drug products we manufactured, as well as raw materials for those drug products that had no potential use in products to be manufactured in the future. Management was required to make judgments about the future benefit of our raw materials. Actual reserve requirements could differ significantly from management’s estimates, which could have a significant unfavorable impact on our future gross margins. Investigations of the calculation of average wholesale prices may adversely affect our business. Many government and third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, HMOs and managed care organizations (“MCOs”) reimburse doctors and others for the purchase of certain prescription drugs based on a drug’s AWP. In the past several years, state and federal government agencies have conducted ongoing investigations of manufacturers’ reporting practices with respect to AWP, in which they have asserted that reporting of inflated AWPs have led to excessive payments for prescription drugs. 37 Table of Contents The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement and rebates and other governmental programs are complex. We and other pharmaceutical companies are defendants in a number of suits filed by state attorneys general. While we cannot predict the outcome of the investigation, possible remedies that the government could seek include damages and civil monetary penalties. Because our processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve, and will continue to involve, subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. In addition, they are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in material changes. Further, effective October 1, 2007, the CMS adopted new rules for AMP based on the provisions of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (the “DRA”). While the matter remains subject to litigation and proposed legislation, one potential significant change as a result of the DRA is that AMP would need to be disclosed to the public. AMP was historically kept confidential by the government and participants in the Medicaid program. Disclosing AMP to competitors, customers, and the public at large could negatively affect our leverage in commercial price negotiations. In addition, as also disclosed herein, a number of state and federal government agencies are conducting investigations of manufacturers’ reporting practices with respect to AWPs in which they have suggested that reporting of inflated AWP has led to excessive payments for prescription drugs. We and numerous other pharmaceutical companies have been named as defendants in various actions relating to pharmaceutical pricing issues and whether allegedly improper actions by pharmaceutical manufacturers led to excessive payments by Medicare and/or Medicaid. Any governmental agencies that have commenced, or may commence, an investigation of our Company could impose, based on a claim of violation of fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, debarment from contracting with the government and possible exclusion from federal health care programs including Medicare and/or Medicaid. Some of the applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. Furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments—and even in the absence of any such ambiguity—a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, and may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions. Any such penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The value of our outstanding Warrants are subject to potential material changes based on fluctuations in the price of our common stock. In November 2010 and March 2011, we issued warrants granting rights to purchase up to 20.1 million shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock (the “Warrants”). Each Warrant granted the right to purchase one share of the Company’s Class A Common Stock at a price of $1.62 per share and expires in November 2015. These Warrants are described more fully in Note 23—“Warrant Liability,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. We account for the Warrants as a derivative instrument, and changes in the fair value of the Warrants are presented separately as changes in warrant liability in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations for each reporting period. We use a Monte Carlo simulation model to determine the fair value of the Warrants. As a result, the valuation of this derivative instrument is subjective because the model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility and the probability of a future occurrence of a Fundamental Transaction. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate and, such impacts can, in turn, result in material non-cash charges or credits, and related impacts on loss per share, in our statements of operations. Such fluctuations may significantly impact the market price of our outstanding common stock. A failure to remain in compliance with one or more of the requirements of an outstanding mortgage loan and a related waiver could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. In March 2006, as previously disclosed, we entered into a $43.0 million mortgage loan arrangement, of which approximately $30.6 million remains outstanding as of March 31, 2012. Also, as previously disclosed, we obtained a waiver with respect to certain requirements of the mortgage loan agreement. Failure by us to comply with the terms of the mortgage or the waiver from the lender could result in, among other things, our outstanding obligations with respect to the mortgage loan accelerating and immediately becoming due and payable and resulting in cross-defaults under our convertible notes and our 2015 Notes, described below, and other payment obligations, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and cash flows. The indenture governing the 2015 Notes contains operating and financial restrictions which may hinder our ability to pursue business opportunities and operate our business. The indenture governing the 2015 Notes contains significant operating and financial restrictions that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. These restrictions will limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: (1) incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; (2) pay dividends, redeem subordinated debt or make other restricted payments on capital stock; (3) designate our subsidiaries as Unrestricted Subsidiaries (as defined in the indenture); (4) change our line of business; (5) transfer or sell assets, including the capital stock of our subsidiaries; (6) make certain 38 Table of Contents investments or acquisitions; (7) grant liens on our assets; (8) incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain subsidiaries; (9) use cash proceeds from asset sales; and (10) merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets. See Note 13—“Long-Term Debt—Senior Notes” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report for a further description of the 2015 Notes. Increased indebtedness may impact our financial condition and results of operations. At March 31, 2012, we had an aggregate principal balance of $455.6 million of outstanding debt, consisting primarily of $225.0 million of the 2015 Notes, $200.0 million of the 2033 Notes, and the remaining amount of $30.6 million of the mortgage loan. Our level of indebtedness may have several important effects on our future operations, including: • we will be required to use a portion of our cash flow from operations or otherwise for the payment of any principal and interest due on our outstanding indebtedness; • our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase the impact of negative changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as competitive pressures and increases in interest rates; and • the level of our outstanding debt and the impact it has on our ability to meet debt covenants may affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes. Even if and after we are able to resume manufacturing and shipment of our products, general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, and the risks identified in this Risk Factors section, many of which are beyond our control, may affect our future performance. As a result, our business might not generate cash flow at or above historic levels. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may, among other things: • seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • seek to refinance, amend, modify or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; • sell selected assets; • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or • reduce or delay planned research and development expenditures. These measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. Holders of the 2033 Notes may require us to offer to repurchase their 2033 Notes for cash upon the occurrence of a change in control or on May 16, 2013, 2018, 2023 and 2028. The source of funds for any repurchase of the 2033 Notes required as a result of any such events will be our available cash or cash generated from operating activities or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets, sales of equity or funds provided by a new controlling entity. The use of available cash to fund the repurchase of the 2033 Notes may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. Any such repayment is a restricted payment under the indenture governing the 2015 Notes and is not permitted unless the 2015 Notes are refinanced with other indebtedness or repaid. Our cost-reducing measures could yield unintended consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As previously disclosed, we implemented significant cost savings measures to mitigate the financial impact of our actions to recall all of the products we manufactured and to suspend manufacturing and shipment of our products pending compliance with the terms of the consent decree. These measures included a substantial reduction of our workforce, which commenced on February 5, 2009, and an ongoing realignment of our cost structure. We realigned and restructured the sales force for our Ther-Rx subsidiary, and our production workforce. As a result, we reduced our employee headcount through a series of reductions to 214 as of March 31, 2012. The cost-reducing measures taken by us could yield unintended consequences, such as distraction of our management and employees, the inability to retain and attract new employees, business disruption, a negative impact on morale among remaining employees, attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce and reduced employee productivity, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our reductions in personnel may subject us to risks of litigation, which could result in substantial cost. We cannot guarantee that the cost reduction measures, or other measures we may take in the future, will result in the expected cost savings, or that any cost savings will be unaccompanied by these or other unintended consequences. 39 Table of Contents Our future growth will also depend upon our ability to develop, acquire, fund and successfully launch new products in addition to Makena®. In the near term, we are focused on meeting the requirements of the consent decree, which will allow more of our approved products to be reintroduced to the market and continuing the commercialization of Makena®. We also need to develop, acquire and commercialize new brand name products to grow our business in the future. To do this, we will need to identify, develop, acquire and commercialize technologically enhanced branded products, including using our drug delivery technologies. If we are unable to identify, develop, acquire and commercialize new products, we may need to obtain licenses to additional rights to products, assuming they would be available for licensing, which could decrease our profitability. We may not be successful in pursuing this strategy. Our patents and other proprietary rights may be important to our business and we cannot be certain of their confidentiality and protection. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products, to defend our intellectual property rights and to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. Although the pharmaceutical industry is crowded, we have been issued a substantial number of patents in the U.S. and in many foreign countries, which cover certain of our technologies, and have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products. The patent position of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and frequently involves complex legal and factual questions. As a result, the breadth of claims allowed in patents relating to pharmaceutical applications or their validity and enforceability cannot accurately be predicted. Patents are examined for patentability at patent offices against bodies of prior art which by their nature may be incomplete and imperfectly categorized. Therefore, even presuming that the patent examiner has been able to identify and cite the best prior art available to him during the examination process, any patent issued to us could later be found by a court or a patent office during post-issuance proceedings to be invalid in view of newly-discovered prior art or already considered prior art or other legal reasons. Furthermore, there are categories of “secret” prior art unavailable to any examiner, such as the prior inventive activities of others, which could form the basis for invalidating any patent. In addition, there are other reasons why a patent may be found to be invalid, such as an offer for sale or public use of the patented invention in the U.S. more than one year before the filing date of the patent application. Moreover, a patent may be deemed unenforceable if, for example, the inventor or the inventor’s agents failed to disclose prior art to the USPTO that they knew was material to patentability. The coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly altered during the examination process either in the U.S. or abroad. Consequently, our pending or future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents or may result in issued patents having claims significantly different from that of the patent application as originally filed. Patents issued to us may be subjected to further proceedings limiting their scope and may not provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage. Our patents also may be challenged, circumvented, invalidated or deemed unenforceable. Patent applications filed in the U.S. prior to November 29, 2000 are currently maintained in secrecy until and unless patents issue, and patent applications in certain other countries generally are not published until more than 18 months after they are first filed (which generally is the case in the U.S. for applications filed on or after November 29, 2000). In addition, publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. As a result, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors will be entitled to any rights in purported inventions claimed in pending or future patent applications or that we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications on such inventions. Furthermore, patents already issued to us or our pending applications may become subject to dispute, and any dispute could be resolved against us. For example, we may become involved in re-examination, reissue or interference proceedings in the USPTO, or opposition proceedings in a foreign country. The result of these proceedings can be the invalidation or substantial narrowing of our patent claims. We also could be subject to court proceedings that could find our patents invalid or unenforceable or could substantially narrow the scope of our patent claims. Even where we ultimately prevail before the USPTO or in litigation, the expense of these proceedings can be considerable. In addition, statutory differences in patentable subject matter may limit the protection we can obtain on some of our inventions outside of the U.S. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable in many countries outside of the U.S. These and other issues may prevent us from obtaining patent protection outside of the U.S. Furthermore, once patented in foreign countries, the inventions may be subjected to mandatory working requirements and/or subject to compulsory licensing regulations. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached by the other parties to these agreements. We may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of our confidentiality agreements and there can be no assurance that any such disputes would be resolved in our favor. In addition, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may become known or be independently developed by our competitors, or patents may not be issued with respect to products or methods arising from our research, and we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to those products or methods. Furthermore, certain unpatented technology may be subject to intervening rights. 40 Table of Contents We depend on our trademarks and related rights. To protect our trademarks and associated goodwill, domain name, and related rights, we generally rely on federal and state trademark and unfair competition laws, which are subject to change. Some, but not all, of our trademarks are registered in the jurisdictions where they are used. Some of our other trademarks are the subject of pending applications in the jurisdictions where they are used or intended to be used, and others are not. It is possible that third parties may own or could acquire rights in trademarks or domain names in the U.S. or abroad that are confusingly similar to or otherwise compete unfairly with our marks and domain names, or that our use of trademarks or domain names may infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. The use of similar marks or domain names by third parties could decrease the value of our trademarks or domain names and hurt our business, for which there may be no adequate remedy. Third parties may claim that we infringe on their proprietary rights, or seek to circumvent ours. We have been sued in the past for, and may in the future be required to defend against charges of infringement of patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights of third parties. Such defenses could require us to incur substantial expense and to divert significant effort of our technical and management personnel, and could result in our loss of rights to develop or make certain products or require us to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. More generally, the outcome of intellectual property litigation and disputes is uncertain and presents a risk to our business. If an intellectual property dispute is settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing, using, selling and/or importing into the U.S. certain of our products, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Litigation also may be necessary to enforce our patents against others or to protect our know-how or trade secrets. That litigation could result in substantial expense or put our proprietary rights at risk of loss, and we cannot assure you that any litigation will be resolved in our favor. As noted above, certain patent infringement lawsuits are currently pending against us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our dependence on key executives and qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel could affect the development and management of our business. We are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. Our recent reductions in our employee base have increased this dependence. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development and management of our business. Although we do not believe the loss of one individual would materially harm our business, our business might be harmed by the loss of services of multiple existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner. Much of the know-how we have developed resides in our scientific and technical personnel and is not readily transferable to other personnel. While we have employment agreements with certain of our key executives, we do not ordinarily enter into employment agreements (other than agreements related to confidentiality and proprietary rights) with our other scientific, technical and managerial employees. We may be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the concentration of our customer base. Our principal customers are specialty pharmacies and distributors. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for specialty pharmaceutical products in the U.S. As a result, a small number of customers control a significant share of the market. For the three and twelve months ended March 31, 2012, our three largest customers, which are specialty pharmacies and distributors, accounted for 20.0%, 14.9% and 12.3%, and 25.0% , 21.8% and 15.5% of our gross revenues, respectively. The loss of any of these customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We depend on licenses from others, and any loss of these licenses could harm our business, market share and profitability. We have acquired the rights to manufacture, use and/or market certain products through license agreements. We also expect to continue to obtain licenses for other products and technologies in the future. Our license agreements generally require us to develop the markets for the licensed products. If we do not develop these markets, the licensors may be entitled to terminate these license agreements. 41 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that we will fulfill all of our obligations under any particular license agreement for any variety of reasons, including lack of sufficient liquidity to fund our obligations, insufficient resources to adequately develop and market a product, lack of market development despite our efforts and lack of product acceptance. Our failure to fulfill our obligations could result in the loss of our rights under a license agreement. Certain products we have the right to license are at certain stages of clinical tests and FDA approval. Failure of any licensed product to receive regulatory approval could result in the loss of our rights under its license agreement. We expend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts that may not lead to successful product introductions. We conduct research and development primarily to enable us to manufacture and market FDA-approved pharmaceuticals in accordance with FDA regulations. Typically, research costs related to the development of innovative compounds and the filing of NDAs are significantly greater than those expenses associated with ANDA filings. Because of the inherent risk associated with research and development efforts in our industry, particularly with respect to new drugs, our research and development expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of FDA-approved new pharmaceutical products. Also, after we submit an application for approval, the FDA may request that we conduct additional studies and as a result, we may be unable to reasonably determine the total research and development costs to develop a particular product. Finally, we cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered, even if we are successful in commercialization. In September 2010, the FDA determined that our facilities were in compliance, allowing us to resume shipment of our now-divested Potassium Chloride Extended Release Capsule products (which products were sold to Zydus Pharmaceuticals), which commenced sales in that month. Additional products are in the process of being brought back to market although the Company does not expect to resume shipping other products until during fiscal year 2013. We may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for the relaunch of any of our approved products, and delays in receipt or failure to receive such clearances, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that we expend significant resources on research and development efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new products as a result of those efforts, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Our revenues, gross profit and operating results may fluctuate from period to period, depending upon our product sales mix, our product pricing, and our costs to manufacture or purchase products. Assuming we are able to comply with the requirements under the consent decree and resume the manufacture and distribution of more of our approved products, our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will depend to a significant extent upon our product sales mix (the proportion of total sales among products). Factors that may cause our sales mix to vary include: • the number and timing of new product introductions; • marketing exclusivity on products, if any, which may be obtained; • the level of competition in the marketplace with respect to certain products; • the availability of raw materials and finished products from our suppliers; • the buying patterns of our customers; • the scope and outcome of governmental regulatory action that may involve us; • periodic dependence on a relatively small number of products for a significant portion of net revenue or income; and • legal actions brought by our competitors. The profitability of our product sales is also dependent upon the prices we are able to charge for our products, and the costs to purchase products from third parties in a cost-effective manner. If our revenues and gross profit decline or do not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses. Rising insurance costs could negatively impact profitability. The cost of insurance, including workers’ compensation, directors’ and officers’ liability, product liability and general liability insurance, has risen significantly in the past few years and may continue to increase. In response, we may increase deductibles and/or decrease certain coverages to mitigate these costs. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverages, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 42 Table of Contents We may continue to incur charges for impairment of intangible and other long-lived assets. When we acquire the rights to manufacture and sell a product, we record the aggregate purchase price, along with the value of the product-related liabilities we assume, as intangible assets. We use the assistance of valuation experts to help us allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the various intangible assets we have acquired. Then, we must estimate the economic useful life of each of these intangible assets in order to amortize their cost as an expense in our consolidated statements of operations over the estimated economic useful life of the related asset. The factors that affect the actual economic useful life of a pharmaceutical product are inherently uncertain, and include patent protection, physician loyalty and prescribing patterns, competition by products prescribed for similar indications, future introductions of competing products not yet FDA-approved and the impact of promotional efforts, among many others. We consider all of these factors in initially estimating the economic useful lives of our products, and we also continuously monitor these factors for indications of decline in carrying value. In assessing the recoverability of our intangible and other long-lived assets, we must make assumptions regarding estimated undiscounted future cash flows and other factors. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows do not exceed the carrying value of the intangible or other long-lived assets being evaluated, we must determine the fair value of the intangible or other long-lived assets. If the fair value of these assets is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss will be recognized in an amount equal to the difference. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets. We review intangible assets for impairment at least annually and all long-lived and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If we determine that an intangible or long-lived asset is impaired, a non-cash impairment charge would be recognized. Because circumstances can change, the value of intangible and long-lived assets we record may not be realized by us. If we determine that impairment has occurred, we would be required to write-off the impaired portion of the unamortized assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. In addition, in the event of a sale of any of our assets, we might not recover our recorded value of the associated assets. In connection with the steps taken by us with respect to the nationwide recall and suspension of shipment of all products manufactured by us, the requirements under the consent decree, the ongoing private litigation and governmental inquiries, and certain other events in the fourth quarter of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, we completed an evaluation of each of our intangible assets, and as a result of these evaluations, recognized certain impairment charges. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2012, we completed the sale of the generics business and as a result, we evaluated our remaining long-lived assets for impairment. The Company assesses the impairment of its assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The factors that the Company considers in its assessment include the following: (1) significant underperformance of the assets relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; (2) significant changes in the manner of the Company’s use of the acquired assets or the strategy for its overall business; (3) significant negative industry or economic trends; and (4) significant adverse changes as a result of legal proceedings or governmental or regulatory actions. To test impairment of the Company’s assets, we perform cash flow analyses, which incorporate a number of significant assumptions and estimates that are subject to change as actual results become known. The sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows, which extend over the estimated useful life assigned to the assets, exceeded the carrying amount of the intangible assets as of March 31, 2012 and we concluded that the assets are not impaired as of that date. However, any significant differences in actual future results versus estimates used to prepare the cash flow analyses, such as lower sales, lower volume, increases in production costs, technological changes or changes in the regulatory environment, could result in impairment of these intangible assets at a future date. Certain significant events occurred in the three months ended September 30, 2011 and subsequent to September 30, 2011 that indicate that the carrying value of certain assets as of September 30, 2011 may not be recoverable. These events include: (a) the divestiture of our generics business (see Note 22—“Divestitures” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report); (b) the preliminary evaluation by the Company to sell or lease certain facilities that were retained by the Company following the divestiture of our generics business; and (c) the determination by the Company to completely outsource the manufacturing of the products it sells and that it is unlikely that the Company will re-engage in manufacturing its own products. Based on the events described above, the Company determined the need to assess the recoverability of certain of its facilities. Based on the Company’s analysis, the Company recorded a $31.3 million impairment charge during the quarter ended September 30, 2011. The impairment charge of $31.3 million was reflective of continuing operations of $31.0 million and discontinued operations of $0.3 million. There are inherent uncertainties involved in the estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of our financial statements, and any changes in those estimates, judgments and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The consolidated financial statements that we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. A summary of our significant accounting practices is included in Note 2—“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. The most significant estimates we are required to make under U.S. GAAP include, but are not limited to, those related to revenue recognition and reductions to gross revenues, inventory valuation, intangible asset valuations, property and equipment valuations, warrant valuation, stock-based 43 Table of Contents compensation, income taxes and loss contingencies related to legal proceedings. We periodically evaluate estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for reasonableness, including estimates provided by third parties. Appropriate adjustments to the estimates will be made prospectively, as necessary, based on such periodic evaluations. We base our estimates on, among other things, currently available information, market conditions, historical experience and various assumptions, which together form the basis of making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Although we believe that our assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, estimates would differ if different assumptions were utilized and these estimates may prove in the future to have been inaccurate. Enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Affordable Care Act”), legislative proposals, reimbursement policies of third parties, cost-containment measures and health care reform could affect the marketing, pricing and demand for our products. The enactment of the Affordable Care Act on March 23, 2010, as well as various additional legislative proposals, including proposals relating to prescription drug benefits, could materially impact the pricing and sale of our products. Further, reimbursement policies of third parties may affect the marketing of our products. Our ability to market our products will depend in part on reimbursement levels for the cost of the products and related treatment established by health care providers, including government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs and MCOs. Insurance companies, HMOs, MCOs, Medicaid and Medicare administrators and others regularly challenge the pricing of pharmaceutical products and review their reimbursement practices. In addition, the following factors could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, which could result in lower prices and a reduced demand for our products: • the trend toward managed health care in the U.S.; • the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs; • legislative proposals to reform health care and government insurance programs; and • price controls and non-reimbursement of new and highly priced medicines for which the economic therapeutic rationales are not established. The Affordable Care Act is a comprehensive and very complex and far-reaching statute. The cost-containment measures and health care reforms in the Affordable Care Act and in other legislative proposals could affect our ability to sell our products in many possible ways. The Obama administration’s fiscal year 2010 budget included proposals to reduce Medicare and Medicaid spending and reduce drug spending. We are unable to predict the ultimate impact of the Affordable Care Act, or the content or timing of any future health care reform legislation and its impact, on us. Those reforms may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The reimbursement status of a newly approved pharmaceutical product may be uncertain. Reimbursement policies and decisions, either generally affecting all pharmaceutical companies or specifically affecting us, may not include some of our products or government agencies or third parties may assert that certain of our products are not eligible for Medicaid, Medicare or other reimbursement and were not so eligible in the past, possibly resulting in demands for damages or refunds. Even if reimbursement policies of third parties grant reimbursement status for a product, we cannot be sure that these reimbursement policies will remain in effect. Limits on reimbursement could reduce the demand for our products. The unavailability or inadequacy of third-party reimbursement for our products could reduce or possibly eliminate demand for our products. We are unable to predict whether governmental authorities will enact additional legislation or regulation which will affect third-party coverage and reimbursement that reduces demand for our products. Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our industry and our business, especially our product development, manufacturing and distribution capabilities. All pharmaceutical companies, including us, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA and, to a lesser extent, the DEA and state government agencies. The FDCA, the CSA and other federal statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, injunctions or holds, recall or seizure of products and total or partial suspension of production, as well as other regulatory actions against our products and us. In addition to compliance with cGMP requirements, drug manufacturers must register each manufacturing facility with the FDA. Manufacturers and distributors of prescription drug products are also required to be registered in the states where they are located and in certain states that require registration by out-of-state manufacturers and distributors. Manufacturers also must be registered with the DEA and similar applicable state and local regulatory authorities if they handle controlled substances, and with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) and similar state and local regulatory authorities if they generate toxic or dangerous wastes, and must also comply with other applicable DEA and EPA requirements. 44 Table of Contents From time to time, governmental agencies have conducted investigations of pharmaceutical companies relating to the distribution and sale of drug products to government purchasers or subject to government or third-party reimbursement. However, standards sought to be applied in the course of governmental investigations can be complex and may not be consistent with standards previously applied to our industry generally or previously understood by us to be applicable to our activities. The process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming and costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental or third-party approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping many of our products. Consequently, we cannot predict whether we will obtain FDA or other necessary approvals or whether the rate, timing and cost of such approvals will adversely affect our product introduction or relaunch plans or results of operations. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Several types of state and federal laws, including anti-kickback and false claims statutes, have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. See Part I, Item 1—“Business—(c) Narrative Description of Business—Government Regulation—New Product Development and Approval—Anti-Kickback and False Claims Statutes” of this Report for more information. We endeavor to comply with the applicable fraud and abuse laws and to operate within related statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution. However, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration to individuals or entities in a position to prescribe, purchase, or recommend our products may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by civil and/or criminal sanctions, including substantial fines and civil monetary penalties, debarment from contracting with the government, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal and state health care programs, including Medicaid, Medicare and Veterans Administration health programs. Furthermore, the laws applicable to us are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretations and permit governmental authorities to exercise significant discretion. Any determination by a governmental authority that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business operations and financial results. Current global economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, financial position and results of operations. The global economy is currently undergoing a period of unprecedented volatility, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. This has led, and could further lead, to reduced consumer spending in the foreseeable future, and this may include spending on health care. Our sales could be negatively impacted if patients forego obtaining health care. In addition, reduced consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices. These conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, financial position and results of operations. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The market price of our securities has been and may continue to be volatile. The market prices of securities of companies engaged in pharmaceutical development and marketing activities historically have been highly volatile and the market price of our common stock has significantly declined. In addition, any or all of the following may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, among other factors: • our ability to continue as a going concern; • developments with respect to Makena® such as its current and future revenues and federal and state governmental actions with respect to Makena®, its sales, the coverage and reimbursement of Makena®, and sales of compounded alternatives and other alternative therapies; • developments with respect to our compliance with our debt obligations; • developments regarding our compliance with the consent decree and returning certain or many of our products to market, including loss of market share as a result of the suspension of shipments, and related costs; • developments regarding the relevant parties’ compliance with the plea agreement, the Divestiture Agreement or the Settlement Agreement; • the sale by Mr. M. Hermelin or the Hermelin family trusts of their ownership interests in the Company; • developments regarding our ability to raise additional capital; • our recent financing arrangements; • developments regarding private and government litigation and governmental inquiries; • our reporting of prices used by government agencies or third parties in setting reimbursement rates; • the introduction by other companies of generic or competing products; • the eligibility of our products for Medicaid, Medicare or other reimbursement; 45 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial products; • delays in the development or approval of products; • regulatory withdrawals of our products from the market; • developments or disputes concerning patent or other proprietary rights; • publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products marketed by us or products under development; • regulatory developments in both the U.S. and foreign countries; • publicity regarding actual or potential acquisitions; • public concern as to the safety of our drug technologies or products; • financial condition and results which are different from securities analysts’ forecasts; • economic and other external factors; and • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Future sales of common stock could adversely affect the market price of our Class A or Class B Common Stock. As of March 31, 2012, an aggregate of 2,640,906 shares of our Class A Common Stock and 20,000 shares of our Class B Common Stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options under our stock option plans, and an additional 3,016,250 shares of our Class A Common Stock and 0.0 shares of Class B Common Stock were reserved for the issuance of additional options and shares under these plans (the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock are referred to collectively in this Report as the “common stock”). In addition, as of March 31, 2012, 20,038,410 shares of Class A Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon exercise of the Warrants, 8,691,880 shares of Class A Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of $200.0 million principal amount of 2033 Notes, and 337,500 shares of our Class A Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of our outstanding 7% cumulative convertible preferred stock (“7% Convertible Preferred Stock”). In the Settlement Agreement, Mr. M. Hermelin agreed to dispose of approximately 1,800,000 shares which, if sold on the open market, could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our shares. In addition, we registered the resale of 9,950,000 shares of Class A Common Stock pursuant to a prospectus dated May 6, 2011. Future sales of our common stock and instruments convertible or exchangeable into our common stock and transactions involving equity derivatives relating to our common stock, or the perception that such sales or transactions could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The warrants contain a anti-dilution provision, which if the Company were to issue additional shares of its Class A Common Stock, it may trigger the anti-dilution provision of the warrants requiring the Company to issue more warrants. The non-standard anti-dilution provisions of the Warrants could increase the dilution experienced by our stockholders upon any future issuance of our common stock or common stock equivalents. The Warrants issued by the Company contain a non-standard anti-dilution provision which requires us, upon the issuance of our common stock or common stock equivalents, to issue additional warrants to the warrant holders so that the warrant holders are not diluted in the percentage of ownership from when the Warrants were originally issued. As a result, the stockholders could experience an increase in the dilution of our Company’s common stock if in the future the Company issues additional common stock or common stock equivalents. Our By-Laws require the unanimous approval by the members of the Board of certain acts or resolutions of the Board, which could limit our ability to issue equity securities or raise capital. Section 13 of Article III of our By-Laws provides that the following acts or resolutions of the Board or any committee of the Board require approval by a unanimous affirmative vote or unanimous written consent of the members of the Board then in office (other than any directors who affirmatively recuse themselves prior to the vote): • the approval of any agreement or contract, or the issuance of any security, which confers stockholder voting rights; • the increase in the number of the members of the Board, in accordance with Section 1 of Article III of the By-Laws, to a number which is in excess of eight; and • the approval of any contract, agreement or other document or instrument which contains any provision which: (1) imposes a penalty, acceleration of debt, purchase obligation or other adverse effect upon the corporation resulting from the election or appointment of any individual to the Board or the removal of any member of the Board; or (2) restricts, limits or dilutes the right of the stockholders to elect or appoint any individual to the Board or to remove any member of the Board. As a result, our ability to issue equity securities or to enter into agreements that include certain provisions related to a change of control may be limited, which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital and to meet our obligations as they become due. 46 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue preferred stock which could affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Our Amended Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. Holders of common stock will have no preemptive rights to subscribe for a pro rata portion of any preferred stock which may be issued. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. The possible impact on takeover could adversely affect the price of the common stock. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock, we may do so in the future. Our Amended Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects. Our Amended Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of common stock in two classes, Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Each share of Class A Common Stock entitles the holder to one-twentieth of one vote on all matters to be voted upon by stockholders, while each share of Class B Common Stock entitles the holder to one full vote on each matter considered by the stockholders. In addition, our Board, with a unanimous vote, has the authority to issue additional shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The existence of two classes of common stock with different voting rights and the ability of our Board to issue additional shares of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our voting stock. Other provisions of our Amended Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws also may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to our Company could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our Company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder” (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. In addition, our senior management is entitled to certain payments upon a change in control and certain of the stock options we have granted provide for the acceleration of vesting in the event of a change in control of our company. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock. Since 1980, we have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we do not plan to do so in the foreseeable future. No dividends may be paid on Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock unless all dividends on the 7% Convertible Preferred Stock have been declared and paid. The Indentures for our 2015 Notes prohibit us from paying dividends in most cases. Holders of one class of common stock are entitled to receive dividends, other than dividends payable in our capital stock, only if dividends in the same type of property are simultaneously declared with respect to the other class of common stock. When, and if, we declare and distribute dividends on the Class B Common Stock, other than dividends payable in our capital stock, the Class A Common Stock must receive a dividend in the amount of 120% of the dividend distributed on the Class B Common Stock. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 47 Table of Contents 