ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a variety of risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this document. Interest rates, consumer confidence, housing starts and the overall housing market, increased unemployment, tightening of the financial and consumer credit markets, downturns in the economy and other general economic factors that affect many other businesses are particularly significant to us because our principal products are consumer goods. A continued economic downturn could have a negative material impact on our sales, results of operations and cash flows. Over the past few years, negative changes in economic conditions, including high unemployment, volatile capital markets, decreases in the housing and real estate markets and tightening of consumer lending had a negative impact on our sales, results of operations and cash flows. A prolonged continuation of these conditions or a further economic downturn may cause our current and potential customers to delay their purchases or affect their ability to pay, which could have a negative long-term impact on our sales, results of operation and cash flows. Our current retail markets and others we may acquire in the future may not achieve the growth and profitability we anticipated when we acquired them. We could incur charges for the impairment of long-lived assets if we cannot meet our earnings expectations for these markets. We may remodel and relocate existing stores, as well as close underperforming stores. Profitability will depend on increased retail sales justifying the cost of remodeling and relocating these stores to support the lease carrying costs and our ability to reduce support costs as a percent of sales in advertising, selling and administration. In addition, while we are not currently planning on acquiring any new retail markets, we may acquire additional retail markets in the future, and if we do, they may be subject to many of the same risks. We may also incur additional costs upon acquiring new markets that could negatively impact our results of operations. Availability of foreign sourcing and economic uncertainty in countries outside of the United States in which we operate or purchase product from could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have operations in countries outside the United States, some of which are located in emerging markets. Long-term economic and political uncertainty in some of the countries in which we operate, such as Mexico and Thailand, could result in the disruption of markets and negatively affect our business. We have been increasing our offshore capabilities to provide flexibility in product offerings and pricing to meet competitive pressures. Our Casegoods Group is primarily an importer of products manufactured by foreign sources. In addition, our Upholstery Group purchases cut and sewn fabric and leather sets from foreign sourced vendors. Our sourcing partners may not be able to produce these goods in a timely fashion, or the quality of their product may be rejected by us, causing delays in shipping to our customers for casegoods and manufacturing disruptions in our upholstery plants due to not receiving rolled fabric, leather hides, and fabric and leather cut and sewn sets. The majority of our cut and sewn leather sets purchased in China are purchased from one supplier. Additionally we receive cut and sewn sets from our facility located in Mexico. All of our cut and sewn sets will be supplied from Mexico and China after we are fully transitioned to our Mexican facility. There are other risks that are inherent in our non-U.S. operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions, changes in laws and regulations, including import, export, labor and environmental laws, tariffs and trade barriers, monetary and fiscal policies, investments, taxation, and exchange controls. Additionally, unsettled political conditions, possible terrorist attacks, organized crime and public health concerns present a risk to our non-U.S. operations. All of these items could make it more difficult to service our customers or cause disruptions in our plants that could reduce our sales, earnings, or both in the future. Changes in regulations of our international operations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Because we have operations outside of the United States and because we sell product in various countries, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS government officials and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delays that could result in our inability to provide goods to our customers or could increase our costs, either of which could decrease our earnings. We use various types of wood, fabrics, leathers, upholstered filling material, steel, and other raw materials in manufacturing furniture. Because we are dependent on outside suppliers for our raw material needs, fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the raw materials we use could have a negative effect on our cost of sales and our ability to meet our customers’ demands. Inability to meet our customers’ demands could result in the loss of future sales, and we may not always be able to pass along price increases to our customers due to competitive and marketing pressures. Since we have a higher concentration in upholstery sales (73%) than most of our competitors, the effects of steel, polyurethane foam and fabric price increases or quantity shortages are more significant for our business than for most other furniture companies. About 68% of our polyurethane foam comes from one supplier, although this supplier has several facilities across the United States. A natural disaster or severe weather that affects this supplier could result in delays in shipments of polyurethane foam to our plants. We have attempted to minimize this risk by requiring a minimum of 60 days worth of production of the principal raw material to be stored at an off-site facility. A change in the financial condition of some of our domestic and foreign fabric suppliers could impede their ability to provide these products to us in a timely manner. In addition, upholstered furniture is highly fashion oriented, and if we are not able to acquire sufficient fabric variety, or if we are unable to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends, we may lose sales and have to sell excess inventory at reduced prices. This would lower our earnings as well as reduce our sales. Business failures of large dealers or customers could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. Although we have no customers who individually represent 4% or more of the annual sales of any of our segments, business failures or consolidation of large dealers or customers could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. Healthcare reform legislation could have an impact on our business. The recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Patient Act”) as well as other healthcare reform legislation being considered by Congress and state legislatures may have an impact on our business. While we are currently evaluating the effects of the Patient Act on our business, the impact on the healthcare industry is extensive and includes, among other things, having the federal government assume a greater role in the health care system, expanding healthcare coverage in the United States, mandating basic healthcare benefits and imposing regulations on businesses who provide or do not provide healthcare insurance to their employees. Our current assessment is that this legislation will most likely increase our employee healthcare-related costs. While the true cost of the recent healthcare legislation enacted will occur after 2013 due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare costs structure could have a significant impact on our business. Climate change legislation could have an impact on our results of operations. Climate change legislation has not yet been finalized or adopted, so any evaluation of its impact on our operations is speculative. We are a significant user of electricity, so any legislation that increases the operating costs of coal fired power plants will likely increase our operating expenses, although not disproportionately to our competitors or others in the industry. It is likely that cap and trade legislation regarding greenhouse gases will impose costs on carbon dioxide emissions from plants. Additionally, gasoline production will likely receive even greater cost allocations under cap and trade legislation. Increased costs associated with this type 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS of legislation could have an adverse impact on our cost of raw materials or could result in increase costs associated with maintaining or updating our manufacturing facilities. New laws or regulations resulting in steep increases in the cost of fuel, or new technologies resulting in steep decreases in such costs, would affect our costs and the cost to our customers purchasing from us. If our costs increased, we might not always be able to pass along such increases to our customers due to competitive and marketing pressures, but we would expect our competitors to be similarly affected. Failure to address product safety concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. If our product offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or our customers’ expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, experience increased costs and be exposed to legal risk and damages to our reputation. All of our suppliers must comply with applicable product safety laws and we are somewhat dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. We attempt to minimize this risk by performing our own independent testing of the products we buy from our suppliers. Events that give rise to actual or perceived product safety concerns could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. In addition, negative perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our customers to purchase furniture from a different source, resulting in lost sales, which could affect our results of operations. Inability to maintain and enhance our brand and respond to changes in our current and potential customers’ tastes and trends in a timely manner could adversely affect our business and operating results. The success of our business depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brands to grow our business by retaining current customers and attracting new customers. Additionally, because furniture product is extremely fashion oriented, changes in consumers taste and trends and the resultant change in our product mix could adversely impact our business and operating results. We attempt to minimize these risks by maintaining a strong advertising and marketing campaign promoting both our brands and our current product designs, styles, quality and prices. If these efforts are unsuccessful or we incur substantial costs in connection with these efforts, our business, operating results and financial or competitive condition could be adversely affected. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in both our primary and back-up systems could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our primary and back-up computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, natural disasters and usage errors by employees. Interruptions of our critical business computer systems and/or failure of our back-up systems could negatively impact our sales or result in longer production times. Additionally, if our critical business computer systems or our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 