ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a variety of risks. Interest rates, consumer confidence, housing starts and the overall housing market, increased unemployment, tightening of the financial and consumer credit markets, downturns in the economy and other general economic factors that affect many other businesses are particularly significant to us because our principal products are consumer goods. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may significantly affect our business. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we do not currently deem significant may also become important factors that affect us at a later date. The risks and uncertainties described below should be carefully considered with all other information provided in this document and our subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any of the following risks could significantly and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The slow pace of recovery from prolonged economic downturn, or any new downturn, could have a significant negative effect on our sales, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is subject to international, national and regional economic conditions. The global economy experienced a major recession beginning in 2008. Although we have seen some signs of improvement in the economy, the pace of improvement in housing, consumer confidence, unemployment and access to consumer credit has not returned to historic levels. In addition, repercussions from the ongoing European debt crisis could further damage the U.S. economy. While these factors are outside of our control, they directly affect our business. The slow pace of recovery or any new economic downturn could cause our current and potential customers to delay their purchases or affect their ability to pay, which could reduce our future sales, results of operations and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents Our current retail markets and other markets that we enter in the future may not achieve the growth and profitability we anticipate. We could incur charges for the impairment of long-lived assets if we cannot meet our earnings expectations for these markets. From time to time we acquire retail locations and related assets, remodel and relocate existing stores, and close underperforming stores. Our assets include goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets in connection with acquisitions. Profitability of acquired, remodeled, and relocated stores will depend on lease rates (for stores we lease) and retail sales and profitability justifying the costs of acquisition, remodeling, and relocation. If we cannot meet our sales or earnings expectations for these stores, we may incur charges for the impairment of long-lived assets, the impairment of goodwill, or the impairment of other indefinite-lived intangible assets. Availability of foreign sourcing and economic uncertainty in countries outside of the United States in which we operate or from which we purchase product could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have operations in countries outside the United States, some of which are located in emerging markets. Long-term economic and political uncertainty in some of the countries in which we operate, such as Mexico and Thailand, could result in the disruption of markets and negatively affect our business. Our Casegoods segment is primarily an importer of products manufactured by foreign sources, mainly in China and Vietnam, and our Upholstery segment purchases cut-and-sewn fabric and leather sets and some finished goods from Chinese and other foreign vendors. The majority of the cut-and-sewn leather kits that we purchase from China are from one supplier. Our sourcing partners may not be able to produce goods in a timely fashion or the quality of their product may lead us to reject it, causing disruptions in our domestic operations and delays in our shipments to our customers. There are other risks that are inherent in our non-U.S. operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions, changes in laws and regulations, including import, export, labor and environmental laws, tariffs and trade barriers, monetary and fiscal policies, investments, taxation, and exchange controls. Additionally, unsettled political conditions, possible terrorist attacks, organized crime and public health concerns present a risk to our non-U.S. operations. All of these items could make servicing our customers more difficult or cause disruptions in our plants that could reduce our sales, earnings, or both in the future. Changes in regulation of our international operations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Because we have operations outside of the United States and sell product in various countries, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. These laws include prohibitions on improper payments to government officials and restrictions on where we can do business, what products we can supply to certain countries, and what information we can provide to certain governments. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a significant adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delays that could result in our inability to provide goods to our customers or could increase our costs, either of which could decrease our earnings. In manufacturing furniture, we use various types of wood, fabrics, leathers, upholstered filling material, steel, and other raw materials. Because we are dependent on outside suppliers for our raw materials, fluctuations in their price, availability and quality could have a negative effect on our cost of sales and our ability to meet our customers’ demands. Competitive and marketing pressures may prevent us from passing along price increases to our customers, and the inability to meet our customers’ demands could cause us to lose sales. Since we have a higher concentration (70%) in upholstery sales, including motion furniture, than most of our competitors, the effects of steel, polyurethane foam, leather and fabric price increases or quantity shortages are more significant for our business than for most other publicly traded furniture companies. About 74% of our polyurethane foam comes from one supplier. This supplier has several facilities across the United States, but severe weather or natural disasters could result in delays in shipments of polyurethane foam to our plants. We have attempted to minimize this risk by requiring a commitment from our supplier that it would continue to supply us despite disruptions in its operations. 10 Table of Contents A change in the financial condition of some of our domestic and foreign fabric suppliers could impede their ability to provide their products to us in a timely manner. Upholstered furniture is fashion oriented, and if we are not able to acquire sufficient fabric variety, or if we are unable to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends, we may lose sales and have to sell excess inventory at reduced prices. Doing so would have a negative effect on our sales and earnings. Inability to maintain and enhance our brand and respond to changes in our current and potential customers’ tastes and trends in a timely manner could adversely affect our business and operating results. The success of our business depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brands to increase our business by retaining customers and attracting new ones. Because furniture product is fashion oriented, changes in consumers’ tastes and trends and the resultant change in our product mix could adversely affect our business and operating results. We attempt to minimize these risks by maintaining a strong advertising and marketing campaign promoting both our brands and our current product designs, styles, quality and prices. If these efforts are unsuccessful or require us to incur substantial costs, our business, operating results and financial or competitive condition could be adversely affected. We may be subject to product liability claims or undertake to recall one or more products, with a negative impact on our financial results and reputation. Millions of our products, sold over many years, are currently used by consumers. We may be named as a defendant in lawsuits instituted by persons allegedly injured while using one of our products. We have insurance that we believe is adequate to cover such claims, but we are self-insured for the first $1.5 million in liability and defense costs. Furthermore, such claims could damage our brands and reputation and negatively affect our operating results. In addition, regulation of consumer products has increased in recent years as the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission has acquired greater regulatory and enforcement power. Products that we have previously sold could be the subject of one or more recalls, resulting in related expenses and potential penalties, injury to our brands and reputation, and negative impact on our operating results. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business and that of certain independent dealers. Disruptions in both our primary and back-up systems could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our primary and back-up computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, natural disasters and errors by employees. Though losses arising from some of these issues would be covered by insurance, interruptions of our critical business computer systems or failure of our back-up systems could reduce our sales or result in longer production times. If our critical business computer systems or back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them. 11 Table of Contents In addition, we are implementing an enterprise resource planning or ERP system in our largest operating unit. The implementation is expected to occur in phases over the next several years. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities. ERP implementations also require transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system; any such transformation involves risks inherent in the conversion to a new computer system, including loss of information and potential disruption to our normal operations. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems and/or cost overruns during the ERP implementation process, or if the ERP system and the associated process changes do not give rise to the benefits that we expect. Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the ERP system as planned or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect the effectiveness of or cause delays in our ability to adequately assess our internal control over financial reporting. Significant delays in documenting, reviewing and testing our internal control could cause us to fail to comply with our SEC reporting obligations related to our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Loss of market share and other financial or operational difficulties due to competition would likely result in a decrease in our sales, earnings, and liquidity. The residential furniture industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with many other manufacturers and retailers, some of which offer widely advertised products, and others of which are large retail furniture dealers offering their own store-branded products. Competition in the residential furniture industry is based on quality, style of products, perceived value, price, service to the customer, promotional activities, and advertising. The highly competitive nature of the industry means we are constantly subject to the risk of losing market share, which would likely decrease our future sales, earnings and liquidity. In addition, due to the large number of competitors and their wide range of product offerings, we may not be able to differentiate our products (through styling, finish, and other construction techniques) from those of our competitors. These and other competitive pressures could result in a decrease in our sales, earnings, and liquidity. Our business and our reputation could be adversely affected by the failure to protect sensitive employee data or to comply with evolving regulations relating to our obligation to protect such data. Cyber-attacks designed to gain access to sensitive information by breaching security systems of large organizations leading to unauthorized release of confidential information have occurred recently at a number of major U.S. companies despite widespread recognition of the cyber-attack threat and improved data protection methods. While we have invested in the protection of our information technology and maintain what we believe are adequate security procedures and controls over financial and employee data, a breach in our systems that results in the unauthorized release of sensitive data could nonetheless occur, have a material adverse effect on our reputation, and lead to financial losses from remedial actions or potential liability, including for possible punitive damages. An electronic security breach resulting in the unauthorized release of sensitive data from our information systems could also materially increase the costs we already incur to protect against such risks. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 