Risk Factors In addition to the other risks identified herein, the Company's business is subject to the following risks: The Company Experiences Variable Operating Results: The Company's results of operations have varied and may continue to fluctuate significantly from period to period, including on a quarterly basis. Consequently, results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results for any future period, and fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the price of the Company's common stock. The Company's quarterly and annual results may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control. These factors include: - Changes in sales mix to customers - Changes in availability and cost of components - Volume of customer orders relative to capacity - Market demand and acceptance of our customers' products - Price erosion within the EMS marketplace - Capital equipment requirements needed to remain technologically competitive The Company's Customer Base is Concentrated: Significant reduction in sales to any of the Company's major customers or the loss of a major customer could have a material impact on the Company's operations. If the Company cannot replace completed, canceled or reduced orders, sales will decline, which could have a material impact on the results of operations. Although the Company believes its relationships with its large customers are good, the Company generally does not enter into long-term contracts. There can be no assurance that the Company will retain any or all of its large customers. This risk may be further complicated by pricing pressures and intense competition prevalent in our industry. There is Variability in the Requirements of the Company's Customers: The Company does not generally obtain long-term purchase contracts. The timing of purchase orders placed by the Company's customers is affected by a number of factors, including variation in demand for the customers' products, federal government funding, regulatory changes affecting customer industries, customer attempts to manage their inventory, changes in the customers' manufacturing strategies and customers' technical problems or issues. Many of these factors are outside the control of the Company. The Company and its Customers May Be Unable to Keep Current with the Industry's Technological Changes: The market for the Company's manufacturing services is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continuing product development. The future success of the Company's business will depend in large part upon its ability to maintain and enhance its technological capabilities, develop and market manufacturing services which meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Effective mid-2006 certain of the Company's customers must be in compliance with a new European standard, Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS Directive 2002-95-EC) for all products shipped to the European marketplace. The purpose of the directive is to restrict the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment and to contribute to the environmentally sound recovery and disposal of electrical and electronic equipment waste. In addition, electronic component manufacturers must produce electronic components which are lead-free. The Company's Pittsburgh operation has implemented lead-free wave solder and reflow systems. The Company relies on numerous third-party suppliers for components used in the Company's production process. Customers' specifications may require the Company to obtain components from a single source or a small number of suppliers. There is no assurance these suppliers will comply with RoHS. The inability to utilize any such s uppliers could increase the cost of components and have a material impact on the Company's results of operations. The Company Faces Intense Industry Competition and Downward Pricing Pressures: The EMS industry is highly fragmented and characterized by intense competition. Some of the Company's competitors have substantially greater manufacturing, purchasing, marketing and financial resources than the Company. Many of the Company's customers have the in-house capability to fulfill their material requirements. There can be no assurance that competition from existing or potential competitors will not have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. The introduction of lower priced competitive products, significant price reductions by the Company's competitors or significant pricing pressures from its customers could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Availability of Raw Components May Affect the Company's Operations: The Company relies on numerous third-party suppliers for components used in the Company's production process. Certain of these components are available only from single sources or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, a customer's specifications may require the Company to obtain components from a single source or a small number of suppliers. The loss of any such suppliers could have a material impact on the Company's results of operations. The Company could operate at a cost disadvantage compared to competitors who have greater direct buying power from suppliers. The Company is Dependent on Key Personnel: The Company depends significantly on its executive and plant management. The loss of the services of any of these key employees could have a material impact on the Company's business and results of operations. In addition, despite significant competition, continued growth and expansion of the Company's contract manufacturing business will require that it attract, motivate and retain additional skilled and experienced personnel. The inability to satisfy these requirements could have a negative impact on the Company's ability to remain competitive in the future. Failure to Comply with Environmental Regulations Could Subject the Company to Liability: The Company is subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during its manufacturing process. Any failure by the Company to comply with present or future regulations could subject it to future liabilities or the suspension of production which could have a material negative impact on the Company's results of operations. The Price of the Company's Stock is Volatile: The price of the Company's Common Stock historically has experienced significant volatility due to a number of factors including: fluctuations in the Company's revenue and earnings, the market's changing expectations for the Company's growth, overall equity market conditions, the limited float of the Company's Common Stock and other factors either related or unrelated to the Company's operations. Such fluctuations are expected to continue. 