ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a variety of risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this document. These risks are not the only ones we face. Interest rates, consumer confidence, housing starts, and other general economic factors that affect many other businesses are particularly significant to us because our principal products are consumer goods. Additional factors that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also could affect our business. Our recently acquired retail markets and others we may acquire in the future may not achieve the growth and profitability we anticipated when we acquired them. We could incur charges for impairment of goodwill if we cannot meet our earnings expectations for these markets. To make our recently acquired retail markets successful, we will have to remodel and relocate a significant number of existing stores, and we will need to add new stores to achieve sufficient market penetration. Profitability will depend on increased retail sales justifying the cost of these activities and on our ability to reduce support costs as a percent of sales in advertising, warehousing and administration. In addition, if we are unable to achieve these strategies, the goodwill we recorded when we acquired these markets could be impaired, which would result in a non-cash charge on our statement of operations. We may acquire additional retail markets in the future, and if we do, they may be subject to many of the same risks. Increased reliance on foreign sourcing of our products makes us more reliant on the capabilities of our foreign vendors and more vulnerable to potentially adverse actions by foreign governments. We have been increasing our offshore capabilities to provide flexibility in product offerings and pricing to meet competitive pressures. Our Casegoods Group has moved from primarily domestically manufactured to mainly foreign sourced products. In addition, our Upholstery Group has increased its purchases of cut and sewn fabric and leather sets from foreign sourced vendors. Our sourcing partners may not be able to produce these goods in a timely fashion, or the quality of their product may be rejected by us, causing delays in shipping to our customers for Casegoods and disruptions in our Upholstery plants due to not receiving the fabric and leather sets. Governments in the foreign countries where we do business may change their laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, and exchange controls. All these items could make it more difficult to service our customers or cause disruptions in our plants that could reduce our sales, earnings, or both in the future. 10 Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delays that could result in our inability to provide goods to our customers and could increase our costs, either of which could decrease our earnings. We use various types of wood, fabrics, leathers, upholstered filling material, steel, and other raw materials in manufacturing furniture. Because we are dependent on outside suppliers for our raw material needs, fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the raw materials we use in manufacturing residential furniture could have a negative effect on our cost of sales and our ability to meet our customers’ demands. Inability to meet our customers’ demands could result in the loss of future sales, and we may not always be able to pass along price increases to our customers due to competitive and marketing pressures. Since we have a higher concentration in our upholstery business (68%) than most of our competitors, the effects of steel and fabric price increases, shortages, or quality issues is more significant for our business than for other furniture companies. Specifically, the financial condition of some of our domestic and foreign fabric suppliers could impede their ability to provide these products to us in a timely matter. We have seen the number of domestic suppliers declining, and a majority of those larger suppliers that remain are experiencing financial difficulties. In addition, upholstered furniture is highly fashion oriented, and if we are not able to acquire sufficient fabric variety, or if we are unable to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends, we may lose sales and have to sell excess inventory at reduced prices. This would lower our earnings as well as reduce our sales. Consolidating variable interest entities into our financial statements may reduce our net income. Applicable accounting rules categorize some of our independent dealers that do not have sufficient equity to carry out their businesses without our financial support as “variable interest entities.” If we are considered the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity’s business activities, the rules require us to consolidate its assets, liabilities, and results of operations into our consolidated financial statements. Once consolidated, the rules require us to absorb all of the dealer’s net losses in excess of its equity and to recognize its net earnings, but only to the extent of recouping losses we previously recorded. Consolidating variable interest entities’ results into our financial statements tends to reduce our net income because these dealers often incur losses, and even if one of them does achieve net earnings, we can only recognize its earnings to the extent we previously recognized its losses. Although we have been working to reduce the number of these dealers, generally by buying their businesses or arranging for better capitalized operators to take over their territories, we are still consolidating four of them, including a new one added during fiscal 2006 as a result of its deteriorating financial condition. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to eliminate all of these consolidated dealers as quickly as we would like, and we may be required to consolidate additional dealers in the future if warranted by changes in their financial condition. Manufacturing realignments could result in a decrease in our near-term earnings. We continually review our domestic manufacturing operations and offshore (import) sourcing capabilities. As a result, we sometimes realign those operations and capabilities and institute cost savings programs. These programs can include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems and procedures. We also may shift certain products from domestic manufacturing to offshore sourcing. These realignments and cost savings programs generally involve some initial cost and can result in decreases in our near-term earnings until we achieve the expected cost reductions. We may not always accomplish these actions as quickly as anticipated, and we may not fully achieve the expected cost reductions. Business failures of large dealers or customers could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. Although we have no customers who individually represent 10% or more of the annual sales of any of our segments, business failures or consolidation of large dealers or customers could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. Also, we are either lessee on or guarantor of many leases of Company-brand stores operated by independent furniture dealers. Defaults by any of these dealers could result in our becoming responsible for payments under these leases thereby reducing our future earnings. 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 