Item 1A. RISK FACTORS From time to time, information we provide, statements by our associates or information included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission may contain forward-looking statements that are not historical facts. Those statements are “forward-looking” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, and our future performance, operating results, financial position and liquidity, are subject to a variety of factors that could materially affect results, including those described below. Any forward-looking statements made in this report or otherwise speak only as of the date of such statement, and we undertake no obligation to update such statements. Comparisons of results for current and any prior periods are not intended to express any future trends or indications of future performance, unless expressed as such, and should only be viewed as historical data. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below and all other information in this report. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Profitability of the PVC Pipe segment is dependent on the spread between selling price and cost per pound. The PVC Pipe segment’s profitability is dependent on the comparative spread between the selling price of PVC conduit and the raw material cost of PVC resin. Both of these prices and the profitability of the PVC Pipe segment have been historically volatile. The selling price of PVC conduit is adjusted often in response to conduit demand and inventory levels. PVC resin costs, which are adjusted monthly, are driven by vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) feedstock and energy (natural gas) costs along with demand and inventory levels. In the event of a significant increase in PVC resin capacity or a significant decrease in the demand for PVC resin, resulting in a period where there is an excess supply of PVC resin, our margins and profitability could be negatively impacted. While we generally attempt to pass along increased raw materials prices to our customers in the form of price increases, there may be a time delay between the increased raw materials prices and our ability to increase the price of our products, or we may be unable to increase the prices of our products due to pricing pressure or other factors. In either case, there may be a material adverse impact on our profitability. 5 Table of Contents We are dependent on limited suppliers, and our ability to produce products or otherwise meet customer needs could be adversely impacted if these suppliers were unable to meet our requirements in a timely manner. As of the beginning of 2006, we entered into a long-term agreement with one supplier to provide substantially all of our PVC pipe grade resin requirements. In addition, this supplier provides us with the majority of our PVC molding compound. Approximately 15-20% of our molded products, sold through the Carlon or Lamson Home Products’ business segments, are made by domestic outsource molders. There are a limited number of vendors capable of molding these PVC products, and molding facilities in 2006 were running at near capacity. Any significant accidents, labor disputes, fires, severe weather, floods or other difficulties encountered by our principal suppliers could result in production delays or the inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis. For example, in September and October of 2005, all five PVC resin suppliers declared “force majeure” (meaning acts of nature that allow the suppliers to avoid contractual obligations) due to the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and due to an accident at one resin manufacturing facility. This resulted in constrained resin supply and significantly higher resin and transit costs through the last four months of 2005. We maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts. Therefore, any interruption or delay in the supply of raw materials or products from our current principal suppliers, or our inability to obtain products from alternative sources at acceptable quality and price levels and within, a reasonable amount of time, could substantially impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers. As a result, our customers could cancel orders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Because we experience seasonal fluctuations in our sales, our quarterly results will fluctuate, and our annual performance will be affected by those fluctuations. We have generally had weaker demand for our products in the first and fourth quarters due to seasonal factors affecting our customers in the construction industry. If winter weather conditions occur early in the fourth quarter, we are not able to recover the loss of revenues in that quarter. If our revenue during any quarter were to fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, our share price could decline, perhaps significantly. The demand for our products is dependent on the strength of construction and telecommunications industries, which have been cyclical industries. A substantial percentage of our net sales are to customers in the construction and telecommunications industries. Each of those industries is cyclical in nature, influenced by a combination of factors, including, among other things, periods of economic growth and recession, prevailing interest rates and rate of construction of telecommunications infrastructure. These factors, in turn, affect our sales. Most of our products are sold into the various construction market segments. Commercial and industrial construction is the largest market serviced by us, (35-40% of net sales) and it has only recently begun to expand. Residential, including both new construction and home improvement activity, is the next largest end market (20-30% of net sales) and has seen progressive growth in the prior couple of years but declined in the last quarter of 2006. The telecommunications and utility infrastructure industry is another major market in which we participate (25-35% of net sales). Spending by our telecom customers plummeted in 2001, negatively impacting net sales and operating results for a few consecutive years. Currently, however, the business is being favorably impacted by the continued roll out of fiber-to-the-premise projects and upgrading of the overall utility infrastructure. Our business is dependent on continued capital spending by the construction and telecommunications industries, and an increase in interest rates could affect their capital spending and our revenue. 6 Table of Contents Loss of a significant facility or operating problems in our business may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The occurrence of material operating problems at our facilities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, both during and after the period of operational difficulties. While there is some overlap among our facilities in the products which each facility can produce, each facility produces a limited array of products, and our ability to supply certain products to our customers could be adversely affected if a facility were shut down as a result of a natural disaster or other cause. For example, if our Clinton, Iowa facility were shut down, our ability to produce outlet boxes would be substantially reduced. In addition, many of our products are subject to certification under industry standards promulgated by organizations such as Underwriters Laboratory, National Electrical Manufacturers Association, the American Society for Testing and Materials and Canadian Standards Association, and failure to produce products that consistently meet those standards would have an adverse impact on sales and scrap rates. Approximately 42% of our associates were covered by five collective bargaining agreements, all of which expire in the next 15 months. Although we believe our relations with the unions are good, we cannot assure you that these agreements will be renewed on similar terms or renegotiated on acceptable terms. Any prolonged work stoppages in one or more of our facilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on key customers. We rely on several key customers. For the year ended December 30, 2006, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 64% of our net sales. Many of our customers place orders for products on an as-needed basis and operate in cyclical industries, and as a result, their order levels have varied from period to period in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Due to competitive issues, we have lost business with key customers in the past and may again in the future. Customer orders are dependent upon their markets and may be subject to delays or cancellations. As a result of dependence on our key customers, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations if any of the following were to occur: • the loss of a key customer, in whole or in part; • the insolvency or bankruptcy of any key customer; • a declining market in which customers reduce orders or demand reduced prices; or • a strike or work stoppage at a key customer facility, which could affect both their suppliers and customers. There is also customer concentration within our segments. For example, over 75% of Lamson Home Products’ net sales are to its top three customers in the “Do-it-Yourself” home improvement market. These customers’ businesses are dependent on servicing them at high order fill rate levels. In addition, we support them with a significant amount of marketing support through customized packaging and point of purchase materials. We may not be able to increase or sustain our amount of retail shelf space or promotional resources or offer retailers price discounts, and as a result, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, economic downturns or recessions could force retailers to negotiate better terms of sale, which we may be unable to accept. Retailers may give higher priority to products other than ours, thus reducing their efforts to sell our products. We may encounter difficulties in expanding our business through strategic alliances and targeted acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we have pursued, and may continue to pursue, strategic alliances and targeted acquisition opportunities that we believe would complement our business. Any strategic alliances or targeted acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in strategic alliances and acquisitions of businesses. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any of our strategic alliances or acquisitions. For example, depending upon the nature, size and timing of future acquisitions, we may be required to obtain the consent of our senior lenders or raise additional financing, which may not be available to us upon acceptable terms. Further, we may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired 7 Table of Contents business with our existing businesses or recognize any expected advantages from any completed acquisition. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in entering into any strategic alliance or consummating any acquisition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 