Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules EX-21 SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT EX-23 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING EX-24 POWERS OF ATTORNEY EX-31.1 CERTIFICATION OF CEO EX-31.2 CERTIFICATION OF CFO EX-32.1 CERTIFICATION OF CEO EX-32.2 CERTIFICATION OF CFO 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS The Lamson & Sessions Co., an Ohio corporation, (the “Company” or “Lamson & Sessions”), founded in 1866, is a diversified manufacturer and distributor of a broad line of thermoplastic electrical, consumer, telecommunications and engineered sewer products for major domestic markets. The markets for thermoplastic electrical conduit, related fittings and accessories, wiring devices and sewer pipe include: the construction, utility and telecommunications industries, municipalities, other government agencies, and contractors; and “do-it-yourself” home remodelers. Principal Products and Markets The Company is engaged in the manufacture and distribution of a broad line of thermoplastic electrical, telecommunications and engineered sewer products. In addition, the Company distributes a wide variety of consumer electrical wiring devices, home security devices, wireless electrical and other wireless products. All of the Company’s thermoplastic electrical products compete with and serve as substitutes for similar metallic products. The Company’s thermoplastic electrical products offer several advantages over these other products. Specifically, non-metallic electrical and telecommunications conduit and related fittings and accessories are generally less expensive, lighter and easier to install than metallic products. They do not rust, corrode or conduct electricity. Thermoplastics, either polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or high density polyethylene (HDPE), are the materials of choice to protect fiber optic cable. Three business segments serve specific markets, each of which has unique product and marketing requirements. These markets are: Carlon – Industrial, Residential, Commercial, Telecommunications and Utility Construction: The major customers served are electrical contractors and distributors, original equipment manufacturers, electric power utilities, cable television (CATV), and telephone and telecommunications companies. The principal products sold by this segment include electrical and telecommunications raceway systems and a broad line of enclosures, electrical outlet boxes and fittings. Examples of the applications for the products included in this segment are multi-cell duct systems and HDPE conduit designed to protect underground fiber optic cables, allowing future cabling expansion and flexible conduit used inside buildings to protect communications cable. Lamson Home Products – Consumer: The major customers served are home centers and mass merchandisers for the “do-it-yourself” (DIY) home improvement market. The products included in this segment are electrical outlet boxes, liquidtight conduit, electrical fittings, door chimes and lighting controls. PVC Pipe: This business segment primarily supplies electrical, power and communications conduit to the electrical distribution, telecommunications, consumer, power utility and sewer markets. The electrical and telecommunications conduit is made from PVC resin based compound and is used to protect wire or fiber optic cables supporting the infrastructure of power or telecommunications systems. A breakdown of net sales as a percent of total net sales by major business segments for 2005, 2004 and 2003 is as follows: 2005 2004 2003 (Dollars in thousands) Carlon $ 223,500 45 % $ 183,800 48 % $ 154,090 45 % Lamson Home Products 105,039 21 % 86,510 22 % 81,514 24 % PVC Pipe 165,656 34 % 116,829 30 % 104,883 31 % $ 494,195 100 % $ 387,139 100 % $ 340,487 100 % See discussion of business segments’ results in Note L to the consolidated financial statements. 3 Table of Contents Competition Each of the three segments in which the Company presently operates is highly competitive based on service, price and quality. Most of the competitors are either national or smaller regional manufacturers who compete with limited product offerings. Unlike a majority of the Company’s competitors, the Company manufactures a broad line of thermoplastic products, complementary fittings and accessories. The Company believes that with its breadth of product line and investment in information technology infrastructure, it will continue to compete favorably. However, certain of the Company’s competitors have greater financial resources than the Company, which occasionally can adversely affect the Company through price competition strategies in selected products and markets. Distribution The Company distributes its products through a nationwide network of more than 106 manufacturers’ representatives and a direct field sales force of approximately 27. Raw Materials The Company is a large purchaser of pipe grade PVC and HDPE resins. The Company has entered into a long-term supply contract for PVC resin. PVC resin producers are operating at near capacity with no substantial net capacity additions planned until late 2007. Sustained demand and high energy costs are expected to support historically high resin costs for the foreseeable future. The Company has generally been able to pass through these raw material cost increases, depending on the end-market strength. HDPE is purchased by the Company from various sources and has historically been readily available. Patents and Trademarks The Company owns various patents, patent applications, licenses, trademarks and trademark applications relating to its products and processes. While the Company considers that, in the aggregate, its patents, licenses and trademarks are of importance in the operation of its business, it does not consider that any individual patent, license or trademark, or any technically-related group, is of such importance that termination would materially affect its business. Seasonal Factors Two of the Company’s three business segments experience moderate seasonality caused principally by a decrease in construction activity during the winter months. They are subject also to the economic cycles affecting the residential, commercial, industrial and telecommunications construction markets. The Company’s consumer products business segment is affected by existing home sales, consumer spending and consumer confidence. Major Customers Sales to Affiliated Distributors, a cooperative buying group reported within the Carlon and PVC Pipe segments not otherwise affiliated with the Company, totaled approximately 12.6% of consolidated net sales in 2005, 11.0% of consolidated net sales in 2004 and 14.0% of consolidated net sales in 2003. Sales to Home Depot, a customer of the Lamson Home Products segment not otherwise affiliated with the Company, totaled approximately 10.2% of consolidated net sales in 2003. Backlog In the Company’s three business segments, the order-to-delivery cycle ranges from several days to a few weeks. Therefore, the measurement of backlog is not a significant factor in the evaluation of the Company’s prospects. Research and Development The Company is engaged in product development programs, which concentrate on identifying, creating and introducing innovative applications for thermoplastic and wireless electrical products. The Company maintains a material testing lab and development center in its Cleveland, Ohio headquarters to facilitate this effort and 4 Table of Contents to improve manufacturing processes. The Company’s research and development expenditures totaled $1.9 million in 2005 and 2003 and $2.2 million in 2004. Environmental Regulations The Company believes that its current operations and its use of property, plant and equipment conform in all material respects to applicable environmental laws and regulations presently in effect. The Company has facilities at numerous geographic locations, which are subject to a range of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws has, and will, require expenditures on a continuing basis. See also Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Associates At December 31, 2005, the Company had 1,263 associates, 1,096 of whom were employed at the Company’s manufacturing facilities and distribution centers. The remainder of associates were primarily employed at the Company’s corporate headquarters and field sales offices. Foreign Operations The net sales, operating earnings and assets employed outside the United States are not significant. Export sales were approximately 3.5% of consolidated net sales in 2005, 4.6% of consolidated net sales in 2004, and 3.0% of consolidated net sales in 2003, respectively, and were made principally to customers in Canada and the Caribbean. The Company files annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The public can obtain copies of these materials by visiting the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549, by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330, or by accessing the SEC’s Web site at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable, after such materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC, the Company makes copies available to the public, free of charge, on or through its Web site at http://www.lamson-sessions.com. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS From time to time, information we provide, statements by our employees or information included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission may contain forward-looking statements that are not historical facts. Those statements are “forward-looking” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, and our future performance, operating results, financial position and liquidity, are subject to a variety of factors that could materially affect results, including those described below. Any forward-looking statements made in this report or otherwise speak only as of the date of such statement, and we undertake no obligation to update such statements. Comparisons of results for current and any prior periods are not intended to express any future trends or indications of future performance, unless expressed as such, and should only be viewed as historical data. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below and all other information in this report. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Profitability of the PVC Pipe segment is dependent on the spread between selling price and cost per pound. The PVC Pipe segment’s profitability is dependent on the comparative spread between the selling price of PVC conduit and the raw material cost of PVC resin. Both of these prices and the profitability of the PVC Pipe segment have been historically volatile. The selling price of PVC conduit is adjusted often in response to conduit demand and inventory levels. PVC resin costs, which are adjusted monthly, are driven by vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) feedstock and energy (natural gas) costs along with demand and inventory levels. In the event of a significant increase in PVC resin capacity or a significant decrease in the demand for PVC 5 Table of Contents resin, resulting in a period where there is an excess supply of PVC resin, our margins and profitability could be negatively impacted. While we generally attempt to pass along increased raw materials prices to our customers in the form of price increases, there may be a time delay between the increased raw materials prices and our ability to increase the price of our products, or we may be unable to increase the prices of our products due to pricing pressure or other factors. In either case, there may be a material adverse impact on our profitability. We are dependent on limited suppliers, and our ability to produce products or otherwise meet customer needs could be adversely impacted if these suppliers were unable to meet our requirements in a timely manner. Over the past several years, approximately 90-95% of the PVC pipe grade resin that we use has been supplied to us by two resin manufacturers. As of the beginning of 2006, we have entered into a long-term agreement with one of these suppliers to provide substantially all of our PVC resin requirements. In addition, this supplier provides us with the majority of our PVC molding compound. Approximately 12-15% of our molded products, sold through the Carlon or Lamson Home Products’ business segments, are made by domestic outsource molders. There are a limited number of vendors capable of molding these PVC products, and our molding facilities are run nearly at capacity. Any significant accidents, labor disputes, fires, severe weather, floods or other difficulties encountered by our principal suppliers could result in production delays or the inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis. For example, in September and October of 2005, all five PVC resin suppliers declared “force majeure” (meaning acts of nature that allow the suppliers to avoid contractual obligations) due to the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and due to an accident at one resin manufacturing facility. This resulted in constrained resin supply and significantly higher resin and transit costs through the last four months of 2005. We maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, and any interruption or delay in the supply of our raw materials or products from our current principal suppliers or our inability to obtain our products from alternative sources at acceptable quality and price levels and within a reasonable amount of time could substantially impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause our customers to cancel orders, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. During the last four months of 2005, the continued demand for conduit products, coupled with material shortages and cost increases resulting from the declaration of force majeure by our suppliers after the hurricanes, drove the selling price of our PVC conduit products up dramatically and led to higher than usual backlog and delivery lead times. Because we experience seasonal fluctuations in our sales, our quarterly results will fluctuate, and our annual performance will be affected by those fluctuations. Although demand and selling prices increased in the fourth quarter of 2005 primarily due to the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on the supply of PVC resin, we have generally had weaker demand for our products in the first and fourth quarters due to seasonal factors affecting our customers in the construction industry. If winter weather conditions occur early in the fourth quarter, we are not able to recover the loss of revenues in that quarter. If our revenue during any quarter were to fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, our share price could decline, perhaps significantly. The demand for our products is dependent on the strength of construction and telecommunications industries, which have been cyclical industries. A substantial number of our customers are in the construction and telecommunications industries. Each of those industries is cyclical in nature, influenced by a combination of factors, including, among other things, periods of economic growth and recession, strength and weakness of the United States dollar, prevailing interest rates and the rate of construction of telecommunications infrastructure. In addition, adverse weather conditions may affect construction activity, which is generally strongest in the late spring, summer and fall. These factors, in turn, affect our sales. 6 Table of Contents Most of our products are sold into the various construction market segments. Commercial and industrial construction is the largest market (35-40% of net sales) serviced by us, and it has only recently begun to expand. Residential, including both new construction and home improvement activity, is the next largest end market (25-30% of net sales) and has seen robust growth in the last couple of years but is starting to level off and decline slightly. The telecommunications infrastructure industry is another major market in which we participate (20-25% of net sales). Spending by our telecom customers plummeted in 2001, negatively impacting net sales and operating results for a few years. Our business is dependent on continued capital spending by the construction and telecommunications industries, and an increase in interest rates could affect their capital spending and our revenue. Loss of a significant facility or operating problems in our business may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The occurrence of material operating problems at our facilities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, both during and after the period of operational difficulties. While there is some overlap among our facilities in the products which each facility can produce, each facility produces a limited array of products, and our ability to supply certain products to our customers could be adversely affected if a facility were shut down as a result of a natural disaster or other cause. For example, if our Clinton, Iowa facility were shut down, our ability to produce outlet boxes would be substantially reduced. In addition, many of our products are subject to certification under industry standards promulgated by organizations such as Underwriters Laboratory, National Electrical Manufacturers Association, the American Society for Testing and Materials and Canadian Standards Association, and failure to produce products that consistently meet those standards would have an adverse impact on sales and scrap rates. Approximately 43% of our employees were covered by five collective bargaining agreements, the earliest of which expires in May 2007. Although we believe our relations with the unions are good, we cannot assure you that these agreements will be renewed on similar terms or renegotiated on acceptable terms. Any prolonged work stoppages in one or more of our facilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on key customers. We rely on several key customers. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 63% of our net sales. Many of our customers place orders for products on an as-needed basis and operate in cyclical industries, and as a result, their order levels have varied from period to period in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Due to competitive issues, we have lost business with key customers in the past and may again in the future. Customer orders are dependent upon their markets and may be subject to delays or cancellations. As a result of dependence on our key customers, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations if any of the following were to occur: • the loss of a key customer, in whole or in part; • the insolvency or bankruptcy of any key customer; • a declining market in which customers reduce order or demand reduced prices; or • a strike or work stoppage at a key customer facility, which could affect both their suppliers and customers. There is also customer concentration within our segments. For example, over 90% of Lamson Home Products’ net sales are to its top ten customers in the “Do-it-Yourself” home improvement market. These customers’ businesses are dependent on servicing them at high order fill rate levels. In addition, we support them with a significant amount of marketing support through customized packaging and point of purchase materials. We may not be able to increase or sustain our amount of retail shelf space or promotional resources or offer retailers price discounts, and as a result, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, economic downturns or recessions could force retailers to negotiate better terms of sale, which we may be unable to accept. Retailers may give higher priority to products other than ours, thus reducing their efforts to sell our products. 7 Table of Contents We may encounter difficulties in expanding our business through strategic alliances and targeted acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we have pursued, and may continue to pursue, strategic alliances and targeted acquisition opportunities that we believe would complement our business. Any strategic alliances or targeted acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in strategic alliances and acquisitions of businesses. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any of our strategic alliances or acquisitions. For example, depending upon the nature, size and timing of future acquisitions, we may be required to obtain the consent of our senior lenders or raise additional financing, which may not be available to us upon acceptable terms. Further, we may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired business with our existing businesses or recognize any expected advantages from any completed acquisition. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in entering into any strategic alliance or consummating any acquisition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 