Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to certain risks inherent in our business. The material risks and uncertainties that we believe could or do affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly. Competitive conditions within our markets could impact our sales volumes and operating margins. Competition within all of our markets is intense and is expected to remain so. Numerous competitors exist, many of which are larger than us in size. Global production overcapacity has also had an impact on operations within our Glassware and Candles segment. These competitive conditions could lead to significant downward pressure on the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Competitive considerations in the various product categories in which we sell are numerous and include price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. In order to protect existing market share or capture increased market share among our retail channels, we may decide to increase our spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation. The success of marketing, advertising and new product innovation is subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. As a result, any increased expenditures we make may not maintain or enhance market share and could result in lower profitability. Wal-Mart is our largest customer and the loss of, or a significant reduction in, its business could cause our sales and net income to decrease. Our net sales to Wal-Mart represented approximately 21% of consolidated net sales for the year ended June 30, 2012. We believe that our relationship with Wal-Mart is good, but we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain this relationship. In addition, changes in Wal-Mart’s general business model, such as reducing branded products or devoting more shelf space to private label products, could affect the profitability of our business with Wal-Mart even if we maintain a good relationship. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, this business could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Unfavorable changes in Wal-Mart’s financial condition or other disruptions to Wal-Mart, such as decreased consumer demand, could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Increases in the costs or limitations to the availability of raw materials we use to produce our products could adversely affect our business by increasing our costs to produce goods. We purchase a majority of our key raw materials on the open market. Our ability to avoid the adverse effects of a pronounced, sustained price increase in our raw materials is limited. However, we try to limit our exposure to price fluctuations for raw materials by occasionally entering into longer-term, fixed-price contracts for certain raw materials. Our principal raw-material needs include soybean oil, various dairy-related products, flour, paper and plastic packaging materials and wax. We have observed increased volatility in the costs of many of these raw materials in recent years. From 2007 through the first half of 2009, and again in 2011 and 2012, commodity markets for grain-based products, on which our food products depend, including dairy, soybean oil and flour products, rose significantly and were unusually volatile due to market concerns over grain-based fuel sources and worldwide demand. Further, fluctuating petroleum prices have impacted our costs of wax and inbound freight on all purchased materials. Disruptions in availability and increased prices of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The increase in the costs of raw materials used in our Specialty Foods 6 Table of Contents segment during 2007 to 2009 and 2011 through 2012 had an adverse impact on our operating income. We took measures to offset the impact of these higher costs, including the implementation of higher pricing. However, there is no assurance that we will not experience further increases in the costs of raw materials, and uncertainty exists as to our ability to implement offsetting measures. Such further increases, as well as an inability to effectively implement additional measures to offset higher costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A disruption of production at certain manufacturing facilities could result in an inability to provide adequate levels of customer service. Because we source certain products from single manufacturing sites, it is possible that we could experience a production disruption that results in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. Should we not be able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, a negative impact on our operations could result, including the potential for long-term loss of product placement with various customers. Manufacturing capacity constraints may have a material adverse effect on us. Our current manufacturing facilities may be inadequate to meet significantly increased demand for some of our food products. Our ability to increase our manufacturing capacity depends on many factors, including the availability of capital, steadily increasing consumer demand, tool delivery, construction lead-times, installation and qualification. A lack of sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet demand could cause our customer order times to increase and our product quality to decrease, which may negatively affect customer demand for our products and customer relations generally, and which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, operating our facilities at or near capacity may also negatively affect relations with our employees, which could result in higher employee turnover, labor disputes, and disruptions in our operations. We may be subject to product recalls or other claims for mislabeled, adulterated, contaminated, defective or spoiled food products or consumer products. Our operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding our products, our competitors’ products and our suppliers’ products. Under adverse circumstances, we may need to recall some of our products if they are, or have the potential to be, mislabeled, adulterated, contaminated, or contain a defect. Any of these circumstances could necessitate a recall due to a substantial product hazard, a need to change a product’s labeling or out of an abundance of caution to avoid any potential product hazards. In March 2010, we instituted a recall of our salad dressing and dip products as a result of a recall by an ingredient supplier. A pervasive product recall may have an adverse effect on our results of operations due to the costs of a recall or the related legal claims, the destruction of product inventory, lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time or a loss of goodwill. In addition, we may also be liable if any of our products causes bodily injury. Any claim or product recall could stem from or result in noncompliance with regulations of the Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission or state law. Such an action could force us to stop selling our products and create significant adverse publicity that could harm our credibility and decrease market acceptance of our products. If we are required to defend against a product liability or other claim, whether or not we are found liable under the claim, we could incur substantial costs, our reputation could suffer and our customers might substantially reduce their existing or future orders from us. In addition, either a significant product recall or a product liability claim involving a competitor’s products or products in markets related to those in which we compete could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products or our markets generally and could have a material impact on consumer demand, which could have an adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. 7 Table of Contents Increases in energy-related costs could negatively affect our business by increasing our costs to produce goods. We are subject to volatility in energy-related costs that affect the cost of producing our products. This is true in both our Glassware and Candles segment, in which we use large amounts of wax, and in our Specialty Foods segment, in which we utilize petroleum-derived packaging materials. Increases in these types of costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The availability and cost of transportation for our products is vital to our success, and the loss of availability or increase in the cost of transportation could have an unfavorable impact on our business and results of operations. Our ability to obtain adequate and reasonably priced methods of transportation to distribute our products is a key factor to our success. Our Specialty Foods segment requires the use of refrigerated trailers to ship a substantial portion of its products. Delays in transportation, especially in our Specialty Foods segment, where orders are generally filled in three to seven days following the receipt of the order, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, high fuel costs also negatively impact our financial results. We are often required to pay fuel surcharges to third-party transporters of our products due to high fuel costs. These fuel surcharges can be substantial and would increase our cost of goods sold. If we were unable to pass those high costs to our customers in the form of price increases, those high costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our inability to successfully renegotiate union contracts and any prolonged work stoppages or other business disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We believe that our labor relations with unionized employees are good, but our inability to negotiate the renewal of these contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any prolonged work stoppages could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also subject to risks of other business disruptions associated with our dependence on our production facilities and our distribution systems. Natural disasters, terrorist activity or other events could interrupt our production or distribution and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including the potential for long-term loss of product placement with various customers. There is no certainty regarding the amount of any future CDSOA distributions. The Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act of 2000 (“CDSOA”) provides for the distribution of monies collected by U.S. Customs from anti-dumping cases to qualifying domestic producers. Our reported CDSOA receipts totaled approximately $2.7 million, $14.4 million and $0.9 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. CDSOA remittances have related to certain candles being imported from the People’s Republic of China. CDSOA provisions for remittances apply only to duties collected on products imported prior to October 2007. Accordingly, we may receive some level of annual distributions for an undetermined period of years in the future as the monies collected that relate to entries filed prior to October 2007 are administratively finalized by U.S. Customs. Without further legislative action, we expect these distributions will eventually cease. Cases have been brought in U.S. courts challenging certain aspects of CDSOA. In two separate cases, the U.S. Court of International Trade (“CIT”) ruled that the procedure for determining recipients eligible to receive CDSOA distributions is unconstitutional. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed both CIT decisions and the U.S. Supreme Court did not hear either case. This allowed the appellate court decisions to stand, but other legal challenges to CDSOA are still pending. We are unable to determine, at this time, what the ultimate outcome of other litigation will be, and it is possible that further legal action, potential additional changes in the law and other factors could affect the amount of funds available for distribution, including funds relating to entries prior to October 2007. Accordingly, we cannot predict the amount of future distributions, if any, we may receive. Any change in CDSOA distributions could affect our earnings and cash flow. 8 Table of Contents Restructuring and impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We did not record any restructuring and impairment charges for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, but we did record such charges totaling approximately $2.5 million in 2010. Likewise, future events may occur that could adversely affect the reported value of our assets and require impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, or a material adverse change in our relationship with significant customers. We may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses. From time to time, we evaluate acquiring other businesses that would strategically fit within our various operations. If we are unable to consummate, successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue growth, synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, we may, from time to time, divest businesses that are less of a strategic fit within our portfolio or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. As a result, our profitability may be impacted by either gains or losses on the sales of those businesses or lost operating income or cash flows from those businesses. We may also not be able to divest businesses that are not core businesses or may not be able to do so on terms that are favorable to us. Further, a buyer’s inability to fulfill contractual obligations that were assigned as part of a business divestiture, including those relating to customer contracts, could lead to future financial loss on our part. In addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment or restructuring charges related to acquired or divested businesses, which may reduce our profitability and cash flows. These potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. A future increase in our indebtedness could adversely affect our profitability and operational flexibility. Although we do not have any outstanding debt at this time, we may incur indebtedness for a variety of reasons, including acquisitions or potential changes in capitalization that might require significant cash expenditures. A consequence of such indebtedness could be a reduction in the level of our profitability due to higher interest expense. Depending on the future extent and availability of our borrowings, we could also become more vulnerable to economic downturns, require curtailment of cash dividends or share repurchases, reduce or delay beneficial expansion or investment plans, or otherwise be unable to meet our obligations when due. For more information regarding our debt, see the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to Federal, state and local government regulations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Certain of our business operations are subject to regulation by various Federal, state and local government entities and agencies. As a producer of food products for human consumption, our operations are subject to stringent production, packaging, quality, labeling and distribution standards, including regulations mandated by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. We cannot predict if future regulation by various Federal, state and local governmental entities and agencies would adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, our business operations and the past and present ownership and operation of our properties are subject to extensive and changing Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. We cannot assure that environmental issues relating to presently known matters or identified sites or to other matters or sites will not require additional, currently unanticipated investigation, assessment or expenditures. Increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other 9 Table of Contents financial obligations for us. We use natural gas, diesel fuel, and electricity in the manufacture and distribution of our products. Legislation or regulations affecting these inputs could affect our profitability. In addition, climate change legislation or regulations could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience and may require us to make additional unplanned expenditures. We rely on the value of our brands, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing the awareness of our brands are increasing, which could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability. We rely on the success of our well-recognized brand names. If we are not successful in maintaining our brand recognition, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We intend to continue to devote resources to advertising, marketing and other brand-building efforts. The costs of maintaining our brands are increasing, and these increased costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We rely on the performance of major retailers, wholesalers, food brokers, distributors, foodservice customers and mass merchants for the success of our business, and should they perform poorly or give higher priority to other brands or products, our business could be adversely affected. We sell our products principally to retail outlets and wholesale distributors, including traditional supermarkets, mass merchants, warehouse clubs, wholesalers, foodservice distributors and direct accounts, specialty food distributors, nonfood outlets such as drug store chains and dollar stores. The replacement by or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers or chains, or our foodservice customers, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, many of our customers offer branded and private label products that compete directly with our products for retail shelf space and consumer purchases. Accordingly, there is a risk that these customers may give higher priority or promotional support to their own products or to the products of our competitors or discontinue the use of our products in favor of their own products or other competing products. If we are not successful in maintaining our retail shelf space or priority with these customers, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Inherent risks associated with our idle real property, such as our inability to sell it in a reasonable time period, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As a result of recent strategic alternative activities, we currently hold various parcels of real property that are not currently used in our operations. These facilities had a total net book value at June 30, 2012 of approximately $2.2 million. In addition, we may make further specific determinations in the future with respect to additional facilities or sell other operations while retaining the associated real property. These determinations could be announced at any time. Possible adverse consequences resulting from or related to these properties may include various accounting charges, disposition costs related to the potential sale of a property, costs associated with leasing obligations, and other normal or attendant risks and uncertainties associated with holding, leasing or selling real property. Although most of our properties have been subjected to periodic environmental assessments, these assessments may be limited in scope and may not include or identify all potential environmental liabilities or risks associated with any particular property. We cannot be certain that our environmental assessments have identified all potential environmental liabilities or that we will not incur material environmental liabilities in the future. If we do incur or discover any material environmental liabilities or potential environmental liabilities in the future, we may face significant remediation costs and find it difficult to sell or lease any affected properties. In addition, it may take months and possibly longer to sell these properties at a suitable price. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell a property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time 10 Table of Contents needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of any property. If we are unable to sell a property when we determine to do so, it could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance of our senior management team, several of which are long-serving employees with significant knowledge of our business model and operations. Should we not be able to find qualified replacements for any of these individuals if their services were no longer available, our ability to manage our operations or successfully execute our business strategy may be materially and adversely affected. Mr. Gerlach, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board of directors, has a significant ownership interest in our Company. As of June 30, 2012, Mr. Gerlach owned or controlled approximately 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Gerlach has significant influence on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock, including the election of directors. Mr. Gerlach’s voting power also may have the effect of discouraging transactions involving an actual or a potential change of control of our Company, regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices. The interests of Mr. Gerlach may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions limiting the ability of shareholders to raise matters at a meeting of shareholders without giving advance notice and provisions classifying our Board of Directors, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or influence our Board of Directors. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes of control or management, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Additionally, Ohio corporate law contains certain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. The Ohio Control Share Acquisition Act found in Chapter 1701 of the Ohio Revised Code provides that certain notice and informational filings and a special shareholder meeting and voting procedures must be followed prior to consummation of a proposed “control share acquisition,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. Assuming compliance with the prescribed notice and information filings, a proposed control share acquisition may be accomplished only if, at a special meeting of shareholders, the acquisition is approved by both a majority of the voting power represented at the meeting and a majority of the voting power remaining after excluding the combined voting power of the “interested shares,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. The Interested Shareholder Transactions Act found in Chapter 1704 of the Ohio Revised Code generally prohibits certain transactions, including mergers, majority share acquisitions and certain other control transactions, with an “interested shareholder,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code, for a three-year period after becoming an interested shareholder, unless our Board of Directors approved the initial acquisition. After the three-year waiting period, such a transaction may require additional approvals under this Act, including approval by two-thirds of our voting shares and a majority of our voting shares not owned by the interested shareholder. The application of these provisions of the Ohio Revised Code, or any similar anti-takeover law adopted in Ohio, could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Also, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,150,000 shares of Class B Voting Preferred Stock and 1,150,000 shares of Class C Nonvoting Preferred Stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any Class B Voting Preferred Stock and Class C Nonvoting Preferred Stock that may be issued in the future. The Company could use these rights to put in place a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” that could be used in connection with a bid or proposal of acquisition for an 11 Table of Contents inadequate price. Disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our ability to access capital in the future. We may need financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business, or refinance future indebtedness. Disruptions in global financial markets and banking systems may make credit and capital markets more difficult for companies to access, even for some companies with established revolving or other credit facilities. Any sustained weakness in the general economic conditions and/or financial markets in the U.S. or globally could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. From time to time, we may rely on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. Our access to funds under our revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. The obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. Long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity that may be needed for our businesses in the longer term. Such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. Continuation of these disruptions could increase interest rates and the cost of capital and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. We increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. For example, our sales group and our production and distribution facilities utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. Like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, cyber-based attacks, and other security issues. If we are unable to adequately protect against these vulnerabilities, our operations could be disrupted or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 Table of Contents 