Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to certain risks inherent in our business. The material risks and uncertainties that we believe affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly. Competitive conditions within our markets could impact our sales volumes and operating margins. Competition within all our markets is intense and is expected to remain so. Numerous competitors exist, many of which are larger in size. Global production overcapacity has also had an impact on operations within our Glassware and Candles segment. These competitive conditions could lead to significant downward pressure on the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Competitive considerations in the various product categories in which we sell are multifaceted and include price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. In order to protect existing market share or capture increased market share among our retail channels, we may decide to increase our spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation. The success of marketing, advertising and new product innovation is subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. As a result, any increased expenditures we make may not maintain or enhance market share and could result in lower profitability. Wal-Mart is our largest customer, and the loss of its business could cause our sales and net income to decrease. Our net sales to Wal-Mart represented approximately 20% of consolidated net sales for the year ended June 30, 2009. We believe that our relationship with Wal-Mart is good, but we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain this relationship. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, this business could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Unfavorable changes in Wal-Mart’s financial condition could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Increases in the costs or limitations to the availability of raw materials we use to produce our products could adversely affect our business by increasing our costs to produce goods. We purchase a majority of our key raw materials on the open market. Our ability to avoid the adverse effects of a pronounced, sustained price increase in our raw materials is limited. However, we try to limit our exposure to price fluctuations for raw materials by occasionally entering into longer-term, fixed-price contracts for certain raw materials. Our principal raw-material needs include soybean oil, various dairy-related products, flour, paper and plastic packaging materials and wax. We have observed increased volatility in the costs of many of these raw materials in recent years. From 2007 through the first half of 2009, commodity markets for grain-based products, on which our food products depend, including dairy, soybean oil and flour products, rose significantly and were unusually volatile due to concerns over grain-based fuel sources and worldwide demand. Further, fluctuating petroleum prices have impacted our costs of wax and inbound freight on all purchased materials. We anticipate that future sources of supply will generally be adequate for our needs, but disruptions in availability and increased prices could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The increase in the costs of raw materials used in our Specialty Foods segment during 2007 to 6 Table of Contents 2009 had an adverse impact on our operating income. We took measures to offset the impact of these higher costs, including the implementation of higher pricing. However, there is no assurance that we will not experience further increases in the costs of raw materials, and uncertainty exists as to our ability to implement offsetting measures. Such further increases, as well as an inability to effectively implement additional measures to offset higher costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A disruption of production at certain of our manufacturing facilities could result in an inability to provide adequate levels of customer service. Because we produce certain products at a single manufacturing site, it is possible that we could experience a production disruption that results in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. Should we not be able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, a negative impact on our operations could result. We may be subject to product recalls or product liability claims for misbranded, adulterated, contaminated or spoiled food products or defective consumer products. Our operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding our products and our competitors’ products. Under adverse circumstances, we may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated, misbranded, contaminated, or contain a defect, which could create a substantial product hazard or create an unreasonable risk of serious injury or death, and we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury. Any claim or product recall could result in noncompliance with regulations of the Food and Drug Administration or the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. Such an action could force us to stop selling our products and create significant adverse publicity that could harm our credibility and decrease market acceptance of our products. If we are required to defend against a product liability claim, whether or not we are found liable under the claim, we could incur substantial costs, our reputation could suffer and our customers might substantially reduce their existing or future orders from us. In addition, either a significant product recall or a product liability claim involving a competitor’s products or products in markets related to those in which we compete could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products or our markets generally and could have a material impact on consumer demand. For example, in fiscal 2007, media reports of contaminated produce products led to a decrease in consumer demand for bagged salads, which affected sales within our Specialty Foods segment. Increases in energy-related costs could negatively affect our business by increasing our costs to produce goods. We are subject to volatility in energy-related costs that affect the cost of producing our products. This is especially true in our Glassware and Candles segment, in which we use large amounts of wax, and in our Specialty Foods segment, in which we utilize petroleum-derived packaging materials. Increases in these types of costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The availability and cost of transportation for our products is vital to our success, and the loss of availability or increase in the cost of transportation could have an unfavorable impact on our business and results of operations. Our ability to obtain adequate and reasonably-priced methods of transportation to distribute our products is a key factor to our success. Our Specialty Foods segment requires the use of refrigerated trailers to ship many of its products. Delays in transportation, especially in our Specialty Foods segment, where orders are generally filled in three to seven days following the receipt of the order, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, high fuel costs also negatively impact our financial results. We are often required to pay fuel surcharges to third-party transporters of our products due to high fuel costs. These fuel surcharges can be substantial and would increase our cost of goods sold. If we were unable to pass 7 Table of Contents those high costs to our customers in the form of price increases, those high costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our inability to successfully renegotiate union contracts and any prolonged work stoppages or other business disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Two of our union contracts will be subject to renegotiation during fiscal 2010. We believe that our labor relations with unionized employees are good, but our inability to successfully negotiate the renewal of these contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any prolonged work stoppages could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also subject to risks of other business disruptions associated with our dependence on our production facilities and our distribution systems. Natural disasters, terrorist activity or other events could interrupt our production or distribution and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There is no certainty regarding the amount of future CDSOA distributions. The Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act of 2000 (“CDSOA”) provides for the distribution of monies collected by U.S. Customs from antidumping cases to qualifying domestic producers. Our reported CDSOA receipts totaled approximately $8.7 million, $2.5 million and $0.7 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These remittances related to certain candles being imported from the People’s Republic of China. Legislation was enacted in February 2006 to repeal the applicability of the CDSOA to duties collected on products imported after September 2007. However, all duties collected on an entry filed before October 1, 2007 will continue to be available for distribution under former section 1675(c) of the CDSOA. Accordingly, we may receive some level of annual distributions for an undetermined period of years in the future as the monies collected that relate to entries filed prior to October 2007 are administratively finalized by U.S. Customs. Without further legislative action, we expect these distributions will eventually cease. The uncertainties surrounding the legislative and administrative challenges have been compounded by cases brought in U.S. courts challenging the CDSOA. In two separate cases, the U.S. Court of International Trade (“CIT”) ruled that the procedure for determining recipients eligible to receive CDSOA distributions is unconstitutional. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed one of the CIT decisions in February 2009, but the case remains subject to further appeal. The second CIT case has been stayed pending resolution of this appeal. Other cases remain pending that challenge certain aspects of the CDSOA, any of which could affect the amount of funds available for distribution, including funds relating to entries prior to October 2007. The extent to which we may receive any future CDSOA distributions is subject to the legal challenges and uncertainties described above. Accordingly, we cannot predict the amount of future distributions, and it is possible that we may not receive any further distributions. Any reduction in CDSOA distributions could reduce our earnings and cash flow. Restructuring and impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We recorded restructuring and impairment charges totaling approximately $1.6 million, $1.3 million and $3.5 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Likewise, future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of our assets and require impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, or a material adverse change in our relationship with significant customers. We may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses. From time to time, we evaluate acquiring other businesses that would strategically fit within our various operations. If we are unable to consummate, successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize 8 Table of Contents contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, we may, from time to time, divest businesses that are less of a strategic fit within our portfolio or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. As a result, our profitability may be impacted by either gains or losses on the sales of those businesses or lost operating income or cash flows from those businesses. We may also not be able to divest businesses that are not core businesses or may not be able to do so on terms that are favorable to us. Further, a buyer’s inability to fulfill contractual obligations that were assigned as part of a business divestiture, including those relating to customer contracts, could lead to future financial loss on our part. In addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment or restructuring charges related to acquired or divested businesses, which may reduce our profitability and cash flows. These potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. Potential indemnification costs relating to business divestitures could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We made several business divestitures in 2008 and 2007. These divestitures were made pursuant to agreements that contain customary indemnification provisions, some of which run in favor of the purchasers. In the future, if any of these indemnification provisions are triggered, we may be required to make indemnification payments to these purchasers or other parties. Any potential payments that we may be required to make under our divestiture agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A future increase in our indebtedness could adversely affect our profitability and operational flexibility. For the first time in several years, we began incurring borrowings in 2007. These borrowings continued throughout 2008 and much of 2009. We may incur indebtedness in 2010, perhaps at higher average levels than in 2009. A consequence of such indebtedness could be a reduction in the level of our profitability due to higher interest expense. Depending on the future extent and availability of our borrowings, we could also become more vulnerable to economic downturns, require curtailment of cash dividends or share repurchases, reduce or delay beneficial expansion or investment plans, or otherwise be unable to meet our obligations when due. For more information regarding our debt, see the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to Federal, state and local government regulations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Certain of our business operations are subject to regulation by various Federal, state and local government entities and agencies. As a producer of food products for human consumption, our operations are subject to stringent production, packaging, quality, labeling and distribution standards, including regulations mandated by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. We cannot predict if future regulation by various Federal, state and local governmental entities and agencies would adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, our business operations and the past and present ownership and operation of our properties are subject to extensive and changing Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. We cannot assure that environmental issues relating to presently known matters or identified sites or to other matters or sites will not require additional, currently unanticipated investigation, assessment or expenditures. We rely on the value of our brands, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing the awareness of our brands are increasing, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. We rely on the success of our well-recognized brand names. We intend to maintain our strong brand recognition by continuing to devote resources to advertising, marketing and other brand-building efforts. If we are not successful in maintaining our brand recognition, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Inherent risks associated with our idle real property, such as our inability to sell it in a reasonable time period, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As a result of recent strategic alternative activities, we currently hold various parcels of real property that are not currently used in our operations. These facilities have a net book value at June 30, 2009 of approximately $2.6 million. In addition, we may make further specific determinations in the future with respect to additional facilities or sell other operations while retaining the associated real property. These determinations could be announced at any time. Possible adverse consequences resulting from or related to these properties may include various accounting charges, disposition costs related to the potential sale of a property, costs associated with leasing obligations, and other normal or attendant risks and uncertainties associated with holding, leasing or selling real property. Although most of our properties have been subjected to periodic environmental assessments, these assessments may be limited in scope and may not include or identify all potential environmental liabilities or risks associated with any particular property. We cannot be certain that our environmental assessments have identified all potential environmental liabilities or that we will not incur material environmental liabilities in the future. If we do incur or discover any material environmental liabilities or potential environmental liabilities in the future, we may face significant remediation costs and find it difficult to sell or lease any affected properties. In addition, if and as these properties become ready and available for sale, it may take months and possibly longer to sell these properties at a suitable price. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell a property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of any property. If we are unable to sell a property when we determine to do so, it could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. Mr. Gerlach, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board of directors, has a significant ownership interest in our Company. As of June 30, 2009, Mr. Gerlach owned or controlled approximately 29% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Gerlach has significant influence on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock, including the election of directors. Mr. Gerlach’s voting power also may have the effect of discouraging transactions involving an actual or a potential change of control of our Company, regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices. The interests of Mr. Gerlach may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan and initially declared a dividend distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock to shareholders of record as of April 20, 2000, including any transfer or new issuance of common shares of the Company. Under certain circumstances, if a person or group acquires 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock, holders of the rights (other than the person or group triggering their exercise) will be entitled to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Participating Preferred Share at a price of $185 per unit, subject to certain adjustments. The rights expire on April 20, 2010, unless extended by our Board of Directors. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, our rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding that acquisition. Further, certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions limiting the ability of shareholders to raise matters at a meeting of shareholders without giving advance notice and provisions classifying our Board of Directors, may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes of control or management of the Company, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. 10 Table of Contents Additionally, Ohio corporate law contains certain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. The Ohio Control Share Acquisition Act found in Chapter 1701 of the Ohio Revised Code provides that certain notice and informational filings and a special shareholder meeting and voting procedures must be followed prior to consummation of a proposed “control share acquisition,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. Assuming compliance with the prescribed notice and information filings, a proposed control share acquisition may be accomplished only if, at a special meeting of shareholders, the acquisition is approved by both a majority of the voting power of the Company represented at the meeting and a majority of the voting power remaining after excluding the combined voting power of the “interested shares,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. The Interested Shareholder Transactions Act found in Chapter 1704 of the Ohio Revised Code generally prohibits certain transactions, including mergers, majority share acquisitions and certain other control transactions, with an “interested shareholder,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code, for a three-year period after becoming an interested shareholder, unless our Board of Directors approved the initial acquisition. After the three-year waiting period, such a transaction may require additional approvals under this Act, including approval by two-thirds of all of the Company’s voting shares and a majority of the Company’s voting shares not owned by the interested shareholder. The application of these provisions of the Ohio Revised Code, or any similar anti-takeover law adopted in Ohio, could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 