Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties, including risks that we do not presently know of or currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business or results of operations. Price competition and industry consolidation could adversely impact our performance The sales of most of our products are subject to significant competition primarily through discounting and other price cutting techniques by competitors, many of whom are significantly larger and have greater resources than we do. In addition, there is a continuing consolidation by the major companies in the food industry, which could increase competition. Significant competition increases the possibility that we could lose one or more major customers, lose market share, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, which could have an adverse impact on our business or results of operations. Inability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences may result in decreased demand for products, which could have an adverse impact on our future growth and operating results Our success depends in part on our ability to respond to current market trends and to anticipate the tastes and dietary habits of consumers. Changes in consumer preferences, and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which could in turn cause our operating results to suffer. 3 Future product recalls or safety concerns could adversely impact our results of operations We may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged. We also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products causes injury or illness. A product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. We also could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products. Any business disruption due to natural disasters catastrophic events could adversely impact our financial performance If natural disasters or catastrophic events occur in the U.S. or other locations, such events may disrupt manufacturing, labor and other aspects of our business. In the event of such incidents, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. Increases in prices of primary ingredients and other commodities could cause our costs to increase Our cost of sales could be adversely impacted by changes in the cost of raw materials, principally vegetable oil, flour, sugar, potatoes, peanuts, peanut butter, other nuts, cheese and seasonings. While we often obtain substantial commitments for future delivery of certain raw materials and may engage in limited hedging to reduce the price risk of these raw materials, continuing long-term increases in the costs of raw materials, including cost increases due to the tightening of supply, could adversely impact our cost of sales. We could also be adversely impacted by changes in the cost of natural gas and other fuel. While we may engage in limited hedging to reduce the price risk associated with these costs, continuing long-term increases in the cost of natural gas and fuel could adversely impact our cost of sales and selling, marketing and delivery expenses. Food industry and regulatory factors could adversely affect our revenues and costs Food industry factors including obesity, nutritional concerns and diet trends could adversely affect our revenues and cost of sales. New or increased government regulation of the food industry could result in increased costs, restrictions on our methods of operation, and could adversely impact our results of operations. We are exposed to risks resulting from several large customers We have several large customers that account for a significant portion of our revenue. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 37% of our revenue during 2006 with our largest customer representing 18% of our 2006 revenue. The loss of one or more of our large customers could adversely affect our results of operations. These customers typically do not enter into long-term contracts, but make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand and customer service performance. If our revenue from one or more of these customers is significantly reduced, this reduction could adversely affect our business. If receivables from one or more of these customers become uncollectible, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. We are exposed to interest rate volatility, foreign exchange rate volatility and credit risks We are exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to variable rate credit facilities. We are exposed to foreign exchange rate volatility primarily through the operations of our Canadian subsidiary. This volatility may adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to certain customer credit risks related to the collection of our accounts receivable. 4 Acquisitions and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected In the normal course of business, we engage in discussions relating to possible acquisitions and divestitures. As a result of entering into such transactions, our financial results may differ from expectations in a given quarter, or over a long-term period. Our future operating results are dependent on our ability to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our existing operations. The inability to effectively integrate the acquired assets or effectively divest of operations, including our vending operations, could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. There are other factors not described above that could also cause actual results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 