Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s business. The business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties, including risks not presently known to the Company, or that it currently deems immaterial, may also impair the Company’s business and or operations. Price competition and industry consolidation could adversely impact the Company’s performance The sales of most of the Company’s products are subject to intense competition primarily through discounting and other price cutting techniques by competitors, many of whom are significantly larger and have greater resources than the Company. In addition, there is a continuing consolidation by the major companies in the food industry, which could increase competition. The intense competition increases the possibility that the Company could lose one or more major customers, lose market share, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business or financial results. 3 Increases in prices of primary ingredients and other commodities could cause the Company’s costs to increase The Company’s cost of sales can be adversely impacted by changes in the cost of raw materials, principally vegetable oil, flour, sugar, potatoes, peanuts, peanut butter, other nuts, cheese and seasonings. While the Company obtains substantial commitments for the future delivery of certain of its raw materials and may engage in limited hedging to reduce the price risk of these raw materials, continuing long-term increases in the costs of raw materials could adversely impact the Company’s cost of sales. The Company can also be adversely impacted by changes in the cost of natural gas and other fuel costs and may engage in limited hedging to reduce the price risk associated with these costs. Continuing long-term increases in the cost of natural gas and fuel costs could adversely impact the Company’s cost of sales and selling, marketing and delivery expenses. Food industry factors could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and costs Food industry factors including obesity and nutritional concerns, diet trends and the use of trans-fatty acids in food products could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and cost of sales. The inability to maintain effective sales and marketing strategies could adversely impact the Company’s performance The Company’s plans for long-term profitable sales growth depend on the ability of the Company to improve the effectiveness of its distribution systems, to develop and execute effective marketing strategies, to develop and introduce successful new products and to obtain increased distribution through significant trade channels such as mass merchandisers, convenience and grocery stores. Also, distribution of the Company’s products through vending machines remains an outlet for its products and a further decline in revenue from this source could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results. The Company is exposed to interest rate volatility, foreign exchange rate volatility and credit risks The Company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to variable rate debt facilities. The Company is exposed to foreign exchange rate volatility primarily through the operations of its Canadian subsidiary. In addition, the Company is exposed to certain credit risks related to the collection of its accounts receivable. Acquisitions and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected In the normal course of business, the Company engages in discussions relating to possible acquisitions and divestitures. As a result of potentially entering into such transactions, the Company’s financial results may differ from expectations in a given quarter, or over a long-term period. In addition, the Company’s future operating results are dependent on the Company’s ability to integrate the operations of recently acquired assets, as well as businesses that the Company may acquire in the future, with existing operations. The inability to effectively integrate the recently acquired assets could adversely impact the Company’s revenues and cost of operations. There are other factors not described above that could also cause actual results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company. 4 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 