Item 1A Risk Factors 3 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 8 Item 2 Properties 9 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 9 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 9 Item X Executive Officers of the Registrant 10 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 11 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 12 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 13 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 25 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 26 Schedule II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 54 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 55 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 57 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 58 Item 9A Disclosure Controls and Procedures 58 Item 9B Other Information 58 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 59 Signatures 64 Exhibit 12 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges Exhibit 21 Subsidiaries of Snyder’s-Lance, Inc. Exhibit 23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Exhibit 31.1 Section 302 Certification of the CEO Exhibit 31.2 Section 302 Certification of the CFO Exhibit 32 Section 906 Certification of the CEO and CFO Note: Items 10-14 are incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement and Item X of Part I. Table of Contents PART I Cautionary Information About Forward-Looking Statements This document includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include statements about our estimates, expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies for the future, and the assumptions underlying such statements. We use the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “forecasts,” “may,” “will,” “should,” and similar expressions to identify our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or our present expectations. Factors that could cause these differences include, but are not limited to, the factors set forth under Part I, Item 1A -Risk Factors. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which reflect the expectations of management only as of the time such statements are made. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1. Business General On December 6, 2010, Lance, Inc. (“Lance”) and Snyder’s of Hanover, Inc. (“Snyder’s”) completed a merger (“Merger”) to form Snyder’s-Lance, Inc., a North Carolina corporation. The Merger created a national snack food company with well-recognized brands, an expanded branded product portfolio, complementary manufacturing capabilities and a nationwide distribution network. Both companies have a successful history which dates back to the early 1900’s. Snyder’s-Lance, Inc. is headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. References to “Snyder’s-Lance,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to Snyder’s-Lance, Inc. and its subsidiaries, as the context requires. Products We manufacture, market and distribute a variety of snack food products, including pretzels, sandwich crackers, kettle chips, cookies, potato chips, tortilla chips, other salty snacks, sugar wafers, nuts, and restaurant style crackers. Additionally, we purchase certain cakes, meat snacks, and candy sold under our brands and partner brand products for resale in order to broaden our product offerings. Partner brands consist of other third-party brands that we sell through our distribution network. Products are packaged in various single-serve, multi-pack and family-size configurations. We sell and distribute branded and partner brand products to customers through our nationwide distribution network. Our branded products are principally sold under the Snyder’s of Hanover®, Lance®, Cape Cod®, Krunchers!®, Jays®, Tom’s®, Archway®, Grande®, Stella D’oro®, O-Ke-Doke®, EatSmart® and Padrinos® brands. Non-branded products include private brand (private label), partner brands, and contract manufacturing. Private brand products are sold to retailers and distributors using store brands or our own control brands, such as Brent & Sam’s®, Vista®, and Delicious®. We also contract with other branded food manufacturers to produce their products. For all years from 2009 to 2011, branded products have represented approximately 58% of total revenue and non-branded products have represented approximately 42%. 1 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Trademarks that are important to our business are protected by registration or other means in the United States and most other markets where the related products are sold. We own various registered trademarks for use with our branded products including LANCE, SNYDER’S OF HANOVER, CAPE COD POTATO CHIPS, KRUNCHERS!, TOM’S, JAYS, ARCHWAY, STELLA D’ORO, GRANDE, O-KE-DOKE, EATSMART, PADRINOS, TOASTCHEE, TOASTY, NEKOT, NIPCHEE, CHOC-O-LUNCH, VAN-O-LUNCH, GOLD-N-CHEES, CAPTAIN’S WAFERS and a variety of other marks and designs. We license trademarks, including HERSHEY’S, BUGLES, BASS PRO SHOP and TEXAS PETE, for limited use on certain products that are classified as branded products. We also own registered trademarks including VISTA, BRENT & SAM’S, and DELICIOUS that are used in connection with our private brand products. Distribution We distribute snack food products throughout the United States using a direct-store-delivery (“DSD”) network of approximately 3,000 distribution routes, many of which are serviced by independent business operators and others that are company-owned. During 2011, we began the process of converting the vast majority of our company-owned routes to an independent business operator structure in order to better position our distribution network to serve customers. Substantial progress has been made in the conversion and it is expected to be completed by the middle of 2012. We also ship products directly to customers using third-party carriers or our own transportation fleet predominantly throughout North America. Customers The customer base for our branded and partner brand products sold through our DSD network, distributors, and direct sales includes grocery/mass merchandisers, convenience stores, club stores, discount stores, food service establishments and various other customers including drug stores, schools, military and government facilities and “up and down the street” outlets such as recreational facilities, offices and other independent retailers. Private brand customers include grocery/mass merchandisers and discount stores. We also contract with other branded food manufacturers to manufacture their products. Substantially all of our revenues are from sales to customers in the United States. Revenue from our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries, was approximately 18% of our net revenue in 2011. The loss of this customer or a substantial portion of business with this customer could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Raw Materials The principal raw materials used to manufacture our products are flour, vegetable oil, sugar, potatoes, peanuts, other nuts, cheese, cocoa and seasonings. The principal packaging supplies used are flexible film, cartons, trays, boxes and bags. These raw materials and supplies are normally available in adequate quantities in the commercial market and are currently contracted up to twelve months in advance, depending on market conditions. Competition and Industry Our products are sold in highly competitive markets. Generally, we compete with manufacturers, some of whom have greater total revenues and resources than we do. The principal methods of competition are price, service, product quality, product offerings and distribution. The methods of competition and our competitive position vary according to the geographic location, the particular products and the activities of our competitors. 2 Table of Contents Environmental Matters Our operations in the United States and Canada are subject to various federal, state (or provincial) and local laws and regulations with respect to environmental matters. However, the Company was not a party to any material proceedings arising under these laws or regulations for the periods covered by this Form 10-K. We believe the Company is in compliance with all material environmental regulations affecting our facilities and operations and that continued compliance will not have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Employees At the beginning of February 2012, we had approximately 6,100 active employees in the United States and Canada. At the beginning of February 2011, we had approximately 7,000 active employees in the United States and Canada. The decrease in the number of employees was primarily due to the conversion to an independent business operator distribution network. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Other Matters Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, are available on our website free of charge. The website address is www.snyderslance.com. All required reports are made available on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties, including risks that we do not presently know of or currently deem insignificant, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our performance may be impacted by general economic conditions and an economic downturn. Recessionary pressures from an overall decline in U.S. economic activity could adversely impact our business and financial results. Economic uncertainty may reduce consumer spending in our sales channels and create a shift in consumer preference toward private label products. While our product portfolio contains both branded and private label offerings and mitigates certain exposure, shifts in consumer spending could result in increased pressure from competitors or customers to reduce the prices of some of our products and/or limit our ability to increase or maintain prices, which could lower our revenues and profitability. Instability in the financial markets may impact our ability or increase the cost to enter into new credit agreements in the future. Additionally, it may weaken the ability of our customers, suppliers, independent business operators, distributors, banks, insurance companies and other business partners to perform in the normal course of business, which could expose us to losses or disrupt the supply of inputs we rely upon to conduct our business. If one or more of our key business partners fail to perform as expected or contracted for any reason, our business could be negatively impacted. Volatility in the price or availability of the inputs we depend on, including raw materials, packaging, energy and labor, could adversely impact our financial results. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by changes in the cost or availability of raw materials and packaging. While we often obtain substantial commitments for future delivery of certain raw materials and may engage in limited hedging to reduce the price risk of these raw materials, continuing long-term increases in the costs of raw materials and packaging, including but not limited to cost increases due to the tightening of supply, could adversely affect our financial results. 3 Table of Contents Our transportation and logistics system is dependent upon gasoline and diesel fuel, and our manufacturing operations depend on natural gas. While we may enter into forward purchase contracts to reduce the price risk associated with some of these costs, continuing long-term changes in the cost or availability of these energy sources could adversely impact our financial results. Our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop a highly skilled workforce and talented management team. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for current positions could erode our competitiveness. In addition, our financial results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. We operate in a highly competitive food industry. Price competition and industry consolidation could adversely impact our financial results. The sales of most of our products are subject to significant competition primarily through discounting and other price cutting techniques by competitors, some of whom are significantly larger and have greater resources than we do. In addition, there is a continuing consolidation in the snack food industry, which could increase competition. Significant competition increases the possibility that we could lose one or more major customers, lose existing product authorizations at customer locations, lose market share and/or shelf space, increase expenditures or reduce selling prices, which could have an adverse impact on our business or financial results. Sales price increases initiated by us may negatively impact our financial results. Future price increases, such as those to offset increased ingredient costs, may reduce our overall sales volume, which could reduce total revenues and operating profit. Additionally, if market prices for certain ingredients decline significantly below our contracted prices, customer pressure to reduce prices could lower total revenues and operating profit. Changes in our top customer relationships could impact our revenues and profitability. We are exposed to risks resulting from several large customers that account for a significant portion of our revenue. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 48% of our revenue during 2011 with our largest customer representing approximately 18% of our 2011 revenue. The loss of one or more of our large customers could adversely affect our financial results. These customers typically make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, product offerings, consumer demand, distribution capabilities and customer service and generally do not enter into long-term contracts. In addition, these significant customers may re-evaluate or refine their business practices related to inventories, product displays, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if revenue from one or more of these customers is significantly reduced or if the cost of complying with customers’ demands is significant. If receivables from one or more of these customers become uncollectible, our financial results may be adversely impacted. We may not fully realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the Merger or do so within the anticipated timeframe. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend in large part upon how successfully we are able to integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner and on our ability to identify opportunities to meet our strategic objectives. The integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized in whole or in part. We may not be able to accomplish the integration process smoothly, successfully or on a timely basis. We may have to address potential differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies to accomplish successful integration. Employee uncertainty during the integration process may also disrupt the business. 4 Table of Contents Any inability of management to successfully and timely integrate the operations could have an adverse effect on the business and financial results. Even if the integration of the business operations is successful, there can be no assurance that the integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, growth and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration, or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. The loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain key employees. If certain key employees terminate their employment, it could negatively impact sales, marketing or development activities. Further, management’s attention might be diverted from operations to recruiting suitable replacements and our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for key employees or offer employment to potential replacements on acceptable terms. Efforts to execute and accomplish our strategic initiatives could adversely affect our financial results. We utilize several operating strategies to increase revenue and improve operating performance. If we are unsuccessful due to our execution, unplanned events, change management or unfavorable market conditions, our financial performance could be adversely affected. If we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures, or joint ventures, we may incur significant costs and may not be able to consummate the transactions or obtain financing. Further, the success of our acquisitions will depend on many factors, such as our ability to identify potential acquisition candidates, negotiate satisfactory purchase terms, obtain loans at satisfactory rates to fund acquisitions and successfully integrate and manage the growth from acquisitions. Integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate technologies and personnel of newly acquired companies involves risks. As a result, we may not be able to realize expected synergies or other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. Future acquisitions also could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our financial results. In the event we enter into strategic transactions or relationships, our financial results may differ from expectations. We may not be able to achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of potential acquisitions or divestitures. Concerns with the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients could cause consumers to avoid our products. We could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients. Negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and negatively impact our business and financial results. If our products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and we may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured or become sick. Product recalls or safety concerns could adversely impact our market share and financial results. We may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged. We also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products causes injury or illness. A product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could have an adverse effect on our operating and financial results. We may also lose customer confidence for our entire brand portfolio. Disruption of our supply chain or information technology systems could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Our ability to manufacture, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities or the supply and delivery of key inputs, such as raw materials, packaging, labor and energy, could impair our ability to conduct our business. Examples include, but are not limited to, weather, natural disasters, fires, terrorism, pandemics and strikes. Certain warehouses and manufacturing facilities are located in areas prone to tornadoes, hurricanes and floods. Any business disruption due to natural disasters or catastrophic events in these areas could adversely impact our business and financial results if not adequately mitigated. 5 Table of Contents Also, we increasingly rely on information technology systems to conduct our business. These systems may experience damage, failures, interruptions, errors, inefficiencies, attacks or suffer from fires or natural disasters, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results if not adequately mitigated by our security measures and disaster recovery plans. Furthermore, given our multiple information technology systems as a result of the Merger, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating data. In addition, we are currently in the process of integrating data which could provide additional security or business disruption risks which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. We are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. Any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. Our success depends on the ability to respond to consumer trends, including concerns of consumers regarding health and wellness, obesity, product attributes and ingredients. In addition, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, weather, or negative publicity resulting from regulatory action or litigation against companies in the snack food industry. Any of these changes may reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase our products and negatively impact our financial results. Our continued success also is dependent on product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products, and the effectiveness of advertising campaigns, marketing programs and product packaging. Although we devote significant resources to meet this goal, there can be no assurance as to the continued ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products, or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. Further, failure to successfully launch new products could decrease demand for existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. Our distribution network relies on a significant number of independent business operators, and such reliance could affect our ability to efficiently and profitably distribute and market products, maintain existing markets and expand business into other geographic markets. Our DSD network relies on a significant number of independent business operators for the sale and distribution of manufactured products and the products of other manufacturers for whom we provide distribution. Independent business operators often must make a commitment of capital or obtain financing to purchase their trucks, equipment and routes to conduct their business. Some financing arrangements made available to independent business operators require us to repurchase an independent business operator’s truck, equipment and/or route if the operator defaults on its loan. As a result, any downturn in an independent business operator’s business that affects the operator’s ability to pay the lender financing for the operator’s truck or route could harm our financial condition. The failure of any of our independent business operators to make timely payments could require write-offs of accounts receivable or increased provisions made against accounts receivable, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. 6 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain a network of independent business operators and distributors depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of these factors include: (i) the level of demand for the brands and products which are available in a particular distribution area; (ii) the ability to price products at levels competitive with those offered by other competing producers; and (iii) the ability to deliver products in the quantity and at the time ordered by independent business operators and customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet all or any of these factors in any of the current or prospective geographic areas of distribution. To the extent that any of these factors have an adverse effect on the relationships with independent business operators in a particular geographic area and, thus, limit our ability to maintain and expand the sales market, revenues and financial results may be adversely impacted. Identifying new independent business operators or distributors can be time-consuming and any resulting delay may be disruptive and costly to the business. There also is no assurance that we will be able to maintain current distribution relationships or establish and maintain successful relationships with independent business operators in new geographic distribution areas. There is the possibility that we will have to incur significant expenses to attract and maintain independent business operators in one or more geographic distribution areas in order to profitably expand geographic markets. The occurrence of any of these factors could result in a significant decrease in sales volume of our branded products and the products which we distribute for others and harm our business and financial results. The nature of our relationships with independent business operators is subject to periodic litigation. Continued success depends on the protection of our trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We maintain numerous trademarks and other intellectual property rights, which are important to our success and competitive position, and the loss of or our inability to enforce trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights could harm our business. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis. Efforts to establish and protect trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries may not allow for the protection of proprietary rights to the same extent as in the United States and other countries. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets could have an adverse impact on our financial results. The net carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities, and the net carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, customer relationships and other acquired intangibles. Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or at any time when events occur which could impact the value of our reporting units or our indefinite-lived intangibles. These values depend on a variety of factors, including the success of our business, market conditions, earnings growth and expected cash flows. Impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as increasing competitive pricing pressures, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital or lower than expected sales and profit growth rates. Significant and unanticipated changes could require a non-cash charge for impairment in a future period which may significantly affect our financial results in the period of such charge. New regulations or legislation could adversely affect our business and financial results. Food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state and other governmental agencies. New or increased government regulation of the food industry, including but not limited to areas related to food safety, chemical composition, production processes, traceability, product quality, packaging, labeling, school lunch guidelines, promotions, marketing, and advertising (particularly such communications that are directed toward children), product recalls, records, storage and distribution could adversely impact our results of operations by increasing production costs or restricting our methods of operation and distribution. These regulations may address food industry or society factors, such as obesity, nutritional and environmental concerns and diet trends. 7 Table of Contents We are exposed to interest and foreign currency exchange rate volatility, which could negatively impact our financial results. We are exposed to interest rate volatility since the interest rate associated with a portion of our debt is variable. While we mitigate a portion of this volatility by entering into interest rate swap agreements, those agreements could lock our interest rates above the market rates. We also are exposed to foreign exchange rate volatility primarily through the operations of our Canadian subsidiary. We mitigate a portion of the volatility impact on our results of operations by entering into foreign currency derivative contracts. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate the Canadian subsidiary’s financial statements at the then-applicable exchange rates. Consequently, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may impact our financial results, even if the value has not changed in the original currency. A significant portion of our outstanding shares of common stock is controlled by a few individuals, and their interests may conflict with those of other stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, Michael A. Warehime and his wife, Patricia A. Warehime, beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 16% of the outstanding common stock of the Company. Mr. and Mrs. Warehime serve as directors of the Company, with Mr. Warehime serving as the Chairman of the Board. As a result, the Warehimes may be able to exercise significant influence over the Company and certain matters requiring approval of its stockholders, including the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of the Company or its assets. This could limit the ability of other stockholders of the Company to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of the Company. In addition, the Warehimes may have actual or potential interests that diverge from the interests of the other stockholders of the Company. As a condition to the execution of the merger agreement, the Warehimes entered into a standstill agreement. The standstill agreement generally provides that, until the third anniversary of the Merger, the Warehimes will not (i) acquire any additional shares of the Company’s common stock, except upon the exercise of stock options, directly from a family member, pursuant to certain permitted acquisitions from grantor retained annuity trusts (“GRATs”), or upon dividend reinvestments; (ii) sell or transfer any of their shares of the Company’s stock, except to the same extent and in the same manner as an “affiliate” (as defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act) of the Company would be permitted to transfer such shares pursuant to Rule 144, to a family member for estate planning purposes, or pursuant to certain permitted transfers to GRATs or bona fide pledges as collateral for loans; or (iii) take any action contrary to maintaining certain aspects of the proposed governance structure for the Company through 2012, including plans for the reduction of the total number of directors over time and the re-election of the Snyder’s-Lance directors eligible for re-election in 2012. The standstill agreement further provides that at no time may the Warehimes’ aggregate beneficial ownership exceed 30% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock. Upon the expiration of the standstill agreement, all of the Warehimes’ shares will be available for sale in the public market, subject (to the extent the Warehimes remain affiliates of the Company) to volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144, and there will be no restrictions on the Warehimes’ ability to acquire additional shares of the Company’s stock or influence the governance structure of the Company. As such, upon expiration of the standstill agreement, the Warehimes may have the ability to obtain or exercise increased control of the Company. Sales by the Warehimes of their shares into the public market after the standstill agreement expires, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 8 Table of Contents 