Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties, including risks that we do not presently know of or currently deem insignificant, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our performance may be impacted by general economic conditions and an economic downturn. Recessionary pressures from an overall decline in U.S. economic activity could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Economic uncertainty may reduce consumer spending in our sales channels and create a shift in consumer preference toward private label products. While our product portfolio contains both branded and private label offerings and mitigates certain exposure, shifts in consumer spending could result in increased pressure from competitors or customers to reduce the prices of some of our products and/or limit our ability to increase or maintain prices, which could lower our overall revenues and profitability. Instability in the financial markets may impact our ability or increase the cost to enter into new credit agreements in the future. Additionally, it may weaken the ability of our customers, suppliers, distributors, banks, insurance companies and other business partners to perform in the normal course of business, which could expose us to losses or disrupt the supply of inputs we rely upon to conduct our business. If one or more of our key business partners fail to perform as expected or contracted for any reason, our business could be negatively impacted. 3 Table of Contents Volatility in the price or availability of the inputs we depend on, including raw materials, packaging, energy and labor, may adversely impact our profitability. Our profitability could be adversely impacted by changes in the cost or availability of raw materials and packaging. While we often obtain substantial commitments for future delivery of certain raw materials and may engage in limited hedging to reduce the price risk of these raw materials, continuing long-term increases in the costs of raw materials and packaging, including cost increases due to the tightening of supply, could adversely affect our profitability. Our transportation and logistics system is dependent upon gasoline and diesel fuel, and our manufacturing operations depend on natural gas. While we may enter into forward purchase contracts to reduce the price risk associated with some of these costs, continuing long-term changes in the cost or availability of natural gas and energy could adversely impact our financial performance. Our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop a highly skilled workforce and talented management team. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for current positions could erode our competitiveness. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. We operate in a highly competitive food industry. Price competition and industry consolidation could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. The sales of most of our products are subject to significant competition primarily through discounting and other price cutting techniques by competitors, many of whom are significantly larger and have greater resources than we do. In addition, there is a continuing consolidation by the major companies in the food industry, which could increase competition. Significant competition increases the possibility that we could lose one or more major customers, lose existing product offerings at customer locations, lose market share and/or shelf space, increase expenditures or reduce selling prices, which could have an adverse impact on our business or results of operations. Sales price increases initiated by us may negatively impact total revenue. Future price increases, such as those to offset increased ingredient costs, may reduce our overall sales volume, which could reduce total revenues and operating profit. Additionally, if market prices for certain ingredients decline significantly below our contracted prices, customer pressure to reduce prices could lower total revenues and operating profit. Changes in our top customer relationships could impact our revenues and profitability. We are exposed to risks resulting from several large customers that account for a significant portion of our revenue. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 40% of our revenue during 2009 with our largest customer representing 22% of our 2009 revenue. The loss of one or more of our large customers could adversely affect our results of operations. These customers typically make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand and customer service performance and generally do not enter into long-term contracts. In addition, these significant customers may re-evaluate or refine their business practices related to inventories, product displays, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if revenue from one or more of these customers is significantly reduced or if the cost of complying with customers’ demands is significant. If receivables from one or more of these customers become uncollectible, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. 4 Table of Contents Efforts to execute and accomplish our strategic initiatives could adversely affect our financial performance. We utilize several operating strategies to increase revenue and improve operating performance. If we are unsuccessful due to our execution, unplanned events, change management or unfavorable market conditions, our financial performance could be adversely affected. If we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures, or joint ventures, we may incur significant costs and may not be able to consummate the transactions. We may also be unsuccessful at integrating acquired businesses. Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect result of operations and financial condition. In the event we enter into strategic transactions or relationships, our financial results may differ from expectations. We may not be able to achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of integration or divestiture challenges not adequately considered at the time of the transaction. Concerns with the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients could cause consumers to avoid our products. We could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients. Negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products. If our products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured or become sick. Future product recalls or safety concerns could adversely impact our results of operations and market share. We may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged. We also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products causes injury or illness. A product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. Disruption of our supply chain or information technology systems could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our ability to make, move, and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities or the supply and delivery of key inputs, such as raw materials, packaging, labor and energy, could impair our ability to conduct our business. Examples include, but are not limited to, weather, natural disasters, fires, terrorism, pandemics, and strikes. We specifically have DSD routes and manufacturing facilities located in areas prone to tornadoes, hurricanes and floods. Any business disruption due to natural disasters or catastrophic events in these areas could adversely impact our financial performance if not adequately mitigated. Also, we increasingly rely on information technology systems to conduct our business. These systems may experience damage, failures, interruptions, errors, inefficiencies, attacks, or suffer from fires or natural disasters, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business if not adequately mitigated by our security measures and disaster recovery plans. 5 Table of Contents We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and trends, which may result in lower demand for our products. Inability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences may result in decreased demand for products, which could have an adverse impact on our future growth and operating results. Our success depends in part on our ability to respond to current market trends and to anticipate the tastes and dietary habits of consumers. Changes in consumer preferences, and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which could in turn cause our operating results to suffer. New regulations or legislation could adversely affect our business. Food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of governmental agencies. New or increased government regulation of the food industry, including areas related to production processes, product quality, packaging, labeling, marketing, storage and distribution, and labor unions could adversely impact our results of operations by increasing production costs or restricting our methods of operation and distribution. These regulations may address food industry or society factors, such as obesity, nutritional concerns and diet trends. Additionally, we have increased advertising for our products and could be the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising practices that may restrict our right to advertise our products. We are exposed to interest and foreign currency exchange rate volatility, which could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. We are exposed to interest rate volatility since the interest rate associated with our existing credit facilities is variable. While we mitigate a portion of this volatility by entering into interest rate swap agreements, those agreements could lock our interest rates above the market rates. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate volatility primarily through the operations of our Canadian subsidiary. We mitigate a portion of the volatility impact on our results of operations by entering into foreign currency derivative contracts. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate the Canadian subsidiary’s financial statements at the then-applicable exchange rates. Consequently, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may impact our consolidated financial statements, even if the value has not changed in the original currency. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 