Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties, including risks that we do not presently know of or currently deem insignificant, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our performance may be impacted by general economic conditions and an economic downturn. Recessionary pressures from an overall decline in U.S. economic activity could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Economic uncertainty may reduce consumer spending in our sales channels and create a shift in consumer preference toward private label products. While our product portfolio contains both branded and private label offerings and mitigates certain exposure, shifts in consumer spending could result in increased pressure from competitors or customers to reduce the prices of some of our products and/or limit our ability to increase or maintain prices, which could lower our overall revenues and profitability. Instability in the financial markets may impact our ability or increase the cost to enter into new credit agreements in the future. Additionally, it may weaken the ability of our customers, suppliers, independent operators, distributors, banks, insurance companies and other business partners to perform in the normal course of business, which could expose us to losses or disrupt the supply of inputs we rely upon to conduct our business. If one or more of our key business partners fail to perform as expected or contracted for any reason, our business could be negatively impacted. Volatility in the price or availability of the inputs we depend on, including raw materials, packaging, energy and labor, may adversely impact our profitability. Our profitability could be adversely impacted by changes in the cost or availability of raw materials and packaging. While we often obtain substantial commitments for future delivery of certain raw materials and may engage in limited hedging to reduce the price risk of these raw materials, continuing long-term increases in the costs of raw materials and packaging, including but not limited to cost increases due to the tightening of supply, could adversely affect our profitability. 3 Table of Contents Our transportation and logistics system is dependent upon gasoline and diesel fuel, and our manufacturing operations depend on natural gas. While we may enter into forward purchase contracts to reduce the price risk associated with some of these costs, continuing long-term changes in the cost or availability of natural gas and energy could adversely impact our financial performance. Our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop a highly skilled workforce and talented management team. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for current positions could erode our competitiveness. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. We operate in a highly competitive food industry. Price competition and industry consolidation could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. The sales of most of our products are subject to significant competition primarily through discounting and other price cutting techniques by competitors, many of whom are significantly larger and have greater resources than we do. In addition, there is a continuing consolidation by the major companies in the food industry, which could increase competition. Significant competition increases the possibility that we could lose one or more major customers, lose existing product offerings at customer locations, lose market share and/or shelf space, increase expenditures or reduce selling prices, which could have an adverse impact on our business or results of operations. Sales price increases initiated by us may negatively impact total revenue. Future price increases, such as those to offset increased ingredient costs, may reduce our overall sales volume, which could reduce total revenues and operating profit. Additionally, if market prices for certain ingredients decline significantly below our contracted prices, customer pressure to reduce prices could lower total revenues and operating profit. Changes in our top customer relationships could impact our revenues and profitability. We are exposed to risks resulting from several large customers that account for a significant portion of our revenue. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 41% of our revenue during 2010 with our largest customer representing 23% of our 2010 revenue. The loss of one or more of our large customers could adversely affect our results of operations. These customers typically make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand and customer service performance and generally do not enter into long-term contracts. In addition, these significant customers may re-evaluate or refine their business practices related to inventories, product displays, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. Our results of operations coul d be adversely affected if revenue from one or more of these customers is significantly reduced or if the cost of complying with customers’ demands is significant. If receivables from one or more of these customers become uncollectible, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. We may not fully realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the Merger or do so within the anticipated timeframe. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Merger of Lance and Snyder’s will depend in large part upon how successfully we are able to integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized in whole or in part. We may not be able to accomplish the integration process smoothly, successfully or on a timely basis. We may have to address potential differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies to accomplish successful integration. Employee uncertainty during the integration process may also disrupt the business. Any inability of management to successfully and timely integrate the operations could have an adverse effect on the business, results of operations and the price of our common stock. 4 Table of Contents Even if the integration of the business operations is successful, there can be no assurance that the integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, growth and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration, or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. The loss of key personnel as a result of the Merger could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The success of the Merger will depend in part on our ability to retain key employees and their continued employment. It is possible that employees may decide to terminate employment as a result of the Merger. If certain key employees terminate their employment, it could negatively impact sales, marketing or development activities. Further, management’s attention might be diverted from successfully integrating operations to recruiting suitable replacements and our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for key employees or offer employment to potential replacements on acceptable terms. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate business and investors’ views of the Company. Ensuring that there are adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Prior to the Merger, Snyder’s was a private company and not subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are in the process of evaluating internal controls as a result of the Merger. Implementing appropriate changes to internal controls of Snyder’s may take a significant period of time to complete, may distract directors, officers and employees, and may entail substantial costs in order to modify existing accounting systems. Further, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the internal controls, disclosure controls and information technology infrastructure. Efforts to assimilate and integrate the internal controls may not be effective in maintaining the adequacy of internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase operating costs and could materially impair the ability to operate the business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that internal controls are inadequate or that we may be unable to produce accurate financial statements may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Efforts to execute and accomplish our strategic initiatives could adversely affect our financial performance. We utilize several operating strategies to increase revenue and improve operating performance. If we are unsuccessful due to our execution, unplanned events, change management or unfavorable market conditions, our financial performance could be adversely affected. If we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures, or joint ventures, we may incur significant costs and may not be able to consummate the transactions or obtain financing. We also may be unsuccessful at integrating acquired businesses. Future acquisitions also could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. In the event we enter into strategic transactions or relationships, our financial results may differ from expectations. We may not be able to achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of integration or divestiture challenges not adequately considered at the time of the transaction. Concerns with the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients could cause consumers to avoid our products. We could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients. Negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products. 5 Table of Contents If our products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured or become sick. Product recalls or safety concerns could adversely impact our results of operations and market share. We may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged. We also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products causes injury or illness. A product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. We may also lose customer confidence for our entire brand portfolio. Additionally, impairment of the carrying value of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets could result in significantly lower operating results and net worth. Disruption of our supply chain or information technology systems could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our ability to manufacture, distribute, and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities or the supply and delivery of key inputs, such as raw materials, packaging, labor, and energy, could impair our ability to conduct our business. Examples include, but are not limited to, weather, natural disasters, fires, terrorism, pandemics, and strikes. We specifically have DSD routes and manufacturing facilities located in areas prone to tornadoes, hurricanes, and floods. Any business disruption due to natural disasters or catastrophic events in these areas could adversely impact our financial performance if not adequately mitigated. Also, we increasingly rely on information technology systems to conduct our business. These systems may experience damage, failures, interruptions, errors, inefficiencies, attacks, or suffer from fires or natural disasters, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business if not adequately mitigated by our security measures and disaster recovery plans. Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively. We are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. Any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. Our success depends on the ability to respond to consumer trends, including concerns of consumers regarding health and wellness, obesity, product attributes and ingredients. In addition, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population , changes in social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, weather, or negative publicity resulting from regulatory action or litigation against companies in the snack food industry. Any of these changes may reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase our products. Our continued success also is dependent on product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products, and the effectiveness of advertising campaigns, marketing programs and product packaging. Although we devote significant resources to meet this goal, there can be no assurance as to the continued ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products, or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. Further, failure to successfully launch new products could decrease demand for existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and oth er costs. 6 Table of Contents Our distribution network relies significantly on independent operators, and such reliance could affect our ability to efficiently and profitably distribute and market products, maintain existing markets and expand business into other geographic markets. Our DSD network relies on a significant number of independent operators for the sale and distribution of manufactured products and the products of other manufacturers for whom we provide distribution. Independent operators often must make a commitment of capital or obtain financing to purchase their trucks, equipment and routes to conduct their business. Some financing arrangements made available to independent operators require us to repurchase an independent operator’s truck, equipment and/or route at market value if the operator defaults on its loan. As a result, any downturn in an independent operator’s business that affects the operator’s ability to pay the lender financing for the operator’s truck or route could harm our financial condition. The failure of any of our independent operators to make timely payments could require write-offs of accounts receivable or increased provisions made against accounts receivable, either of which could adversely affect our financial co ndition. Our ability to maintain a DSD network and attract additional independent operators and distributors depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of these factors include: (i) the level of demand for the brands and products, which are available in a particular distribution area; (ii) the ability to price products at levels competitive with those offered by other competing producers; and (iii) the ability to deliver products in the quantity and at the time ordered by independent operators and customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet all or any of these factors in any of the current or prospective geographic areas of distribution. To the extent that any of these factors have a material adverse effect on the relationships with independent operators in a particular geographic area and, thus, limit the ability to maintain and expand the sales market, revenues and financial results may be adversely impacted. Identifying new independent operators or distributors can be time-consuming and any resulting delay may be disruptive and costly to the business. There also is no assurance that we will be able to maintain current distribution relationships or establish and maintain successful relationships with independent operators in new geographic distribution areas. There is the possibility that we will have to incur significant expenses to attract and maintain independent operators in one or more geographic distribution areas in order to profitably expand geographic markets. The occurrence of any of these factors could result in a significant decrease in sales volume of our branded products and the products which we distribute for others and materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. The nature of the relationsh ips with the independent operators is subject to ongoing litigation. Continued success depends on the protection of our trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We maintain numerous patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, which are important to our success and competitive position, and the loss of or our inability to enforce trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights could harm our business. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis. Efforts to establish and protect trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries may not allow for the protection of proprietary rights to the same extent as in the United States and othe r countries. 7 Table of Contents New regulations or legislation could adversely affect our business. Food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state and other governmental agencies. New or increased government regulation of the food industry, including but not limited to areas related to food safety, chemical composition, production processes, traceability, product quality, packaging, labeling, promotions, marketing, and advertising (particularly such communications that are directed toward children), product recalls, records, storage and distribution could adversely impact our results of operations by increasing production costs or restricting our methods of operation and distribution. These regulations may address food industry or society factors, such as obesity, nutritional and environmental concerns and diet trends. We are exposed to interest and foreign currency exchange rate volatility, which could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. We are exposed to interest rate volatility since the interest rate associated with a portion of our debt is variable. While we mitigate a portion of this volatility by entering into interest rate swap agreements, those agreements could lock our interest rates above the market rates. We also are exposed to foreign exchange rate volatility primarily through the operations of our Canadian subsidiary. We mitigate a portion of the volatility impact on our results of operations by entering into foreign currency derivative contracts. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate the Canadian subsidiary’s financial statements at the then-applicable exchange rates. Consequently, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may impact our consolidated financial statements, even if the value has not changed in the original currency. A significant portion of our outstanding shares of common stock is controlled by a few individuals, and their interests may conflict with those of other stockholders. As of January 1, 2011, Michael A. Warehime and his wife, Patricia A. Warehime, beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 19% of the outstanding common stock of the Company. Mr. and Mrs. Warehime serve as directors of the Company, with Mr. Warehime serving as the Chairman of the Board. As a result, the Warehimes may be able to exercise significant influence over the Company and certain matters requiring approval of its stockholders, including the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of the Company or its assets. This could limit the ability of other stockholders of the Company to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of the Company. In addition, the Warehimes may have actual or p otential interests that diverge from the interests of the other stockholders of the Company. 8 Table of Contents As a condition to the execution of the merger agreement, the Warehimes entered into a standstill agreement. The standstill agreement generally provides that, until the third anniversary of the Merger, the Warehimes will not (i) acquire any additional shares of the Company’s common stock, except upon the exercise of stock options, directly from a family member or upon dividend reinvestments; (ii) sell or transfer any of their shares of the Company’s stock, except to the same extent and in the same manner as an “affiliate” (as defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act) of the Company would be permitted to transfer such shares pursuant to Rule 144, or to a family member for estate planning purposes; or (iii) take any action contrary to maintaining certain aspects of the proposed governance structure for the Company through 2012, including plans for the reduction of the total number of directors over time and the re-election of the Lance directors eligible for re-election in 2011 and 2012. The standstill agreement further provides that at no time may the Warehimes’ aggregate beneficial ownership exceed 30% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock. Upon the expiration of the standstill agreement, all of the Warehimes’ shares will be available for sale in the public market, subject (to the extent the Warehimes remain affiliates of the Company) to volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144, and there will be no restrictions on the Warehimes’ ability to acquire additional shares of the Company’s stock or influence the governance structure of the Company. As such, upon expiration of the standstill agreement, the Warehimes may have the ability to obtain or exercise increased control of the Company. In addition, sales by the Warehimes of their shares into the public market after the standstill agreement expires, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the market price of the our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 