ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of its revenues could harm its business and prospects. The Company’s business is heavily dependent on sales to a small number of customers, which include agencies of the United States government. During fiscal 2006, two customers accounted for 56% of the Company’s total revenues. During fiscal 2005, three customers accounted for 43% of the Company’s total revenues and during fiscal 2004, two customers accounted for 34% of the Company’s total revenues. Certain of the Company’s government contracts may be terminated at the government’s discretion. The termination of the Company’s relationship with one or more of its significant customers or the reduction or delay of orders of its systems by these customers would substantially reduce the Company’s revenues, and its business and prospects may be harmed. The Company conducts its business worldwide, which exposes it to a number of difficulties in coordinating its international activities and dealing with multiple regulatory environments. The Company’s revenues to international customers, including foreign governments, accounted for approximately 14%, 15% and 12% of its net revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, March 31, 2005 and March 31, 2004, respectively, and a significant number of domestic customer orders require shipments to, and services provided in, overseas locations. In addition, the Company transacts business internationally with a number of its key suppliers. As a result of the Company’s worldwide business operations, it is subject to various risks, including: · international regulatory requirements and policy changes; · lengthy sales cycles; 10 · longer payment cycles by foreign customers; · difficulties in inventory management, accounts receivable collection and the management of distributors or representatives; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · geopolitical instability; · political and economic changes and disruptions; · favoritism towards local suppliers; · governmental currency controls; · interruption to transportation flow for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; and · tariff regulations. Although the Company’s international sales have been denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates that increase the relative value of the U.S. dollar may make it more difficult for the Company to compete with foreign manufacturers on price or otherwise have a material adverse effect on its sales and operating results. The Company’s lengthy sales cycle requires it to incur significant expenses with no assurance that it will generate revenue or recover such expenses. A substantial portion of the Company’s sales depends upon the decision of governmental agencies to upgrade or expand security at border crossing inspection sites, existing airports, seaports and other facilities. Accordingly, a portion of the Company’s product sales is subject to delays associated with the lengthy approval processes that often accompany such capital expenditures. During these approval periods, the Company expends significant financial and managerial resources in anticipation of future orders that may not occur. If the Company fails to receive an order after expending these resources, it may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to recover the costs incurred and its business and prospects may be harmed. The Company’s business is dependent upon governmental policies and appropriations. The Company’s largest customers are government agencies and demand for its products is dependent upon national priorities and governmental initiatives. These priorities and initiatives are subject to change from time to time in response to the economic and political environment. The Company is also exposed to the United States budget approval and appropriation cycle, which may be subject to significant and unpredictable delays. If demand for the Company’s products is reduced because of a change in economic or political conditions, or if there are delays in receiving governmental approvals and appropriations, sales of the Company’s products may be adversely affected, and its business and prospects may be harmed. Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for the Company’s products or increase its expenses. The Company competes in markets in which the Company or its customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as health and safety regulations. The Company develops, configures and markets its products to meet its customers’ needs created by these regulations. Any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for the Company’s products or increase its costs to comply with new regulations, both of which may adversely affect its operating results. 11 The Company’s reliance on only a limited number of suppliers for some key components for its products could harm its business and prospects. The Company relies on only a limited number of suppliers for some key components for its products. The Company’s reliance on limited supply sources reduces its control over timely delivery, price increases, reliability, and quality of critical components. Obtaining alternative sources of supply of these key components could involve significant delays and other costs, and may not be available to the Company on reasonable terms, if at all. If the Company changes any of its suppliers, the potential new supplier would be required to go through a qualification process, creating potential delays or reductions in product shipments. The failure of any supplier to provide quality and timely components at an acceptable price, or an interruption of supplies from such a supplier could result in lost or deferred sales, which would harm the Company’s business and prospects. Fluctuations in the Company’s quarterly operating results may cause its stock price to fluctuate. Given the nature of the markets in which the Company participates, it cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. A high proportion of the Company’s costs are fixed, due in part to its significant sales, research and development, and manufacturing costs. As a result of its fixed costs, small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect the Company’s operating results and stock price in a quarter. Factors that may affect the Company’s quarterly operating results and the market price of its common stock include: · demand for and market acceptance of its X-ray inspection systems; · lengthy sales cycles and the effect of large orders; · changes in political agendas or national priorities; · adverse changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which the Company does business; · political unrest in the regions where the Company transacts business; · adverse changes in industries on which the Company is particularly dependent; · competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices for its products; · delays or problems in the introduction of new products; · the Company’s competitors’ announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations; · variations in the Company’s product mix; · the timing and amount of the Company’s expenditures in anticipation of future sales; · increased costs of raw materials or supplies; and · changes in the volume or timing of product orders. The Company could incur substantial costs as a result of product liability claims and adverse publicity if its X-ray inspection systems fail to detect bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety. If the Company’s X-ray inspection systems fail to detect the presence of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety, the Company could be subject to product liability claims and negative publicity, which could result in increased costs, reduced sales, and a decline in the market price of the Company’s common stock. There are many factors beyond the Company’s control that could result in the failure of its products to detect the presence of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or 12 other threats to personal safety. Examples of these factors include operator error or misuse of or malfunction of its equipment. The failure of the Company’s systems to detect the presence of these dangerous materials may lead to personal injury, loss of life, and extensive property damage and may result in potential claims against the Company. The Company’s insurance may be insufficient to protect it from product liability claims. The Company’s product liability and umbrella liability insurance may be insufficient to protect it from product liability claims. Moreover, there is a risk that product liability insurance will not continue to be available to the Company at a reasonable cost, if at all. If liability claims exceed the Company’s current or available insurance coverage, its business and prospects may be harmed. Regardless of the adequacy of the Company’s product liability insurance protection, any significant claim may have an adverse affect on its industry and market reputation, leading to a substantial decrease in demand for its products and reduced revenues. The Company may not be able to fund its research and development activities. The Company generates funds for its research and development activities from operations, private sources and the government. The Company may be unable to generate the funds necessary to support its research and development activities if it does not generate sufficient funds from operations, other potential private sources, or the government. The Company may not successfully compete with other companies and research institutions for government funding and funding from other private sources. Additionally, government-funding priorities are subject to frequent changes. For example, in fiscal 2006 and 2005, the Company recorded $2,804,000 and $2,534,000, respectively, for government-sponsored research and development. There is no guarantee that the Company will receive funds for government-sponsored research in the future. If the Company is unable to fund its research and development activities through its operations or from outside sources, the Company may be unable to continue to innovate or bring its innovations to market on a timely or cost effective basis, or its innovations may be surpassed by other competitors or new technologies. The Company’s success depends on new product development. The Company’s continuing research and development program is designed to develop new products and to enhance and improve its current products. The Company plans to expend significant resources on the development of its new products. The successful development of its products and product enhancements is subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: · unanticipated delays; · access to capital; · budget overruns; · technical problems; and · other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of new products and product enhancements, including for example, changes requested or required by governmental and regulatory agencies. Given the uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction of X-ray inspection systems, the Company cannot assure that its product development efforts will be successful on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. The Company’s failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget would harm its business and prospects. 13 The Company’s success depends upon its ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements. The market for the Company’s products has been characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent product introductions and evolving industry standards and customer requirements. The Company believes that these trends will continue into the foreseeable future. The Company’s success will depend, in part, upon its ability to enhance its existing products, successfully develop new products that meet changing customer and regulatory requirements and gain market acceptance. If the Company fails to do so, its products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology, in which case its revenue and operating results would suffer. In developing any new product, the Company may be required to make a substantial investment before it can determine the commercial viability of the new product. If the Company fails to accurately foresee its customers’ needs and future activities, it may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. The Company may not be able to compete successfully. A number of companies have developed products that compete with the Company’s X-ray inspection products. Many of the Company’s competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than it does. Some of its competitors have more extensive research, marketing and manufacturing capabilities and greater technical and personnel resources than the Company does, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. The Company’s failure to compete successfully could decrease demand for its products or make its products obsolete. In the inspection systems market, competition is based primarily on the following factors: · product performance, functionality and quality; · price; · the overall costs of the system; · prior customer relationships; · technological capabilities of the product; · certification by government authorities; · local market presence; and · breadth of the sales and service organization. To remain competitive, the Company must develop new products and periodically enhance its existing products in a timely manner. The Company anticipates that it may have to adjust the prices of some of its products to stay competitive. In addition, new competitors may emerge, and entire product lines may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of these product lines. The Company’s business could be harmed if it is unable to protect its intellectual property. The Company relies primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, trademarks, licensing arrangements and confidentiality procedures to protect its technology. Despite its precautions, the steps the Company has taken to protect its technology may be inadequate. Existing trade secret, patent, trademark and copyright laws offer only limited protection. The Company’s patents could be invalidated or circumvented. The laws of some foreign countries in which the Company’s products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect its products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. This may make the possibility of piracy of the Company’s technology and products more likely. The Company cannot assure that the steps it has taken to protect its 14 intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of its technology. The Company’s business could be harmed if it is unable to protect its intellectual property. The Company’s business may be materially and adversely affected by infringement claims initiated by the Company or its competitors. Initiating or defending against the enforcement of the Company’s intellectual property rights may result in significant, protracted, and costly litigation. The Company has previously been involved in various litigations involving its intellectual property and has been successful in protecting such interests to date. However, the Company is currently involved in civil litigation filed by a competitor seeking a declaratory judgment that the competitor’s product did not infringe upon certain of the Company’s patents. The Company expects intellectual property disputes to be an ordinary part of its business for the foreseeable future. The Company may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of its intellectual property rights, or to establish the validity of its property rights. There can be no assurance that the Company will prevail in any such action. Litigation by or against the Company could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation results in a favorable outcome for the Company. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, the Company could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain processes, or obtain licenses for the infringing technology. If a license were required, the Company cannot assure that it would be able to obtain one on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The Company cannot assure that it will be successful in developing non-infringing technology or that the cost or time required to develop such technology will be reasonable. The Company’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain qualified management professionals. During the fiscal years 2005 and 2004, the CEO and certain other members of our senior management team left the Company. The Company subsequently recruited what it believes to be a highly qualified team of executives to join the Company. The Company’s future success will continue to depend in large measure upon the continued contributions of its senior management team and other key personnel. If we lose professionals or are unable to attract new talent, we will not be able to maintain our position in the market or grow our business. Future sales of the Company’s common stock by existing stockholders could depress the market price of the Company’s common stock. Substantially all of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction or further registration. Affiliates must sell all shares they own in compliance with the volume and other requirements of Rule 144, except for the holding period requirements. Nevertheless, sales of substantial amounts of common stock by the Company’s stockholders, or even the potential for such sales, may cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline and could impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through the sale of the Company’s equity securities. Existing external financing may not be available in the future. The Company may require additional capital to finance continuing operations. The Company cannot assure that operations will continue to be profitable, that it will generate levels of revenues and cash flows sufficient to fund operations, or, if necessary, that the Company will be able to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. Any existing financing arrangements may not be available or sufficient to meet the Company’s cash needs or may not be available in the future, or, if available, at a cost that the Company believes is reasonable. 15 The volatility of the Company’s stock price could adversely affect an investment in the Company’s common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. The Company believes that a variety of factors could cause the price of the Company’s common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: · announcements of developments related to the Company’s business; · quarterly fluctuations in the Company’s actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; · general conditions in the worldwide economy; · announcements of technological innovations; · new products or product enhancements by the Company or its competitors; · developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; and · developments in the Company’s relationships with its customers and suppliers. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of small capitalization and “high-tech” companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Provisions in the Company’s articles of organization and the Company’s shareholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for the Company’s business or common stock, and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock. Provisions in the Company’s articles of organization and the Company’s shareholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock. Specifically, the Company’s articles of organization authorize its Board of Directors to issue up to 100,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, to fix certain rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed upon any wholly unissued shares of preferred stock, to fix the number of shares constituting any such series, and to fix the designation of any such series, without further vote or action by its shareholders. The terms of any series of preferred stock, which may include priority claims to assets and dividends and special voting rights, could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock and thereby reduce the value of the Company’s common stock. The Company has no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. The Company has in place a shareholder rights plan, adopted in 1998, under which its stockholders are entitled to purchase shares of its preferred stock under certain circumstances. These circumstances include the purchase of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock by a person or group, or the announcement of a tender or exchange offer to acquire 15% or more of the outstanding common stock. The shareholder rights plan may have the effect of impeding or preventing certain types of transactions involving a change in control of the Company that could be beneficial to the stockholders. The Company does not plan to pay dividends on its common stock. The Company has not declared or paid a cash dividend on its common stock in recent years, and it does not expect to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company intends to retain all earnings, if any, in order to expand its operations. Investors should not rely on dividends from the common stock as a possible source of income. 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 