ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk exists that the Company’s past results may not be indicative of future results. A discussion of certain of the most significant of these risks follows. See also, “Forward-Looking Statements”, included herein. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document and others, both known and unknown) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. DEBT AND LIQUIDITY The Company has a substantial amount of debt, as more fully discussed (and certain capitalized terms used below defined) in Item 7, “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein. In February 2009, the Company completed a comprehensive restructuring of its Credit Agreement and a refinancing of its Pulitzer Notes debt, substantially enhancing its liquidity and operating flexibility until April 2012. The Company disclosed in its 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, in part, that the ability to extend or refinance the Pulitzer Notes as they become due and to delay the acceleration of debt maturities upon the expiration of existing waivers of default under both the Credit Agreement and the Pulitzer Notes, were factors that raised significant uncertainty about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The restructuring of the Credit Agreement and refinancing of the Pulitzer Notes resolved these issues. The Company expects to utilize a portion of its capacity under its revolving credit facility to fund part of 2010 principal payments required under the Credit Agreement. At September 27, 2009, the Company had $275,450,000 outstanding under the revolving credit facility, and after consideration of the 2009 Amendments and letters of credit, has approximately $83,000,000 available for future use. Including cash and restricted cash, the Company’s liquidity at September 27, 2009 totals $99,900,000. This liquidity amount excludes any future cash flows. Mandatory principal payments on debt in 2010 total $89,800,000. The Company expects all 2010 interest payments and a substantial amount of principal payments due in 2010 will be satisfied by the Company’s continuing cash flows. The Company’s ability to operate as a going concern is dependent on its ability to remain in compliance with debt covenants and to refinance or amend its debt agreements as they become due, or earlier if available liquidity is consumed. The Company is in compliance with its debt covenants at September 27, 2009. 11 Table of Contents There are numerous potential consequences under the Credit Agreement, and Guaranty Agreement and Note Agreement related to the Pulitzer Notes, if an Event of Default occurs and is not remedied. Many of those consequences are beyond the control of the Company, Pulitzer, and PD LLC, respectively. The occurrence of one or more Events of Default would give rise to the right of the Lenders or the Noteholders, or both of them, to exercise their remedies under the Credit Agreement and the Note and Guaranty Agreements, respectively, including, without limitation, the right to accelerate all outstanding debt and take actions authorized in such circumstances under applicable collateral security documents. The 2010 Redemption, as more fully discussed in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein, eliminated the potential requirement for a substantial cash outflow in April 2010. This event also substantially enhanced the Company’s liquidity. As of November 30, 2009, the full amount of the outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement is subject to floating interest rates as all interest rate swaps and collars expired or were terminated. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”, and Item 7A, “Interest Rates”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with the Company’s financing arrangements. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the United States economy entered a recession in the three months ended December 2007 and it is widely believed that certain elements of the economy, such as housing, were in decline before that time. 2009 and 2008 revenue, operating results and cash flows were significantly impacted by the recession. United States gross domestic product increased in the three months ended September 2009, potentially signaling the end of the current recession. The duration and depth of an economic recession in markets in which the Company operates may further reduce its future advertising and circulation revenue, operating results and cash flows. OPERATING REVENUE A significant portion of the Company’s revenue is derived from advertising. The demand for advertising is sensitive to the overall level of economic activity, both nationally and locally. Operating revenue in most categories decreased in 2009 and 2008 and may decrease in the future. Such decreases may not be offset by growth in advertising in other categories, such as online revenue which, until 2008, had been rising significantly. There can also be no assurance such online growth will resume. Historically, newspaper publishing has been viewed as a cost-effective method of delivering various forms of advertising. There can be no guarantee that this historical perception will guide future decisions on the part of advertisers. To the extent that advertisers shift advertising expenditures to other media outlets, including those on the Internet, the profitability of the Company’s business may continue to be impacted. The rates the Company charges for advertising are, in part, related to the size of the audience of its publications and websites. There is significant competition for readers and viewers from other media. The Company’s business may be adversely affected to the extent individuals decide to obtain news, entertainment, classified listings and local shopping information from Internet-based or other media, to the exclusion of the Company’s outlets for such information. Retail Advertising Many advertisers, including major retail store chains, automobile manufacturers and dealers, banks and telecommunications companies, have experienced significant merger and acquisition activity over the last several years, and some have gone out of business, effectively reducing the number of brand names under which the merged entities operate. The Company’s retail revenue is also being impacted by the current economic environment. For example, a decline in the housing market negatively impacts retail advertising related to home improvement, furniture and home electronics. Classified Advertising Classified advertising is the category that has been most significantly impacted by the current economic environment. In 2008, as the recession accelerated, employment classified advertising, including both print and online, declined as unemployment increased. This trend continued in 2009. 12 Table of Contents In 2009, 2008 and 2007, real estate classified advertising also suffered declines due primarily to cyclical issues, such as declining sale prices and an increase in unsold homes, affecting the residential real estate market nationally. In 2009 this decline accelerated due to the access to, and limitations on, residential mortgage funding. Automotive classified advertising revenue declined in 2009, 2008 and 2007, due to industry-wide issues affecting certain domestic auto manufacturers and the overall decline in economic conditions leading to the current recession. See Item 1, “Advertising”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with advertising revenue. Circulation Though the Company’s overall audience is growing, and its circulation unit results have outperformed the industry, circulation unit sales have nonetheless been declining fractionally for several years. The possibility exists that future circulation price increases may be delayed or reduced as a result of future declines in circulation unit sales, and that price decreases may be necessary to retain or grow circulation unit volume. The Company is reaching increasingly larger audiences through stable newspaper readership and rapid online audience growth. Nonetheless, declines in circulation unit sales could also adversely impact advertising revenue. See Item 1, “Audiences”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with circulation revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES The Company reduced operating expenses, excluding depreciation, amortization, impairment charges and other unusual costs, by $150,033,000, or 18.3%, in 2009, by $26,995,000, or 3.2% in 2008 and expects to reduce such operating expenses by an additional 6-7% in 2010. Such expense reductions are not expected to significantly impact the Company’s ability to deliver advertising and content to its customers. The results of future labor negotiations could affect the Company’s operating results. For additional information concerning the Company’s labor relations, see Item 1, “Employees”, included herein. Newsprint comprises a significant amount of the Company’s operating costs. See Item 1, “Newsprint” and Item 7A, “Commodities” included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with changes in newsprint costs. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS The Company has significant amounts of goodwill and identified intangible assets. In 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded substantial impairment charges to reduce the value of certain of these assets. Should general economic, market or business conditions continue to decline, and have a negative impact on the Company’s stock price or cash flows, the Company may be required to record additional impairment charges in the future. See Item 7, “Critical Accounting Policies”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with such assets. EQUITY CAPITAL As of December 24, 2008, the Company’s Common Stock traded at an average 30-day closing market price of less than $1 per share. Under the NYSE listing standards, if the Company’s Common Stock fails to maintain an adequate per share price and total market capitalization, the Company’s Common Stock could be removed from the NYSE and traded in the over the counter market. In December 2008, the NYSE notified the Company that it did not meet the NYSE continued listing standard due to its failure to maintain an adequate share price. Subsequent to that date, the NYSE temporarily suspended the standard through July 2009, and extended Lee’s six-month cure period until December 2009. In 13 Table of Contents September 2009, the NYSE notified Lee that its average share price had risen sufficiently to cure the share price deficiency. As of November 30, 2009, the Company’s Common Stock traded at an average 30-day closing market price of $3.64 per share and its equity market capitalization totaled approximately $162,000,000. All of these factors, along with volatile equity market conditions, could limit the Company’s ability to raise new equity capital in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 