ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk exists that our past results may not be indicative of future results. A discussion of our risk factors follows. See also, “Forward-Looking Statements”, included herein. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. DEBT AND LIQUIDITY We May Have Insufficient Earnings Or Liquidity To Meet Our Future Debt Obligations We have a substantial amount of debt, as discussed more fully (and certain capitalized terms used below defined) in Item 7,"Liquidity" and Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein. In February 2009, we completed a comprehensive restructuring of our then-existing credit agreement and a refinancing of our Pulitzer Notes debt, substantially enhancing our liquidity and operating flexibility. Since February 2009, we have satisfied all interest payments and substantially all principal payments due under our debt facilities with our cash flows. Substantially all of our debt was scheduled to mature in April 2012. We used a voluntary, prepackaged petition under the U. S. Bankruptcy Code to accomplish a comprehensive refinancing that extends the maturity to December 2015 for most of our debt, with the remainder maturing in April 2017. Interest expense has increased as a result of the refinancing and mandatory principal payments were reduced. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will 12depend on our ability to generate future cash flows. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. At December 14, 2012, the principal amount of our outstanding debt totals $919,100,000. This amount is already less than the $938,700,000 amount projected in the Plan in September 2013. Lower cash balances and asset sales have contributed to the improvement in debt repayment compared to the Plan. There are numerous potential consequences under the 1st Lien Agreement, 2nd Lien Agreement, and the Note and Guaranty Agreements related to the Pulitzer Notes, if an event of default, as defined, occurs and is not remedied. Many of those consequences are beyond our control. The occurrence of one or more events of default would give rise to the right of the 1st Lien Lenders, 2nd Lien Lenders and/or the Noteholders, to exercise their remedies under the 1st Lien Agreement, 2nd Lien Agreement, and the Note and Guaranty Agreements, respectively, including, without limitation, the right to accelerate all outstanding debt and take actions authorized in such circumstances under applicable collateral security documents. Our ability to operate as a going concern is dependent on our ability to remain in compliance with debt covenants and to refinance or amend our debt agreements as they become due, or earlier if available liquidity is consumed. We are in compliance with our debt covenants at September 30, 2012. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS General Economic Conditions May Continue To Impact Our Revenue And Operating Results According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the United States economy was in a recession from December 2007 until June 2009. It is widely believed that certain elements of the economy, such as housing, auto sales and employment, were in decline before December 2007, and have still not recovered to pre-recession levels. Revenue, operating results and cash flows were significantly impacted by the recession and its aftermath. The duration and depth of an economic recession, and pace of economic recovery, in markets in which we operate may influence our future results. OPERATING REVENUE Our Revenue May Not Return To Historical Levels A significant portion of our revenue is derived from advertising. The demand for advertising is sensitive to the overall level of economic activity, both locally and nationally. Operating revenue in most categories has decreased since 2007 and may decrease in the future. Such decreases may not be offset by growth in advertising in other categories, such as digital revenue which, until 2008, had been rising significantly and began to rise again in 2010. Historically, newspaper publishing has been viewed as a cost-effective method of delivering various forms of advertising. There can be no guarantee that this historical perception will guide future decisions on the part of advertisers. Web sites and applications for mobile devices distributing news and other content continue to gain popularity. As a result, audience attention and advertising spending are shifting and may continue to shift from traditional media to digital media. We expect that advertisers will allocate greater portions of their future budgets to digital media, which can offer more measurable returns than traditional print media through pay for performance and keyword-targeted advertising. If our efforts to adapt to evolving technological developments in the media industry are unsuccessful, or if we fail to correctly anticipate shifts in audience demand and digital media trends, we may be unable to provide the services, media and content that audiences and potential audiences in our markets prefer and we may be unable to provide the returns that our advertisers seek. To the extent that advertisers shift advertising expenditures to other media outlets, including those on the Internet, the profitability of our business may continue to be impacted. The rates we charge for advertising are, in part, related to the size of the audience of our publications and digital products. There is significant competition for readers and viewers from other media. Our business may be adversely affected to the extent individuals decide to obtain news, entertainment, classified listings and local shopping information from Internet-based or other media, to the exclusion of our outlets for such information. 13Retail Advertising Many advertisers, including major retail store chains, automobile manufacturers and dealers, banks and telecommunications companies, have experienced significant merger and acquisition activity over the last several years, and some have gone out of business, effectively reducing the number of brand names under which the merged entities operate. Our retail revenue is also being impacted by the pace of the current economic recovery. For example, a decline in the housing market negatively impacts retail advertising related to home improvement, furniture and home electronics. Classified Advertising Classified advertising is the category that has been most significantly impacted by changing advertising trends and the current economic environment. All categories of classified advertising have generally declined since 2007. Neither the unemployment rate, nor auto sales or the housing industry have, as yet, recovered to pre-recession levels. See Item 1, “Advertising”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with advertising revenue. Circulation Although our overall audience is stable and our circulation unit results have historically benchmarked favorably to national averages, as compiled by the AAM, circulation unit sales have nonetheless been declining for several years. The possibility exists that future circulation price increases may be difficult to accomplish as a result of future declines in circulation unit sales, and that price decreases may be necessary to retain or grow circulation unit volume. We are maintaining our share of audience through rapid digital audience growth and strong newspaper readership. In addition, as audience attention increasingly focuses on digital media, circulation of our newspapers may be adversely affected, which may decrease circulation revenue and exacerbate declines in print advertising. If we are not successful in growing our digital businesses to offset declines in revenues from our print products, our business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. See Item 1, “Audiences”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with circulation revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES We May Not Be Able To Reduce Future Expenses To Offset Potential Revenue Declines We reduced cash costs of our continuing operations (i.e., compensation, newsprint and ink, other operating expenses and workforce adjustments) by $256 million, or 32%, since 2007. Such expense reductions are not expected to significantly impact our ability to deliver advertising and content to our customers. As a result of the significant reductions of our cost structure we have achieved since 2007, future cost reductions will be more difficult to accomplish. Cash costs are expected to decrease 3.0-4.0% in 2013 from their 2012 level. Newsprint comprises a significant amount of our operating costs. See Item 1, “Newsprint” and Item 7A, “Commodities” included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with changes in newsprint costs. In addition, technological developments and any changes we make to our business may require significant capital investments. We may be limited in our ability to invest funds and resources in digital products, services or opportunities and we may incur costs of research and development in building and maintaining the necessary and continually evolving technology infrastructure. As a result, our digital business could suffer.We May Incur Additional Non-Cash Impairment ChargesWe have significant amounts of goodwill and identified intangible assets. In 2011, 2009 and 2008, we recorded substantial impairment charges to reduce the value of certain of these assets. Should general economic, market or business conditions decline, and have a negative impact on our stock price or projected future cash flows, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in the future. Such charges would not impact our cash flows or debt covenant compliance. See Item 7, “Critical Accounting Policies”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with such assets. 14Sustained Increases In Funding Requirements Of Our Pension And Postretirement Obligations May Reduce The Cash Available For Our BusinessOur pension and postretirement plans invest in a variety of equity and debt securities, many of which were affected by the disruption in the credit and capital markets in 2008 and thereafter. Future volatility and disruption in the stock and bond markets could cause further declines in the asset values of our pension plans. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine the liability for pension obligations could result in increased future contributions. If either occurs, we may need to make additional cash contributions above what is currently estimated, which could reduce the cash available for our business. Moreover, under the Pension Protection Act of 2006, continued losses of asset values may necessitate accelerated funding of pension plans in the future to meet minimum federal statutory requirements. Legislation passed in 2012 temporarily reduced funding requirements for our pension plans, but those payments will eventually need to be restored unless discount rates and/or plan assets increase. EQUITY CAPITAL A Decrease In Our Stock Price May Limit The Ability To Trade Our StockOr For The Company To Raise Equity CapitalAs of July 1, 2011, our Common Stock traded at an average 30-day closing market price of less than $1 per share. Under the NYSE listing standards, if our Common Stock fails to maintain an adequate per share price and total market capitalization of less than $50,000,000, our Common Stock could be removed from the NYSE and traded in the over the counter market. In July 2011, the NYSE first notified us that our Common Stock did not meet the NYSE continued listing standards due to the failure to maintain an adequate share price. Under the NYSE rules, our Common Stock is allowed to continue to be listed during a cure period. In February 2012, the NYSE notified the Company that it was again in compliance with the minimum closing price standard. At September 30, 2012, our average market capitalization also exceeds the $50,000,000 minimum required by the NYSE. However, the NYSE has not yet notified us that the Company has returned to compliance with the market capitalization standard. Continued listing is subject to ongoing reassessment by the NYSE. We are currently operating under an NYSE-approved plan and expect any issues to be successfully addressed within the time frames required under the NYSE rules. OTHERCybersecurity Risks Could Harm Our Ability To Operate EffectivelyIn 2012, 12.8% of our advertising revenue was obtained from advertising in our digital products and one of our businesses provides digital infrastructure and digital publishing services for other companies. We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including the misappropriation of personally identifiable information that we store and manage. We have preventive systems and processes in place to protect against the risk of cyber incidents. Prolonged system outages or a cyber incident that would be undetected for an extended period could reduce our digital revenue, increase our operating costs, disrupt our operations, harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data.We maintain insurance coverage against certain of such risks.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 