ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT OPERATING RESULTS Risk exists that the Company’s past results may not be indicative of future results. A discussion of certain of the most significant of these risks follows. See also, “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1, included herein. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document and others, both known and unknown) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. OPERATING REVENUE Advertising revenue in certain categories, or all categories, may decrease in the future. For example, print automotive classified advertising revenue declined in 2007 and 2006, primarily related to industry-wide issues affecting certain domestic auto manufacturers. Such decreases may not be offset by growth in advertising in other categories, such as online revenue, which has been rising significantly for the last several years. There can also be no assurance such online growth will continue. In addition, major retail store chains have experienced significant merger and acquisition activity over the last several years, effectively reducing the number of brand names under which the merged entities operate. In 2007, print real estate classified advertising also suffered declines due to cyclical issues affecting the residential real estate market nationally. Such reductions may negatively impact future amounts of advertising revenue generated by the Company and are currently impacting certain retail advertising customers, such as furniture, electronics and home improvement retailers. Circulation unit sales have been declining fractionally for several years. The possibility exists that future price increases may be delayed or reduced as a result of future declines in circulation unit sales. The Company is reaching an increasingly larger share of the market through rapid online growth, as well as through additional specialty and niche publications. See Item 1, “Advertising”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with advertising revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES The results of future labor negotiations could affect the Company’s operating results. For additional information concerning the Company’s labor relations, see Item 1, “Employees”, included herein. Newsprint comprises a significant amount of the Company’s operating costs. See Item 1, “Newsprint” and Item 7A, “Commodities” included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with changes in newsprint costs. INTEREST EXPENSE The Company has substantial debt, the majority of which is subject to changes in market interest rates. See Item 7A, “Interest Rates” included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with floating rate debt. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS The Company has significant amounts of goodwill and identified intangible assets. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with such assets. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 