ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk exists that our past results may not be indicative of future results. A discussion of our risk factors follows. See also, “Forward-Looking Statements”, included herein. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. DEBT AND LIQUIDITY We May Have Insufficient Earnings Or Liquidity To Meet Our Future Debt Obligations We have a substantial amount of debt, as discussed more fully (and certain capitalized terms used below defined) in Item 7,"Liquidity" and Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein. In February 2009, we completed a comprehensive restructuring of our then-existing credit agreement and a refinancing of our Pulitzer 11Notes debt, substantially enhancing our liquidity and operating flexibility. Since February 2009, we have satisfied all interest payments and substantially all principal payments due under our debt facilities with our cash flows. Substantially all of our debt was scheduled to mature in April 2012. We used a voluntary, prepackaged petition under the U. S. Bankruptcy Code to accomplish a comprehensive refinancing that extended the maturity to December 2015 for most of our debt, with the remainder maturing in April 2017. Interest expense has increased as a result of the refinancing and mandatory principal payments were reduced. In May 2013, we again refinanced the remaining balance of the Pulitzer Notes (the "New Pulitzer Notes") with BH Finance LLC ("Berkshire"),a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate future cash flows. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. At September 29, 2013, after consideration of letters of credit, we have approximately $29,942,000 available for future use under our revolving credit facility. Including cash, our liquidity at September 29, 2013 totals $47,504,000. This liquidity amount excludes any future cash flows. Our unlevered free cash flow has been stable for the last five years and has exceeded $152,000,000 in each year from 2009 through 2013 but there can be no assurance that such stability will continue. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in Item 7, included herein. We expect all interest and principal payments due in the next twelve months will be satisfied by our continuing cash flows, which will allow us to maintain an adequate level of liquidity. At September 29, 2013, the principal amount of our outstanding debt totals $847,500,000, achieving the September 2015 target level in Lee's reorganization plan two years early. Lower cash balances and asset sales have contributed to the improvement in debt repayment compared to the Plan. At September 29, 2013, the principal amount of our debt, net of cash, is 4.8 times our 2013 Adjusted EBITDA, compared to a ratio of 5.3 at September 30, 2012.We expect to refinance amounts outstanding under our debt agreements on or before their respective maturity dates with other loans, debt securities or equity securities, in privately negotiated transactions (including exchanges), or public offerings. The timing of such refinancing will depend on many factors, including market conditions, our liquidity requirements, our debt maturity profile, and contractual restrictions. We continuously monitor the credit and equity markets for refinancing opportunities, and have ongoing relationships with experts in debt and equity financing to assist us. There are numerous potential consequences under the 1st Lien Agreement, 2nd Lien Agreement, and the New Pulitzer Notes, if an event of default, as defined, occurs and is not remedied. Many of those consequences are beyond our control. The occurrence of one or more events of default would give rise to the right of the 1st Lien Lenders, 2nd Lien Lenders and/or Berkshire, to exercise their remedies under the 1st Lien Agreement, 2nd Lien Agreement and the New Pulitzer Notes, respectively, including, without limitation, the right to accelerate all outstanding debt and take actions authorized in such circumstances under applicable collateral security documents. Our ability to operate as a going concern is dependent on our ability to remain in compliance with debt covenants and to refinance or amend our debt agreements as they become due, or earlier if available liquidity is consumed. We are in compliance with our debt covenants at September 29, 2013. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS General Economic Conditions May Continue To Impact Our Revenue And Operating Results According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the United States economy was in a recession from December 2007 until June 2009. It is widely believed that certain elements of the economy, such as housing, auto sales and employment, were in decline before December 2007, and some elements have still not recovered to pre-recession levels in either nominal or real (inflation adjusted) terms. Revenue, operating results and cash flows were significantly impacted by the recession and its aftermath. The duration and depth of an economic recession, and pace of economic recovery, in markets in which we operate may influence our future results. 12OPERATING REVENUE Our Revenue May Not Return To Historical Levels A significant portion of our revenue is derived from advertising. The demand for advertising is sensitive to the overall level of economic activity, both locally and nationally. Operating revenue in most categories has decreased since 2007 and may decrease in the future. Such decreases may not be offset by growth in advertising in other categories, such as digital revenue which, until 2008, had been rising significantly and began to rise again in 2010. Historically, newspaper publishing has been viewed as a cost-effective method of delivering various forms of advertising. There can be no guarantee that this historical perception will guide future decisions on the part of advertisers. Web sites and applications for mobile devices distributing news and other content continue to gain popularity. As a result, audience attention and advertising spending are shifting and may continue to shift from traditional media to digital media. We expect that advertisers will allocate greater portions of their future budgets to digital media, which can offer more measurable returns than traditional print media through pay for performance and keyword-targeted advertising. If our efforts to adapt to evolving technological developments in the media industry are unsuccessful, or if we fail to correctly anticipate shifts in audience demand and digital media trends, we may be unable to provide the services, media and content that audiences and potential audiences in our markets prefer and we may be unable to provide the returns that our advertisers seek. To the extent that advertisers shift advertising expenditures to other media outlets, including those on the Internet, the profitability of our business may continue to be impacted. The rates we charge for advertising are, in part, related to the size of the audience of our publications and digital products. There is significant competition for readers and viewers from other media. Our business may be adversely affected to the extent individuals decide to obtain news, entertainment, classified listings and local shopping information from Internet-based or other media, to the exclusion of our outlets for such information. Retail Advertising Many advertisers, including major retail store chains, automobile manufacturers and dealers, banks and telecommunications companies, have experienced significant merger and acquisition activity over the last several years, and some have gone out of business, effectively reducing the number of brand names under which the merged entities operate. Our retail revenue is also being impacted by the slow pace of the current economic recovery. For example, a decline in the housing market negatively impacts retail advertising related to home improvement, furniture and home electronics. Classified Advertising Classified advertising is the category that has been most significantly impacted by changing advertising trends and the current economic environment. All categories of classified advertising have generally declined since 2007. While automobile sales have rebounded significantly, neither the unemployment rate nor the housing industry have, as yet, recovered to pre-recession levels. See “Advertising and Marketing Services” in Item 1, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with advertising revenue. Subscription Revenue Although our overall audience is stable and our subscription results have historically benchmarked favorably to national averages, as compiled by the AAM, subscription sales have nonetheless been declining for many years. The possibility exists that future subscription price increases may be difficult to accomplish as a result of future declines in subscription sales, and that price decreases may be necessary to retain or grow subscription volume. We are maintaining our share of audience through digital audience growth and strong newspaper readership. In addition, as audience attention increasingly focuses on digital media, circulation of our newspapers may be adversely affected, which may decrease subscription revenue and exacerbate declines in print advertising. If we are not successful in growing our digital businesses, including digital subscription revenue, to offset declines in revenue from our print products, our business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. 13See “Audiences” in Item 1, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with subscription revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES We May Not Be Able To Reduce Future Expenses To Offset Potential Revenue Declines We reduced cash costs of our continuing operations (i.e., compensation, newsprint and ink, other operating expenses and workforce adjustments) by $285 million, or 36%, since 2007. Such expense reductions are not expected to significantly impact our ability to deliver advertising, news or other content to our customers. As a result of the significant reductions of our cost structure we have achieved since 2007, future cost reductions will be more difficult to accomplish. Newsprint comprises a significant amount of our operating costs. See “Newsprint” in Item 1, and “Commodities” in Item 7A, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with changes in newsprint costs. In addition, technological developments and any changes we make to our business may require significant capital investments. We may be limited in our ability to invest funds and resources in digital products, services or opportunities and we may incur costs of research and development in building and maintaining the necessary and continually evolving technology infrastructure. As a result, our digital business could suffer.We May Incur Additional Non-Cash Impairment ChargesWe have significant amounts of goodwill and identified intangible assets. In 2013, 2011, 2009 and 2008, we recorded substantial impairment charges to reduce the value of certain of these assets. Should general economic, market or business conditions decline, and have a negative impact on our stock price or projected future cash flows, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in the future. Such charges would not impact our cash flows or debt covenant compliance. See “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with such assets. Sustained Increases In Funding Requirements Of Our Pension Obligations May Reduce The Cash Available For Our BusinessPension liabilities, net of plan assets, totaled $30.6 million at September 29, 2013, a $38.1 million improvement from September 30, 2012, due to strong asset returns and an increase in discount rates used to measure the liabilities. Contributions to pension plans are expected to total $1.4 million in 2014, a 77% reduction from 2013. Our pension and postretirement plans invest in a variety of equity and debt securities, many of which were affected by the disruption in the credit and capital markets in 2008 and thereafter. Future volatility and disruption in the stock and bond markets could cause further declines in the asset values of our pension plans. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine the liability for pension obligations could result in increased future contributions. If either occurs, we may need to make additional cash contributions above what is currently estimated, which could reduce the cash available for our business. Moreover, under the Pension Protection Act of 2006, future losses of asset value may necessitate accelerated funding of pension plans in the future to meet minimum federal statutory requirements. Legislation passed in 2012 temporarily reduced funding requirements for our pension plans, but those payments will eventually need to be restored unless discount rates and/or plan assets increase. EQUITY CAPITAL A Decrease In Our Stock Price May Limit The Ability To Trade Our StockOr For The Company To Raise Equity CapitalAs of July 1, 2011, our Common Stock traded at an average 30-day closing market price of less than $1 per share. Under the NYSE listing standards, if our Common Stock fails to maintain an adequate per share price and total market capitalization of less than $50,000,000, our Common Stock could be removed from the NYSE and traded in the over the counter market. In July 2011, the NYSE first notified us that our Common Stock did not meet the NYSE continued listing standards due to the failure to maintain an adequate share price. Under the NYSE rules, our Common Stock was allowed to continue to be listed during a cure period. In February 2012, after completing our debt refinancing, the NYSE notified us that we were again in compliance with the minimum closing price standard. In January 2013, the NYSE notified us that we had returned to full compliance with all continued listing standards. 14OTHERCybersecurity Risks Could Harm Our Ability To Operate EffectivelyIn 2013, 14.4% of our advertising and marketing services revenue was obtained from advertising in our digital products, and one of our businesses provides digital infrastructure and digital publishing services for other companies. We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including the misappropriation of personally identifiable information that we store and manage. We have preventive systems and processes in place to protect against the risk of cyber incidents. Prolonged system outages or a cyber incident that would be undetected for an extended period could reduce our print and/or digital revenue, increase our operating costs, disrupt our operations, harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers and/or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data. We maintain insurance coverage against certain of such risks.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 