ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk exists that our past results may not be indicative of future results. A discussion of our risk factors follows. See also, “Forward-Looking Statements”, included herein. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. DEBT AND LIQUIDITY We May Have Insufficient Earnings Or Liquidity To Meet Our Future Debt Obligations We have a substantial amount of debt, as discussed more fully (and certain capitalized terms used below defined) in Item 7, “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein. In February 2009, we completed a comprehensive restructuring of our Credit Agreement and a refinancing of our Pulitzer Notes debt, substantially enhancing our liquidity and operating flexibility until April 2012. 8Table of ContentsAt September 26, 2010, we had $ 285,425,000 outstanding under the revolving credit facility, and after consideration of the 2009 Amendments and letters of credit, have approximately $75,677,000 available for future use. Including cash and restricted cash, our liquidity at September 26, 2010 totals $104,722,000. This liquidity am ount excludes any future cash flows. Mandatory principal payments on debt in 2011 total $81,500,000. Since February 2009, we have satisfied all interest payments and substantially all principal payments due under our debt facilities with our cash flows. We expect all interest and principal payments due in 2011 will be satisfied by our continuing cash flows, which will allow us to maintain, or increase, the current level of liquidity. Our ability to operate as a going concern is dependent on our abilit y to remain in compliance with debt covenants and to refinance or amend our debt agreements as they become due, or earlier if available liquidity is consumed. We are in compliance with our debt covenants at September 26, 2010. There are numerous potential consequences under the Credit Agreement, and Guaranty Agreement and Note Agreement related to the Pulitzer Notes, if an event of default, as defined, occurs and is not remedied. Many of those consequences are beyond our control and the control of Pulitzer and PD LLC, respectively. The occurrence of one or more events of default would give rise to the right of the Lenders or the Noteholders, or both of them, to exercise their remedies under the Credit Agreement and the Note and Guaranty Agreements, respectively, including, without limitation, the right to accelerate all outstanding debt and take actions authorized in such circumstances under applicable collateral security documents. Since November 30, 2009, the full amount of the outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement has been subject to floating interest rates as all interest rate swaps and collars expired or were terminated. See Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”, and Item 7A, &ldq uo;Interest Rates”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with our financing arrangements. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS General Economic Conditions May Continue To Impact Our Revenue And Operating Results According to the National Bureau of Economic Researc h, the United States economy was in a recession from December 2007 until June 2009. It is widely believed that certain elements of the economy, such as housing, auto sales and employment, were in decline before December 2007, and have still not recovered to pre-recession levels. 2010, 2009 and 2008 revenue, operating results and cash flows were significantly impacted by the recession. The duration and depth of an economic recession, and pace of economic recovery, in markets in which we operate may influence our future results. OPERATING REVENUE Our Revenue May Not Return To Historical Levels A significant portion of our revenue is derived from advertising. The demand for advertising is sensitive to the overall level of economic activity, both locally and nationally. Operating revenue in most categories decreased in 2010, 2009 and 2008 and may decrease in the future. Such decreases may not be offset by growth in advertising in other categories, such as digital revenue which, until 2008, had been rising significantly and began to rise again in 2010. Historically, newspaper publishing has been viewed as a cost-effective method of delivering various forms of advertising. There can be no guarantee that this historical perception will guide future decisions on the part of advertisers. Web sites and applications for mobile devices distributing news and other content continue to gain popularity. As a result, audience attention and advertising spending are shifting and may continue to shift from traditional media to digital media. We expect that advertisers will allocate greater portions of their future budgets to digital media, which can offer more measurable returns than traditional print media through pay for performance and keyword-targeted advertising. To the extent that advertisers shi ft advertising expenditures to other media outlets, including those on the Internet, the profitability of our business may continue to be impacted. The rates we charge for advertising are, in part, related to the size of the audience of our publications and digital products. There is significant competition for readers and viewers from other media. Our business may be adversely affected to the extent individuals decide to obtain news, entertainment, classified listings and local shopping information from Internet-based or other media, to the exclusion of our outlets for such information. 9Table of ContentsRetail Advertising Many advertisers, including major retail store chains, automobile manufacturers and dealers, banks and telecommunications companies, have experienced significant merger and acquisition activity over the last severa l years, and some have gone out of business, effectively reducing the number of brand names under which the merged entities operate. Our retail revenue is also being impacted by the current economic environment. For example, a decline in the housing market negatively impacts retail advertising related to home improvement, furniture and home electronics. Classified Advertising Classified advertising is the category that has been most significantly impacted by the current economic environment. In 2008, as the recession ac celerated, employment classified advertising, including both print and digital, declined as unemployment increased. This trend began to reverse in 2010. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, real estate classified advertising also suffered declines due primarily to cyclical issues, such as declining sale prices and an increase in unsold homes, affecting the residential real estate market nationally. In 2009 this decline accelerated due to the access to, and limitations on, residential mortgage funding. Automotive classified advertising revenue declined in 2010, 2009 and 2008, due to industry-wide issues affecting certain domestic auto manufacturers and the overall decline in economic conditions leading to the last recession. See Item 1, “Advertising”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with advertising revenue. Circulation Though our overall audience is growing and our circulation unit results have historically benchmarked favorably to national averages, as compiled by the ABC, circulation unit sales have nonetheless been declining fractionally for several years. The possibility exists that future circulation price increases may be difficult to accomplish as a result of future declines in circulation unit sales, and that price decreases may be necessary to retain or grow circulation unit volume. We are reaching increasingly larger audiences through stable newspaper readership and rapid digital audience growth. Nonetheless, declines in circulation unit sales could also adversely impact advertising revenue. In addition, as audience attention increasingly focuses on digital media, circulation of our newspapers may be adversely affected, which may decrease circulation revenue and exacerbate declines in print advertising. If we are not successful in growing our digital businesses to offset declines in revenues from our print products, our business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. See Item 1, “Audiences”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with circulation revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES We May Not Be Able To Reduce Future Expenses To Offset Potential Revenue Declines We reduced operating expenses, excluding depreciation, amortization, impairment charges and other unusual costs, by $60,060,000, or 9.0%, in 2010, by $150,033,000, or 18.3%, in 2009 and by $26,995,000, or 3.2%, in 2008. Such expense reductions are not expected to significantly impact our ability to deliver advertising and content to our customers. As a result of the significant reductio ns of our cost structure we have achieved since 2007, future cost reductions will be more difficult to accomplish. 2011 operating expenses, excluding depreciation and amortization, are expected to increase less than 1%. Newsprint comprises a significant amount of our operating costs. See Item 1, “Newsprint” and Item 7A, “Commodities” included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with changes in newsprint costs. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS We May Incur Additional Non-Cash Impairment Charges We have significant amounts of goodwill and identified intangible assets. In 2009 and 2008, we recorded substantial impairment charges to reduce the value of certain of these assets. Should general economic, market or business conditions decline, and have a negative impact on our stock price or cash flows, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in the future. See Item 7, “Critical Accounting Policies”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with su ch assets. 10Table of Contents EQUITY CAPITAL A Decrease In Our Stock Price May Limit The Ability To Trade Our StockOr For The Company To Raise Equity Capital As of December 24, 2008, our Common Stock traded at an average 30-day closing market price of less than $1 per share. Under the NYSE listing standards, if our Common Stock fails to maintain an adequate per share price and total market capitalization, our Common Stock could be removed from the NYSE and traded in the over the counter market. In December 2008, the NYSE notified us that our Common Stock did not meet the NYSE continued listing standard due to the failure to maintain an adequate share price. Sub sequent to that date, the NYSE temporarily suspended the standard through July 2009, and extended our six-month cure period until December 2009. In September 2009, the NYSE notified us that our average share price had risen sufficiently to cure the share price deficiency. We may be able to mitigate the effect of a low stock price in the future through implementation of a reverse stock split. All of these factors, along with volatile equity market conditions, could limit our ability to raise new equity capital in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 