ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk exists that the Company’s past results may not be indicative of future results. A discussion of certain of the most significant of these risks follows. See also, “Forward-Looking Statements”, included herein. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document and others, both known and unknown) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. DEBT AND LIQUIDITY The Company has a substantial amount of debt, as more fully discussed (and capitalized terms used below defined) under Item 7, “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein. In 2009, the Company amended the terms of its Credit Agreement, which, among other changes, increases the Company’s future borrowing costs in relation to LIBOR, and reduces the amount available under the Company’s revolving credit facility. In December 2008, certain covenant violations related to the Credit Agreement and Pulitzer Notes were waived until March 30, 2009 and January 16, 2009, respectively. The Company’s ability to operate as a going concern is dependent on its ability to refinance or amend its debt agreements as they become due, or earlier if available liquidity is consumed. The Company’s indebtedness could adversely affect its financial health in any or all of the following ways: · Substantially all of the cash flows of the Company are required to be applied to payment of debt interest and principal, reducing funds available for investment, capital expenditures and other purposes; · The Company reported significant net losses in 2008, due to impairment of goodwill and other assets resulting from the continuing and increasing difference between its stock price and the per share carrying value of its net assets. Reduced expectations of future cash flows were also an important factor in the determination of such impairment charges; · The Company’s flexibility to react to changes in economic and industry conditions may be more limited; · Increasing leverage could make the Company more vulnerable in the event of additional deterioration of general economic conditions or other adverse events; and · There could be a material impact on the Company’s business if it is unable to meet the conditions of its debt agreements or obtain replacement financing. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Company generated cash flows in 2008 sufficient to reduce net debt by $102,225,000, pay dividends totaling $32,573,000 and acquire shares of its Common Stock in the amount of $19,483,000. The Company does not have sufficient cash flows to meet both its requirements for 2009 operations and repayment of the Pulitzer Notes. 2009 principal payments required under the Credit Agreement totaling $142,500,000 are expected to exceed the Company’s cash flows available for such payments. As a result, the Company expects to utilize a portion of its capacity under its revolving credit facility to fund a portion of the 2009 principal payments required. At September 28, 2008, the Company had $207,000,000 outstanding under the revolving credit facility, and after consideration of the 2009 Amendments, letters of credit and other commitments, has approximately $162,000,000 available for future use. Principal payments under the Credit Agreement totaling $166,250,000 are due in 2010. The Company expects to utilize the remainder of its capacity under its revolving credit facility to fund a portion of the 2010 principal payments required. The Pulitzer Notes mature in April 2009. The Company is actively engaged in discussions with the Noteholders, and to the extent their approval may also be required, the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, to extend or refinance the Pulitzer Notes. The Company has also initiated discussions with the Lenders related to changes to the Credit Agreement to maintain sufficient long-term liquidity. However, the timing and ultimate outcome of such discussions cannot be determined at this time due, in part, to the abnormal condition of the domestic credit markets and the overall recessionary operating environment in which the Company, Pulitzer, and other publishing companies are currently operating. Continuing instability or further disruptions of these markets could prohibit or make it more difficult for the Company to access new capital, increase the cost of capital or limit its ability to refinance existing indebtedness. There are numerous potential consequences under the Credit Agreement, and Guaranty Agreement and Note Agreement related to the Pulitzer Notes, if an Event of Default, including expiration of existing waivers, occurs and is not remedied. Many of those consequences are beyond the control of the Company, Pulitzer, and PD LLC, respectively. The occurrence of one or more Events of Default would give rise to the right of the Lenders or the Noteholders, or both of them, to exercise their remedies under the Credit Agreement and the Note and Guaranty Agreements, respectively, including, without limitation, the right to accelerate all outstanding debt and take actions authorized in such circumstances under applicable collateral security documents, any of which would impair the ability of the Company to operate its business as a going concern. See Item 7, “Liquidity and Capital Resources” included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with the Company’s financing arrangements. Approximately one half of the Company’s debt is subject to changes in market interest rates. See Item 7A, “Interest Rates” included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with floating rate debt. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS The United States economy has been in a recession since December 2007, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research, and it is widely believed that certain elements of the economy, such as housing, were in decline before that time. 2008 revenue, operating results and cash flows were significantly impacted by the recession. The duration and depth of an economic recession in markets in which the Company operates may further reduce its future advertising and circulation revenue, operating results and cash flows. OPERATING REVENUE A significant portion of the Company’s revenue is derived from advertising. The demand for advertising is sensitive to the overall level of economic activity, both nationally and locally. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Operating revenue in most categories decreased in 2008 and may decrease in the future. Such decreases may not be offset by growth in advertising in other categories, such as online revenue, which, until 2008, has been rising significantly over the last several years. There can also be no assurance such online growth will resume. Historically, newspaper publishing has been viewed as a cost-effective method of delivering various forms of advertising. There can be no guarantee that this historical perception will guide future decisions on the part of advertisers. To the extent that advertisers shift advertising expenditures to other media outlets, including the Internet, the profitability of the Company’s business may continue to be impacted. The rates the Company charges for advertising are, in part, related to the size of the audience of its publications and websites. There is significant competition for readers and viewers from other media. The Company’s business may be adversely affected to the extent individuals decide to obtain news, entertainment, classified listings and local shopping information from Internet-based or other media, to the exclusion of the Company’s outlets for such information. Retail Advertising Major retail store chains have experienced significant merger and acquisition activity over the last several years, and some have gone out of business, effectively reducing the number of brand names under which the merged entities operate. The Company’s retail revenue is also being impacted by the current recession. For example, a decline in the housing market negatively impacts retail advertising related to home improvement, furniture and home electronics. Classified Advertising Classified advertising is the category that has been most significantly impacted by the current economic environment. In 2008, as the recession accelerated, employment classified advertising, including both print and online, declined as unemployment increased. In 2008 and 2007, real estate classified advertising also suffered declines due primarily to cyclical issues, such as declining sale prices and an increase in unsold homes, affecting the residential real estate market nationally. Automotive classified advertising revenue declined in 2008, 2007 and 2006, due to industry-wide issues affecting certain domestic auto manufacturers and the overall decline in economic conditions leading to the current recession. See Item 1, “Advertising”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with advertising revenue. Circulation Though the Company’s audience is growing, and its circulation unit results have outperformed the industry, circulation unit sales have nonetheless been declining fractionally for several years. The possibility exists that future circulation price increases may be delayed or reduced as a result of future declines in circulation unit sales, and that price decreases may be necessary to retain or grow circulation unit volume. The Company is reaching increasingly larger audiences through modest growth in newspaper readership and rapid online audience growth, as well as through additional specialty and niche publications. Nonetheless, declines in circulation unit sales could also adversely impact advertising revenue. See Item 1, “Audiences”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with circulation revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES The Company reduced operating expenses, excluding depreciation, amortization and unusual costs (and cost reductions), by 3.2% in 2008 and expects to reduce such operating expenses by an additional 7-8% in 2009. Such expense reductions are not expected to significantly impact the Company’s ability to deliver advertising and content to its customers. The results of future labor negotiations could affect the Company’s operating results. For additional information concerning the Company’s labor relations, see Item 1, “Employees”, included herein. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Newsprint comprises a significant amount of the Company’s operating costs. See Item 1, “Newsprint” and Item 7A, “Commodities” included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with changes in newsprint costs. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS The Company has significant amounts of goodwill and identified intangible assets. In 2008, the Company recorded substantial impairment charges to reduce the value of certain of these assets. Should general economic, market or business conditions continue to decline, and continue to have a negative impact on the Company’s stock price, the Company may be required to record additional impairment charges in the future. See Item 7, “Critical Accounting Policies”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with such assets. EQUITY CAPITAL As of December 24, 2008, the Company’s Common Stock traded at an average 30-day closing market price of less than $1 per share. The Company’s equity market capitalization may also fall under the $25,000,000 minimum requirement of the NYSE at some future date. Under the NYSE listing standards, if the Company’s Common Stock fails to maintain an adequate per share price and total market capitalization, the Company’s Common Stock could be removed from the NYSE and traded in the over the counter market. In a letter dated December 30, 2008 the NYSE notified the Company that it does not meet the NYSE continued listing standard due to its failure to maintain an adequate share price. The Company may be given a six month period of time to cure issues relating to its ability to meet NYSE listing standards. All of these factors, along with otherwise volatile equity market conditions, could limit the Company’s ability to raise new equity capital in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 