ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT OPERATING RESULTS Risk exists that the Company’s past results may not be indicative of future results. A discussion of certain of the more significant of these risks follows. See also, “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1, included herein. OPERATING REVENUE Advertising revenue in certain categories, or all categories, may decrease in the future. For example, automotive classified advertising revenue declined in 2006, primarily related to industry-wide issues affecting certain domestic auto manufacturers. Such decreases may not be compensated for by growth in advertising in other categories. In addition, major retail store chains have experienced significant merger and acquisition activity over the last several years, effectively reducing the number of brand names under which the merged entities operate. Such reductions may negatively impact future amounts of advertising revenue generated by the Company. Circulation unit sales have been declining fractionally for several years. To date, declines in circulation unit sales have not substantially mitigated the Company’s ability to implement price increases for its products. However, the possibility exists that future price increases may be delayed or reduced as a result of future declines in circulation unit sales. The Company is reaching an increasingly larger share of the market through rapid online growth, as well as through additional specialty and niche publications. See Item 1, “Advertising”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with advertising revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES Newsprint comprises a significant amount of the Company’s operating costs. See Item 1, “Newsprint” and Item 7A, “Commodities”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with newsprint costs. INTEREST EXPENSE The Company has substantial debt, the majority of which is subject to changes in market interest rates. See Item 7A, “Interest Rates”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with floating rate debt. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 