ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk exists that our past results may not be indicative of future results. A discussion of our risk factors follows. See also, “Forward-Looking Statements”, included herein. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. DEBT AND LIQUIDITY We May Have Insufficient Earnings Or Liquidity To Meet Our Future Debt Obligations We have a substantial amount of debt, as discussed more fully (and certain capitalized terms used below defined) in Item 7,"Liquidity" and Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein. In February 2009, we completed a comprehensive restructuring of our then-existing credit agreement and a refinancing of our Pulitzer Notes debt, substantially enhancing our liquidity and operating flexibility. Since February 2009, we have satisfied all interest payments and substantially all principal payments due under our debt facilities with our cash flows. 12Substantially all of our debt was scheduled to mature in April 2012. In January 2012 we used a voluntary, prepackaged petition under the U. S. Bankruptcy Code to accomplish a comprehensive refinancing that extended the maturity to December 2015 for most of our debt, with the remainder maturing in April 2017. In May 2013, we again refinanced the $94,000,000 remaining balance of the Pulitzer Notes (the "New Pulitzer Notes") with BH Finance LLC ("Berkshire"), a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. On March 31, 2014, we completed the 2014 Refinancing, which includes the following:•$400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 9.5% Senior Secured Notes (the “Notes”), pursuant to an Indenture dated as of March 31, 2014 (the “Indenture”) among the Company, certain subsidiaries party thereto from time to time (the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (the "Notes Trustee"), and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Collateral Agent; •$250,000,000 first lien term loan (the "1st Lien Term Loan") and $40,000,000 revolving facility (the "Revolving Facility") under a First Lien Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 2014 (together, the “1st Lien Credit Facility”) among the Company, the lenders party thereto from time to time (the “1st Lien Lenders”), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent; and•$150,000,000 second lien term loan under a Second Lien Loan Agreement dated as of March 31, 2014 (the “ 2nd Lien Term Loan”) among the Company, the lenders party thereto from time to time (the “2nd Lien Lenders”), and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent.The Notes, 1st Lien Credit Facility and 2nd Lien Term Loan enabled us to repay in full, including accrued interest, and terminate, on March 31, 2014: (i) the remaining principal balance of $593,000,000 under our previous 1st lien agreement, and related subsidiary guaranty, security and pledge agreements, intercompany subordination and intercreditor agreements; and (ii) the remaining principal balance of $175,000,000 under our previous 2nd lien agreement, and related subsidiary guaranty, security and pledge agreements, intercompany subordination and intercreditor agreements. We also used the proceeds of the refinancing to pay fees and expenses totaling $30,931,000 related to the 2014 Refinancing.Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate future cash flows. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. At September 28, 2014, after consideration of letters of credit, we have approximately $27,605,000 available for future use under our Revolving Facility. Including cash, our liquidity at September 28, 2014 totals $44,750,000. This liquidity amount excludes any future cash flows. Our unlevered free cash flow(1) has been stable for the last six years and has exceeded $152,000,000 in each year from 2009 through 2014, but there can be no assurance that such cash flows will continue. We expect all interest and principal payments due in the next twelve months will be satisfied by our continuing cash flows, which will allow us to maintain an adequate level of liquidity. At September 28, 2014, the principal amount of our outstanding debt totals $804,750,000. At September 28, 2014, our debt, net of cash, is 4.7 times our 2014 adjusted EBITDA(1), compared to a ratio of 4.8 at September 29, 2013.The 2014 Refinancing significantly enhances our debt maturity profile. Final maturities of our debt have been extended to dates extending from April 2017 through December 2022. As a result, refinancing risk has been substantially reduced for the next several years.There are numerous potential consequences under the Notes, 1st Lien Credit Facility, 2nd Lien Term Loan, and the New Pulitzer Notes, if an event of default, as defined, occurs and is not remedied. Many of those consequences are beyond our control. The occurrence of one or more events of default would give rise to the right of the applicable lenders to exercise their remedies under the Notes, 1st Lien Credit Facility, 2nd Lien Term Loan and the New Pulitzer Notes, respectively, including, without limitation, the right to accelerate all outstanding debt and take actions authorized in such circumstances under applicable collateral security documents. (1) See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures: in Item 7, included herein, for additional information.13Our ability to operate as a going concern is dependent on our ability to remain in compliance with debt covenants and to refinance or amend our debt agreements as they become due, or earlier if available liquidity is consumed. The Notes, 1st Lien Credit Facility and 2nd Lien Term Loan have only limited affirmative covenants with which we are required to maintain compliance. We are in compliance with our debt covenants at September 28, 2014. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS General Economic Conditions May Continue To Impact Our Revenue And Operating Results According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the United States economy was in a recession from December 2007 until June 2009. It is widely believed that certain elements of the economy, such as housing, auto sales and employment, were in decline before December 2007, and some elements have recovered slowly in either nominal or real (inflation adjusted) terms. Our revenue, operating results and cash flows were significantly impacted by the recession and its aftermath. The duration and depth of an economic recession, and pace of economic recovery, in markets in which we operate, may influence our future results. OPERATING REVENUE Our Revenue May Not Return To Historical LevelsA significant portion of our revenue is derived from advertising. The demand for advertising is sensitive to the overall level of economic activity, both locally and nationally. Newspaper publishing is both capital and labor intensive and, as a result, newspapers have relatively high fixed costs. Accordingly, changes in advertising revenue could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations. Operating revenue in most categories has decreased since 2007 and may decrease in the future. Such decreases may not be offset by growth in advertising in other categories, such as digital revenue which has been rising since 2010. Historically, newspaper publishing has been viewed as a cost-effective method of delivering various forms of advertising. There can be no guarantee that this historical perception will guide future decisions on the part of advertisers. Web sites and applications for mobile devices distributing news and other content continue to gain popularity. As a result, audience attention and advertising spending are shifting and may continue to shift from traditional media to digital media. As media audiences fragment, we expect that advertisers will allocate greater portions of their future budgets to digital media, which can offer more measurable returns than traditional print media through pay for performance and keyword-targeted advertising. If our efforts to adapt to evolving technological developments in the media industry are unsuccessful, or if we fail to correctly anticipate shifts in audience demand and digital media trends, we may be unable to provide the services, media and content that audiences and potential audiences in our markets prefer and we may be unable to provide the returns that our advertisers seek. This increased competition has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business and financial results. The digital media industry experiences additional competitive challenges because barriers to entry can be low and geographic location is less relevant. Technological developments also pose other challenges that could adversely affect our revenue and competitive position. New delivery platforms may lead to pricing restrictions and the loss of a direct relationship with consumers. We may also be adversely affected if the use of technology developed to block the display of advertising on websites and other digital platforms proliferates. The rates we charge for advertising are, in part, related to the size of the audience of our publications and digital products. There is significant competition for readers and viewers from other media. Our business may be adversely affected to the extent individuals decide to obtain news, entertainment, classified listings and local shopping information from digital or other media, to the exclusion of our outlets for such information. Retail Advertising Many advertisers, including major retail store chains, automobile manufacturers and dealers, banks and telecommunications companies, have experienced significant merger and acquisition activity over the last several years, and some have gone out of business, effectively reducing the number of brand names under which the merged entities operate. Our retail revenue is also being impacted by the pace of the current economic recovery. For example, a slow recovery in the housing market impacts retail advertising related to home improvement, furniture and home electronics. 14Classified Advertising Classified advertising is the category that has been most significantly impacted by changing advertising trends and the current economic environment. All categories of classified advertising have generally declined since 2007. See "Advertising and Marketing Services” in Item 1, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with advertising revenue. Subscription Revenue Advertising and subscription revenue is affected by readership of our publications and digital products. Although our aggregate print and digital audience is relatively stable, subscription sales have nonetheless been declining for many years, reflecting general trends in the newspaper industry, including consumer migration toward digital platforms and other media for news and information. The possibility exists that future subscription price increases may be difficult to accomplish or maintain as a result of future declines in subscription sales, and that price decreases may be necessary to retain or grow subscription volume. We are maintaining our share of audience through digital audience growth and strong newspaper readership. In addition, as audience attention increasingly focuses on digital media, circulation of our newspapers may be adversely affected, which may decrease subscription revenue and exacerbate declines in print advertising. We face increasing competition from other digital sources for subscription revenue. This competition has intensified as a result of the continued development of digital media technologies. To maintain our subscription base, we may be required to incur additional costs that we may not be able to recover through subscription and advertising revenue. We may not be able to achieve a profitable balance between subscription levels and advertising revenue. In addition, if we are not successful in growing our digital businesses, including digital subscription revenue, to offset declines in revenue from our print products, our business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. In 2011, we began introducing charges for digital content using a metered model in certain of our markets that ended free, unlimited access to our newspapers’ websites. In 2014, we began the transition of our subscriptions to full digital access, including desktop, mobile and tablet. If we are not successful in the implementation of this strategy, our ability to produce anticipated subscription revenue and sustain our print and/or digital audiences may be negatively impacted. Our ability to build a subscriber base on our digital platforms through these packages depends on market acceptance, consumer habits, pricing, an adequate digital infrastructure, terms of delivery platforms and other factors. In addition, the price increase may result in fewer page views or unique visitors to our digital platforms if viewers are unwilling to pay to gain access to our digital content. Stagnation, or a decline in traffic levels, may adversely affect our advertiser base and advertising rates and result in a decline in digital revenue. See "Audiences” in Item 1, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with subscription revenue. If We Are Not Successful In Growing And Managing Our Digital Business, Our Business, Financial Condition, Results Of Operations And Prospects Could Be Adversely AffectedOur future growth depends to a significant degree upon the development and management of our digital business. The growth of our digital business over the long term depends on various factors, including, among other things, the ability to: •Continue to increase digital audiences; •Attract advertisers to our digital platforms; •Maintain or increase the advertising rates on our digital platforms; • •Exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish our products and services from those of competitors and develop new content, products and services; •Invest funds and resources in digital opportunities; and 15•Partner with, or use services from, providers that can assist us in effectively growing our digital business. In addition, we expect that our digital business will continue to increase as a percentage of our total revenue. In 2014, total digital revenue (including revenue from digital subscriptions) comprised 13.7% of total revenue, as compared to 11.4% in 2013. As our digital business becomes a greater portion of our overall business, we will face a number of increased risks from managing our digital operations, including, but not limited, to the following: •Continuing training of our sales force to more effectively sell advertising in the digital advertising arena versus our historical print advertising business; •Attracting and retaining employees with skill sets and the knowledge base needed to successfully operate our digital business; and •Managing the transition to a digital business from a historically print-focused business. OPERATING EXPENSES We May Not Be Able To Reduce Future Expenses To Offset Potential Revenue Declines We reduced cash costs of our continuing operations (compensation, newsprint and ink, other operating expenses and workforce adjustments) by $297 million, or more than 37%, since 2007. Such expense reductions are not expected to significantly impact our ability to deliver advertising, news or other content to our customers. As a result of the significant reductions of our cost structure we have achieved since 2007, future cost reductions will be more difficult to accomplish. Newsprint comprises a significant amount of our operating costs. See “Newsprint” in Item 1, and “Commodities” in Item 7A, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with changes in newsprint costs. In addition, technological developments and any changes we make to our business may require significant capital investments. We may be limited in our ability to invest funds and resources in digital products, services or opportunities and we may incur costs of research and development in building and maintaining the necessary and continually evolving technology infrastructure. As a result, our digital business could suffer.We May Incur Additional Non-Cash Impairment ChargesWe have significant amounts of goodwill and identified intangible assets. Since 2007 we have recorded impairment charges totaling almost $1.3 billion to reduce the value of certain of these assets. Should general economic, market or business conditions decline, and have a negative impact on our stock price or projected future cash flows, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in the future. Such charges would not impact our cash flows or debt covenant compliance. See “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with such assets. Sustained Increases In Funding Requirements Of Our Pension and Postretirement Obligations May Reduce The Cash Available For Our BusinessPension liabilities, net of plan assets, totaled $50.2 million at September 28, 2014. Contributions to pension plans are expected to total $3.8 million in 2015. At September 28, 2014, the assets of our postretirement plans exceeded plan liabilities by $14.1 million.Our pension and postretirement plans invest in a variety of equity and debt securities, many of which were affected by the disruption in the credit and capital markets in 2008 and thereafter. Future volatility and disruption in the securities markets could cause declines in the values of our pension assets. In addition, a decrease in the discount rates used to determine the liability for obligations could result in increased future contributions. If either occurs, we may need to make additional cash contributions above what is currently estimated, which could reduce the cash available for our business. Moreover, under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the "PPA"), future losses of asset value may necessitate accelerated funding of pension plans in the future to meet minimum federal statutory requirements. Legislation passed in 2012 and 2014 temporarily reduced funding requirements for our pension plans, but those payments will eventually need to be restored unless discount rates and/or plan assets increase. 16In October 2014, the Society of Actuaries released new mortality tables. The new tables generally result in increases in life expectancy. We used the new mortality tables to value our pension and postretirement liabilities at September 28, 2014, which increased such liabilities, in total, by approximately $18.5 million, with a corresponding decrease in accumulated other comprehensive income in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of that date. We May Be Subject To Withdrawal Liability In Connection With Certain Multiemployer Pension Plans, Which May Reduce The Cash Available For Our BusinessPursuant to our collective bargaining obligations, we contribute to three multiemployer pension plans on behalf of certain of our employees. Based on the most recent communications from the plans’ administrators, two of these plans are currently in “critical” status, as that term is used in relation to such plans under the PPA. For plans that are in critical status, benefit reductions may apply and/or we could be required to make additional contributions. If, we were to withdraw from one of these plans or trigger a partial withdrawal due to declines in contribution base units, and the plan had unfunded vested benefits at the time of our withdrawal or partial withdrawal, we could owe the plan significant withdrawal liability, which could reduce the cash available for our business. EQUITY CAPITAL A Decrease In Our Stock Price May Limit The Ability To Trade Our StockOr For The Company To Raise Equity CapitalUnder the NYSE listing standards, if our common stock fails to maintain an adequate per share price and our total market capitalization falls below $50.0 million, our common stock could be removed from the NYSE and traded in the over the counter market. In July 2011, the NYSE notified us that our common stock did not meet the NYSE continued listing standards due to the failure to maintain an adequate share price. Under the NYSE rules, our common stock was allowed to continue to be listed during a cure period. In February 2012, after completing our debt refinancing, the NYSE notified us that we were again in compliance with the minimum closing price standard. In January 2013, the NYSE notified us that we had returned to full compliance with all continued listing standards. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to meet these listing standards, and the removal of our common stock from the NYSE could adversely affect our ability to raise equity capital. OTHERCybersecurity Risks Could Harm Our Ability To Operate EffectivelyIn 2014, 17.0% of our advertising and marketing services revenue was obtained from digital advertising, primarily on our digital platforms, and one of our businesses provides digital infrastructure and digital publishing services for other companies. We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including the misappropriation of personally identifiable information that we store and manage. We have preventive systems and processes in place to protect against the risk of cyber incidents. However, the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access and to disable systems and websites change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. There can be no assurance that we, or the security systems we implement, will protect against all of these rapidly changing risks. Prolonged system outages or a cyber incident that goes undetected could reduce our print and/or digital revenue, increase our operating costs, disrupt our operations, harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers and/or subject us to liability under laws and regulations that protect personal data. We maintain insurance coverage against certain of such risks, but cannot guarantee that such coverage will be sufficient with respect to any given incident. We May Not Be Able To Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights, Which May Adversely Affect Our BusinessOur business depends on our intellectual property, including our valuable brands and content. We believe our proprietary trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our continued success and our competitive position. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our content or infringe upon, dilute, reproduce, misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be successful in any given case. 17ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 