ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk exists that our past results may not be indicative of future results. A discussion of our risk factors follows. See also, “Forward-Looking Statements”, included herein. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. DEBT AND LIQUIDITY Our Refinancing May Not Be Completed And We May Have Insufficient Earnings Or Liquidity To Meet Our Future Debt Obligations We have a substantial amount of debt, as discussed more fully (and certain capitalized terms used below defined) in Item 7, “Status of Debt Refinancing and Liquidity" and Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein. In February 2009, we completed a comprehensive restructuring of our Credit Agreement and a refinancing of our Pulitzer Notes debt, substantially enhancing our liquidity and operating flexibility until April 2012. At September 25, 2011, we had $286,425,000 outstanding under the revolving credit facility, and after consideration of the 2009 Amendments and letters of credit, have approximately $75,677,000 available for future use. Including cash and restricted cash, our liquidity at September 25, 2011 totals $104,204,000. This liquidity amount excludes any future cash flows. Since February 2009, we have satisfied all interest payments and substantially all principal payments due under our debt facilities with our cash flows. All of our debt matures in April 2012, and we do not have sufficient cash flows to repay it without refinancing substantially all of the balance. We will use a voluntary, prepackaged filing under Chapter 11 of the U. S. Bankruptcy Code to accomplish the refinancing. We have a refinancing plan in place that has been agreed to by 94% of lenders, substantially more than the required 67%, and by 100% of Noteholders. However, there can be no assurance the U.S. Bankruptcy Court will approve the plan in its present form. Interest expense will increase under the plan and mandatory principal payments will be reduced. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate future cash flows. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.Since our refinancing process was not completed at the time of the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, there is significant uncertainty about our ability to operate as a going concern. Accordingly, the opinion of our independent registered accounting firm on our Consolidated Financial Statements contains explanatory going concern language. Our ability to operate as a going concern is dependent on our ability to obtain approval by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court of the refinancing plan approved by creditors and to generate cash flows and maintain liquidity sufficient to service our debt. There are numerous potential consequences under the Credit Agreement, and Guaranty Agreement and Note Agreement related to the Pulitzer Notes, if an event of default, as defined, occurs and is not remedied. Many of those consequences are beyond our control and the control of Pulitzer and PD LLC, respectively. The occurrence of one or more events of default would give rise to the right of the Lenders or the Noteholders, or both of them, to exercise their remedies under the Credit Agreement and the Note and Guaranty Agreements, respectively, including, without limitation, the right to accelerate all outstanding debt and take actions authorized in such circumstances under applicable collateral security documents. Since November 30, 2009, the full amount of the outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement has been subject to floating interest rates as all interest rate swaps and collars expired or were terminated. See Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”, and Item 7A, “Interest Rates”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with our financing arrangements. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS General Economic Conditions May Continue To Impact Our Revenue And Operating Results According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the United States economy was in a recession from December 2007 until June 2009. It is widely believed that certain elements of the economy, such as housing, auto sales and employment, were in decline before December 2007, and have still not recovered to pre-recession levels. 2009, 2010 and 2011 revenue, operating results and cash flows were significantly impacted by the recession and its aftermath. 12The duration and depth of an economic recession, and pace of economic recovery, in markets in which we operate may influence our future results. OPERATING REVENUE Our Revenue May Not Return To Historical Levels A significant portion of our revenue is derived from advertising. The demand for advertising is sensitive to the overall level of economic activity, both locally and nationally. Operating revenue in most categories decreased in 2011, 2010 and 2009 and may decrease in the future. Such decreases may not be offset by growth in advertising in other categories, such as digital revenue which, until 2008, had been rising significantly and began to rise again in 2010. Historically, newspaper publishing has been viewed as a cost-effective method of delivering various forms of advertising. There can be no guarantee that this historical perception will guide future decisions on the part of advertisers. Web sites and applications for mobile devices distributing news and other content continue to gain popularity. As a result, audience attention and advertising spending are shifting and may continue to shift from traditional media to digital media. We expect that advertisers will allocate greater portions of their future budgets to digital media, which can offer more measurable returns than traditional print media through pay for performance and keyword-targeted advertising. If our efforts to adapt to evolving technological developments in the media industry are unsuccessful, or if we fail to correctly anticipate shifts in audience demand and digital media trends, we may be unable to provide the services, media and content that audiences and potential audiences in our markets prefer and we may be unable to provide the returns that our advertisers seek. To the extent that advertisers shift advertising expenditures to other media outlets, including those on the Internet, the profitability of our business may continue to be impacted. The rates we charge for advertising are, in part, related to the size of the audience of our publications and digital products. There is significant competition for readers and viewers from other media. Our business may be adversely affected to the extent individuals decide to obtain news, entertainment, classified listings and local shopping information from Internet-based or other media, to the exclusion of our outlets for such information. Retail Advertising Many advertisers, including major retail store chains, automobile manufacturers and dealers, banks and telecommunications companies, have experienced significant merger and acquisition activity over the last several years, and some have gone out of business, effectively reducing the number of brand names under which the merged entities operate. Our retail revenue is also being impacted by the current economic environment. For example, a decline in the housing market negatively impacts retail advertising related to home improvement, furniture and home electronics. Classified Advertising Classified advertising is the category that has been most significantly impacted by the current economic environment. In 2009 employment classified advertising, including both print and digital, declined as unemployment increased. This trend began to reverse in 2010 and employment revenue grew in 2011. Automotive classified advertising revenue declined in 2009 and 2010, due to industry-wide issues affecting certain domestic auto manufacturers and overall weak economic conditions. In 2009, 2010 and 2011 real estate classified advertising also suffered declines due primarily to cyclical issues, such as declining sale prices and high levels of unsold homes, affecting the residential real estate market nationally. See Item 1, “Advertising”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with advertising revenue. Circulation Although our overall audience is stable and our circulation unit results have historically benchmarked favorably to national averages, as compiled by the ABC, circulation unit sales have nonetheless been declining fractionally for several years. The possibility exists that future circulation price increases may be difficult to accomplish as a result of future declines in circulation unit sales, and that price decreases may be necessary to retain or grow circulation unit volume. We are maintaining strong audiences through stable newspaper readership and rapid digital audience growth. 13Nonetheless, declines in circulation unit sales could also adversely impact advertising revenue. In addition, as audience attention increasingly focuses on digital media, circulation of our newspapers may be adversely affected, which may decrease circulation revenue and exacerbate declines in print advertising. If we are not successful in growing our digital businesses to offset declines in revenues from our print products, our business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. See Item 1, “Audiences”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with circulation revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES We May Not Be Able To Reduce Future Expenses To Offset Potential Revenue Declines We reduced cash costs (i.e., compensation, newsprint and ink, other operating expenses and workforce adjustments) $260,000,000, or more than 30%, since 2007. Such expense reductions are not expected to significantly impact our ability to deliver advertising and content to our customers. As a result of the significant reductions of our cost structure we have achieved since 2007, future cost reductions will be more difficult to accomplish. Cash costs are expected to decrease 1.5 - 2.5% in 2012 on a comparable basis from the 2011 level, excluding a 53rd week of business activity in 2012. Newsprint comprises a significant amount of our operating costs. See Item 1, “Newsprint” and Item 7A, “Commodities” included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with changes in newsprint costs. In addition, technological developments and any changes we make to our business may require significant capital investments. We may be limited in our ability to invest funds and resources in digital products, services or opportunities and we may incur costs of research and development in building and maintaining the necessary and continually evolving technology infrastructure. As a result, our digital business could suffer.We May Incur Additional Non-Cash Impairment ChargesWe have significant amounts of goodwill and identified intangible assets. In 2011 and 2009, we recorded substantial impairment charges to reduce the value of certain of these assets. Should general economic, market or business conditions decline, and have a negative impact on our stock price or projected future cash flows, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in the future. See Item 7, “Critical Accounting Policies”, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with such assets. Sustained Increases In Funding Requirements Of Our Pension And Postretirement Obligations May Reduce The Cash Available For Our BusinessOur pension and postretirement plans invest in a variety of equity and debt securities, many of which were affected by the disruption in the credit and capital markets in 2008, 2009 and 2011. Future volatility and disruption in the stock and bond markets could cause further declines in the asset values of our pension plans. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine the liability for pension obligations could result in increased future contributions. If either occurs, we may need to make additional cash contributions above what is currently estimated, which could reduce the cash available for our business. Moreover, under the Pension Protection Act of 2006, continued losses of asset values may necessitate accelerated funding of pension plans in the future to meet minimum federal statutory requirements. EQUITY CAPITAL A Decrease In Our Stock Price May Limit The Ability To Trade Our StockOr For The Company To Raise Equity CapitalAs of July 1, 2011, our Common Stock traded at an average 30-day closing market price of less than $1 per share. Under the NYSE listing standards, if our Common Stock fails to maintain an adequate per share price and total market capitalization, our Common Stock could be removed from the NYSE and traded in the over the counter market. In July 2011, the NYSE first notified us that our Common Stock did not meet the NYSE continued listing standard due to the failure to maintain an adequate share price. Under the NYSE rules related to the average share price, Lee Common 14Stock is allowed to continue to be listed during a cure period. Continued listing is subject to ongoing reassessment by the NYSE and the return to compliance with all quantitative listing requirements, which would require an increase in the average closing price to $1.12 per share (or $1.00 per share if the refinancing of our debt discussed more fully in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein, is consumated). We are currently operating under an NYSE-approved plan to address those quantitative listing requirements as to which we are non-compliant, and expect those issues to be successfully addressed within the time frames required under the NYSE rules. We may be able to mitigate the effect of a low stock price in the future through implementation of a reverse stock split.OTHEROur Operations Will Be Subject To The Uncertainties of The Bankruptcy ProcessWhile our voluntary, prepackaged refinancing plan has been approved by substantially all of our creditors and we expect to complete the filing process expeditiously, negative events or publicity associated with our process and events during the proceedings could adversely affect our relationships with customers, vendors or employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Further, our ability to obtain court approval of routine motions that will allow us to operate our business normally is not within our control. The voluntary, prepackaged refinancing plan is also subject to certain closing conditions including, but not limited to, achieving a minimum level of liquidity, all of which must be satisfied in order for the Company to emerge from the Chapter 11 process.Cybersecurity Risks Could Harm Our Ability To Operate EffectivelyIn 2011, 11.2% of our advertising revenue was obtained from advertising in our digital products and one of our businesses provides digital infrastructure and digital publishing services for other companies. We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks. We have preventive systems and processes in place to protect against the risk of cyber incidents. Prolonged system outages or a cyber incident that would be undetected for an extended period could reduce our digital revenue, increase our operating costs, or disrupt our operations. We maintain insurance coverage against certain of such risks.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 