Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves risk. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking and other statements contained in this report. We may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC in the future. Costs of raw materials could adversely affect our operating results. Raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. We typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs move with the market. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we often attempt to implement price increases to recover the higher costs. We encounter greater difficulty in implementing these price increases in industries where we have a smaller market share and in products that are of a commodity nature. Inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. Steel is our most significant raw material. During 2004 the price of certain types of steel nearly doubled. Steel costs were more stable (at high levels) in 2005 and 2006, although there were some quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in those years. These market conditions in 2004 and 2005 resulted in an unusually high spread between steel scrap costs and steel rod prices. As a result, this spread created unsustainable margins and earnings at our steel rod mill. In 2006, the average rod margins narrowed primarily due to changes in the global steel market. If this narrowing continues, it will negatively impact our results of operations. Our operations can also be negatively impacted by the cost of other raw materials. Throughout 2005, but particularly in the last half of the year, we experienced higher costs associated with the oil based raw materials, such as chemicals, fibers and resins. In 2006, the cost of these materials remained relatively flat (at high levels). In 2006, the cost of foam scrap increased steadily with the overall cost doubling from the prices at the end of 2005. In 2005, higher raw material costs led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. This trend continued in 2006. In some cases, higher priced components were replaced with lower priced components. This has primarily impacted our Residential Furnishings product mix and decreased profit margins. If this trend continues it could negatively impact our results of operations. We have exposure to economic and other factors that may affect market demand for our products. As a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. Our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. Market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. To a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs and interest rates. All of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore drive demand for our components and products. Some of 17 Table of Contents these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Significant changes in these economic factors may negatively impact the demand for our products and our results of operations. Demand in the North American bedding and automotive markets was weak for most of 2006. If demand in these markets does not improve, our ability to achieve our long-term targets for sales, margins and earnings for the Company as a whole and for the Residential Furnishing and Specialized Product segments may be negatively impacted. Asian competition could adversely affect our operating results. We operate in markets that are highly competitive. Most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. We face increasing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished product from Asia. If we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, aluminum and chemicals, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed. If our customers move production of their finished products overseas, we believe that our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. At year-end 2006, we operated 12 facilities in China. If demand in China (and other foreign countries) increases at a more rapid rate than we are able to establish operations, our market share and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Also, we have experienced increased price competition in the U.S. from Chinese bedding component manufacturers. This has primarily occurred with low-end commodity products in markets easily served by major ocean ports. We have reacted to this competition in 2006 by selectively adjusting prices and developing new products that help our customers reduce total costs. If this price competition intensifies we could lose market share and our earnings could be negatively impacted. Higher energy costs could adversely affect our operating results. Higher prices for natural gas, electricity and fuel increase our production and delivery costs. Many of our large manufacturing operations are heavy users of natural gas and electricity. Our inability to respond to these cost increases by raising selling prices could negatively affect our operating results. In recent years, higher energy prices impacted consumer demand in certain markets. Higher energy prices leave less disposable income to purchase products that contain our components. Bedding demand has been soft in recent quarters, and we believe this is partially due to the impact higher energy prices have on the consumer. If energy prices increase, this could negatively impact demand for our products and reduce our sales, profit margins and earnings. We may not be able to continue improving operating performance in our Fixture & Display group. Our Fixture & Display group is operating at levels below our long term expectations. We were hampered in our efforts to improve operating margins in 2005 by new program start-up costs and integration inefficiencies associated with the RHC Spacemaster acquisition. In completing the Restructuring Plan we announced in September 2005, eight facilities in the Fixture & Display group have been consolidated, sold or closed. As a result of these restructuring activities, we have reduced our productive capacity in the Fixture & Display group by approximately $100 million. We are realizing expected restructuring benefits; however, margins are still not at desired levels. While overall demand in the Fixture & Display group has been difficult to predict, we are not anticipating a near-term change in the market. Earnings must continue to improve in our Fixture & Display group from current levels or further restructuring may be initiated. 18 Table of Contents Our assets are subject to potential goodwill impairment. A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other intangible assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. As of December 31, 2006 goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $1.3 billion, or 31%, of our total assets. We test goodwill and other assets for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. We could be required to recognize non-cash reductions in our net income caused by the impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, which could be material. As disclosed above, our Fixture & Display group has experienced deterioration in profitability compared to historical levels. The Restructuring Plan and other initiatives have led to improved earnings in the Fixture & Display group, but additional improvement is necessary. About $300 million of goodwill is associated with the Fixture & Display group. If earnings in this group fail to more consistently meet forecasted levels a goodwill impairment charge may be necessary. We may fail to meet our acquisition growth goals. One of our growth strategies is to increase our sales and earnings and expand our markets through acquisitions. In 2006 the Company acquired five businesses. We expect these acquisitions to add approximately $75 million in annual revenue. Furthermore, we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future when appropriate opportunities arise. However, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions that are sufficient to meet our goals. Further, our acquired companies may encounter unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources, which would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Our long term targets for sales, margins and earnings may not be reached if we fail to achieve our acquisition growth goals. We are exposed to foreign currency risk. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. In 2006, 21% of our sales were generated by international operations. The revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. Further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. We cannot predict whether foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries will have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 19 Table of Contents 