Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following significant factors, as well as others of which we are unaware or deem to be immaterial at this time, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future. Therefore, the following information should be considered carefully together with other information contained in this report. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows may result in our Company not being able to continue as a going concern. The Company’s overall cash position as of December 31, 2013 provides only limited liquidity to fund the Company’s day-to-day operations. The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. We may need to seek additional financing or sell our assets to support our continued operation; however, there are no assurances that any such financing or asset sale can be obtained or achieved on favorable terms, if at all. In view of these conditions, our ability to continue as a going concern depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations or to obtain the necessary financing. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time. The consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013 do not include any adjustment to the amounts and classification of assets and liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in business. Any such adjustment could be material. Revenues are largely derived from a small number of Properties and may dramatically decrease if we are not able to develop new revenue sources. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our licensing revenues from a small number of Properties which usually generate revenues only for a limited period of time. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we derived approximately 45%, or $549 of our licensing revenues from three Properties – “American Kennel Club”, “Dinosaur King” and “Huntik”. Our licensing revenues are also subject to the changing trends in the toy, game and entertainment industries. Consequently, our licensing revenues may dramatically decrease if we are not able to find other revenue sources. In addition, we do not control the timing of the release of products by licensees which can affect both the amount of licensing revenues earned and the periods during which such revenues are recognized. A significant decrease in our licensing revenues could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We expect to derive future product revenue from the sale of IsoBLOX™ related products. The IsoBLOX™ technology continues to be developed. There can be no assurance that these products will be commercially viable in the marketplace, that revenues will be derived from such products, or how soon such products will become available for sale, if at all. 5 Index We have been and may continue to be negatively affected by adverse general economic and other conditions. Conditions in the domestic and global economies are extremely unpredictable and our business has been impacted by changes in such conditions. Softening global economies, stock market uncertainty and wavering consumer confidence caused by economic weakness, the decline in the housing market, the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, war or other factors generally affecting economic conditions have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. Continued turmoil in U.S. and foreign credit markets, equity markets, and in the global financial services industry, and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. and foreign governments, have continued to place pressure on the global economy and affect overall consumer spending, spending by advertisers and the availability of credit to us, our clients, and our customers. If conditions in the global economy, U.S. economy or other key vertical or geographic markets remain uncertain or weaken further, they may have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The changing entertainment preferences of consumers could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results depend upon the appeal of our Properties, product concepts and programming to consumers. Consumer entertainment preferences, as well as industry trends and demands are continuously changing and are difficult to predict as they vary over time. In addition, as entertainment properties often have short life cycles, there can be no assurances that: (i) our current Properties, product concepts or programming will continue to be popular for any significant period of time; (ii) new Properties, product concepts or programming we represent or produce will achieve and or sustain popularity in the marketplace; (iii) a Property’s life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to recover revenues in excess of the costs of advance payments, guarantees, development, marketing, royalties and other costs relating to such Property; or (iv) we will successfully anticipate, identify and react to consumer preferences. Our failure to accomplish any of these events could result in reduced overall revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the volatility of consumer preferences could cause our revenues and net income to vary significantly between comparable periods. Revenues from Licensing are directly impacted by the amount of retail shelf space dedicated to our Properties. As an exclusive merchandising agent, we grant licenses to third parties to manufacture and sell all types of merchandise based on the Properties that we represent. The ability of these third parties to design, manufacture, and ultimately market and sell this merchandise through various distribution channels has a direct impact on our revenues. If these third parties are not successful in obtaining distribution or placement for this merchandise at retail, the performance of certain Properties could suffer which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We must continually seek new Properties from which we can derive revenues. It is difficult to predict whether a Property will be successful, and if so, for how long. Because of this, we are constantly seeking new Properties that are already successful or that we believe are likely to become successful in the future. If we are unable to identify and acquire the rights to successful new Properties, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 6 Index Our business is seasonal and highly dependent on our performance during the holiday season. A high percentage of our annual operating results have historically depended on our performance during the holiday season. Sales of our licensed toy and game concepts are seasonal and most retail sales of these products occur during the third and fourth fiscal quarters. As a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions and other unforeseen events during the holiday season, such as a terrorist attack or a military engagement, that negatively affect the retail environment or consumer buying patterns. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace. In the IsoBLOXTM and Sports Licensing/Distribution business segment, our principal competitors are large sporting goods and apparel companies (e.g., Nike, Evoshield and Under Armour) with consumer products/merchandise and licensing divisions. Many of these companies have substantially greater resources than we do and represent products which have been commercially successful for longer periods than our products. Our future success is dependent on certain key employees. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the skills, experience and efforts of a number of management personnel and other key employees. The loss of the services of any of our management personnel or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect the intellectual property rights that we own or license. It is possible that third parties may challenge our rights to such intellectual property. In addition, there is a risk of third parties infringing upon our licensors’ or our intellectual property rights and producing counterfeit products. These events may result in lost revenue as well as litigation, which may be expensive and time-consuming even if a favorable outcome is obtained. There can be no assurance that adequate remedies would be available for any infringement of the intellectual property rights owned or licensed by the Company. Any such failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. We may be subject to audit claims from our partners. We may be subject to audits by certain of our Property partners. There can be no assurance that the parties will conclude their discussions regarding the audit issues satisfactorily. Any such failure to successfully resolve any audit issues may result in litigation which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position or the results of our operations. Potential labor disputes may lead to increased costs or disrupt the operation of our business. The success of our business is dependent on our employees who are involved with our operations. Any labor dispute may adversely affect our business through increased costs which could adversely affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 7 Index 