Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following significant factors, as well as others of which we are unaware or deem to be immaterial at this time, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future. Therefore, the following information should be considered carefully together with other information contained in this report. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Operating under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code (“Chapter 11”) may restrict our ability to pursue our strategic and operational initiatives. Under Chapter 11, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond in a timely manner to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. The pursuit of the Bankruptcy Cases has consumed and will continue to consume a substantial portion of the time and attention of our corporate management and will impact how our business is conducted, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The requirements of the Bankruptcy Cases have consumed and will continue to consume a substantial portion of our corporate management’s time and attention and leave them with less time to devote to the operation of our business. This diversion of attention may materially adversely affect the conduct of our business, and, as a result, on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Creditors’ Committee will support the Debtors’ positions on matters to be presented to the Bankruptcy Court in the future or on any bankruptcy plan, once proposed. Disagreements between the Debtors and the Creditors’ Committee could protract the Bankruptcy Cases, negatively impact the Debtors’ ability to operate and delay the Debtors’ emergence from Chapter 11. 5 The Company has incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the Bankruptcy Cases. The Company’s results have been negatively impacted by the significant costs incurred by it in connection with the Bankruptcy Cases. The Company expects these costs to continue throughout the Bankruptcy proceedings and may materially adversely affect our business, and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience increased levels of employee attrition. During the pendency of the Bankruptcy Cases, we may experience increased levels of employee attrition, and our employees are facing considerable distraction and uncertainty. A loss of key personnel or material erosion of employee morale could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Because we have less than 300 record holders of our common stock, we may elect at any time to terminate our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act. If we choose to do so, our stock price would likely decline. Because we have less than 300 record holders of our common stock, we can suspend our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act at any time by filing a Form 15 with the SEC. If we were to terminate our reporting obligations, we would no longer be required to file periodic reports, including financial information, proxy solicitation materials, or other information with the SEC. This action would cause our common stock to be de-listed from the OTC Bulletin Board, which would likely negative affect the liquidity, trading volume and trading prices of our common stock. In addition, our ability to raise financing could be negatively impacted due to a lack of publicly available information about the Company. Trading in our securities during the pendency of the Bankruptcy Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. Our common stock may be cancelled and holders of such common stock may not receive any distribution with respect to, or be able to recover any portion of, their investments. It is not known at this stage of the Bankruptcy Cases if any plan of reorganization would allow for distributions with respect to our common stock. In the event of cancellation of these equity interests, amounts invested by such holders in common stock will not be recoverable. Trading prices for our common stock may bear little or no relationship to the actual recovery, if any, by the holders thereof in the Bankruptcy Cases. Accordingly, we urge extreme caution with respect to existing and future investments in our common stock. We have been and may continue to be negatively affected by adverse general economic and other conditions. Conditions in the domestic and global economies are extremely unpredictable and our business has been impacted by changes in such conditions. Softening global economies, stock market uncertainty and wavering consumer confidence caused by economic weakness, the decline in the housing market, the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, war or other factors generally affecting economic conditions have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. Recent turmoil in U.S. and foreign credit markets, equity markets, and in the global financial services industry, including the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. and foreign governments, have continued to place pressure on the global economy and affect overall consumer spending, spending by advertisers and the availability of credit to us, our clients, and our customers. If conditions in the global economy, U.S. economy or other key vertical or geographic markets remain uncertain or weaken further, they may have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The changing entertainment preferences of consumers could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results depend upon the appeal of our Properties, product concepts and programming to consumers. Consumer entertainment preferences, as well as industry trends and demands are continuously changing and are difficult to predict as they vary over time. In addition, as entertainment properties often have short life cycles, there can be no assurances that: (i) our current Properties, product concepts or programming will continue to be popular for any significant period of time; (ii) new Properties, product concepts or programming we represent or produce will achieve and or sustain popularity in the marketplace; (iii) a Property’s life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to recover revenues in excess of the costs of advance payments, guarantees, development, marketing, royalties and other costs relating to such Property; or (iv) we will successfully anticipate, identify and react to consumer preferences. 6 Our failure to accomplish any of these events could result in reduced overall revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the volatility of consumer preferences could cause our revenues and net income to vary significantly between comparable periods. Revenues from our Licensing segment are largely derived from a small number of Properties and are subject to changing industry trends. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our licensing revenues from a small number of Properties which usually generate revenues only for a limited period of time. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we derived approximately 70%, or $6,245 of our licensing revenues from two Properties. Our licensing revenues are also subject to the changing trends in the toy, game and entertainment industries. Consequently, our licensing revenues may be subject to dramatic increases and decreases from particular sources over time. In addition, we do not control the timing of the release of products by licensees which can affect both the amount of licensing revenues earned and the periods during which such revenues are recognized. A significant decrease in our licensing revenues could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Revenues from our Licensing segment are directly impacted by the amount of retail shelf space dedicated to our Properties. As an exclusive merchandising agent, we grant licenses to third parties to manufacture and sell all types of merchandise based on the Properties that we represent. The ability of these third parties to design, manufacture, and ultimately market and sell this merchandise through various distribution channels has a direct impact on our revenues. If these third parties are not successful in obtaining distribution or placement for this merchandise at retail, the performance of certain Properties could suffer which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We must continually seek new Properties from which we can derive revenues. It is difficult to predict whether a Property will be successful, and if so, for how long. Because of this, we are constantly seeking new Properties that are already successful or that we believe are likely to become successful in the future. If we are unable to identify and acquire the rights to successful new Properties, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is seasonal and highly dependent on our performance during the holiday season. A high percentage of our annual operating results have historically depended on our performance during the holiday season. Sales of our licensed toy and game concepts are seasonal and most retail sales of these products occur during the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Also, as a result of the increased demand for commercial time by children’s advertisers during the holiday season, a significant portion of the revenues of 4Kids Ad Sales is generated during the fourth fiscal quarter. The financial results of The CW4Kids will be affected by how successful it is in attracting viewers during the holiday season. As a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions and other unforeseen events during the holiday season, such as a terrorist attack or a military engagement, that negatively affect the retail environment or consumer buying patterns. In addition, a failure by us to supply programming to The CW4Kids during the holiday season could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace. Licensing. Our principal competitors in the Licensing segment are the large media companies (e.g., Disney, Time Warner and Nickelodeon, which is owned by Viacom) with consumer products/merchandise licensing divisions, toy companies, other licensing companies, and numerous individuals who act as merchandising agents. There are also many independent product development firms with which we compete. Many of these companies have substantially greater resources than we do and represent properties which have been commercially successful for longer periods than our Properties. We believe that it would be relatively easy for a potential competitor to enter this market in light of the relatively small investment required to commence operations as a merchandising agent. Advertising Media and Broadcast. Our Advertising Media and Broadcast segment also operates in a highly competitive marketplace against large media companies (e.g., Disney, Time Warner, CBS, NBC and Nickelodeon, which is owned by Viacom) with substantially greater resources and distribution networks than we have. Our ability to derive advertising revenues from the sale of commercial time on The CW4Kids, substantially depends on the popularity of the television shows that we broadcast. We also face significant competition from other television broadcasters and cable networks, which also broadcast children’s television shows on Saturday mornings. Saturday morning broadcast television for children has been losing popularity over the last few years to the children’s cable television channels such as Nickelodeon, Cartoon Network and the Disney Channel. In addition, the popularity of the internet, video on demand, digital video recording of programming 7 and other trends have caused a fragmentation of the audience. Both of these trends have resulted in lower advertising revenues from the sale of advertising time on The CW4Kids. The continued reduction of advertising revenues, as a result of these and other trends, has adversely affected our business and the results of operations. Television and Film Production/Distribution. Our Television and Film Production/Distribution segment competes with all forms of entertainment directed at children. There are a significant number of companies that produce and/or broadcast television programming and distribute theatrical motion pictures and home videos for the children’s audience. We also compete with these companies to obtain creative talent to write, adapt, score, provide voice-overs and produce the television programs and theatrical motion pictures marketed by us. Our broadcasting costs may increase or our advertising revenues may decrease due to events beyond our control. The success of our Advertising Media and Broadcast segment is largely dependent on the amount of advertising revenues generated from sales of network advertising on The CW4Kids. Recently, there has been increased scrutiny of food advertising directed at children as a result of childhood obesity concerns. In response to these concerns, many significant food advertisers have reduced or eliminated advertising of food products directed toward children resulting in a reduction in the advertising dollars spent in the children’s television and internet advertising marketplace. In addition, international, political and military developments may result in increases in broadcasting costs or loss of advertising revenue due to, among other things, the preemption of our programming. Our future success is dependent on certain key employees. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the skills, experience and efforts of a number of senior management personnel and other key employees. The loss of the services of any of our senior management personnel or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. On January 11, 2011, we announced that Alfred R. Kahn had retired and resigned from his position as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors, and as a member of our Board of Directors, effective January 10, 2011. Our Company’s Board of Directors has appointed Director Michael Goldstein as interim Chairman and our existing executive senior management personnel are currently responsible for running our operations. We are not currently seeking a replacement chief executive officer pending the outcome of the process currently being undertaken by a special committee of our Board of Directors formed for the purpose of exploring potential strategic alternatives. Due to financial uncertainty affecting the Company and our limited resources, we may have difficulty in attracting new executive talent. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect the intellectual property rights that we own or license. It is possible that third parties may challenge our rights to such intellectual property. In addition, there is a risk of third parties infringing upon our licensors’ or our intellectual property rights and producing counterfeit products. These events may result in lost revenue as well as litigation, which may be expensive and time-consuming even if a favorable outcome is obtained. There can be no assurance that adequate remedies would be available for any infringement of the intellectual property rights owned or licensed by the Company. Any such failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. We may be subject to audit claims from our partners. We may be subject to audits by certain of our Property partners. There can be no assurance that the parties will conclude their discussions regarding the audit issues satisfactorily. Any such failure to successfully resolve any audit issues may result in litigation which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position or the results of our operations. We must be able to respond to rapidly changing technology occurring within our industry. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to numerous changes in our industry resulting from technological developments such as the internet, broadband distribution of entertainment content and the adoption of digital television standards. These new distribution technologies may diminish the size of the audience watching broadcast television and require us to fundamentally change the way we market and distribute our Properties. For example, digital technology is likely to accelerate the convergence of broadcast, telecommunications, internet and other media and could result in material changes in the regulations, intellectual property usage and technical platforms on which our business relies. These changes could significantly decrease our revenues or require us to incur significant capital expenditures. 8 Potential labor disputes may lead to increased costs or disrupt the operation of our business. The success of our business is dependent on our employees who are involved with our domestic and international operations. Any labor dispute may adversely affect one or more of our business segments through increased costs of operating such segment or disruption of the operations of such segment which could adversely affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 