Risk Factors. The following significant factors, as well as others of which we are unaware or deem to be immaterial at this time, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future. Therefore, the following information should be considered carefully together with other information contained in this report. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 4 The New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) may delist our common stock which could have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. On April 14, 2009, we announced that we were not in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standards with respect to global market capitalization and stockholders’ equity as a result of our stockholders’ equity for the year ended December 31, 2008 being equal to $74,991, or approximately $9, below the minimum NYSE stockholders’ equity requirement in effect at that time. In accordance with NYSE rules, on May 21, 2009, we submitted a plan that we believed demonstrated our ability to achieve compliance with the continued listing standard within 18 months which was subject to the review of the Listings and Compliance Committee of the NYSE. The NYSE subsequently implemented a pilot program to amend its listing criteria such that a NYSE listed company that originally qualified to list under the “earnings test” such as 4Kids would be considered to be not in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standards if its average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30-day trading period is less than $50,000, and at the same time, its stockholders’ equity is less than $50,000 (the “Program”). The NYSE made a rule filing on March 1, 2010 with the SEC to extend the Program through June 30, 2010, and on February 26, 2010 submitted a proposed rule change to the SEC to make the Program permanent. On June 1, 2009, we received a notice from NYSE Regulation, Inc. (“NYSE Regulation”) indicating that we were deemed to be back in compliance with the NYSE’s stockholders’ equity requirement and informing us that if we do not meet the continued listing standards within 12 months of the date we were deemed in compliance, we would receive a formal notification letter from NYSE Regulation. The staff of NYSE Regulation would then examine the relationship between the two incidents of falling below continued listing standards and reevaluate our method of financial recovery from the first incident. The staff of NYSE Regulation would at that point take such action as it believes is appropriate, which, depending upon the circumstances could include truncating the procedures that would otherwise be applicable, or immediately initiating suspension and delisting procedures. As of December 31, 2009, our 30-day trading average market capitalization was approximately $19,200 and our shareholders’ equity was $35,117. Consequently, we believe that it is likely that we will receive a formal notification from NYSE Regulation regarding our failure to meet the NYSE’s continued listing standards. In addition, based on our recent market capitalization, we may fall below the $15 million minimum average market capitalization threshold for continued listing set forth in Section 802.01B of the NYSE Listed Corporation Manual, which pre-empts the NYSE’s plan/cure process applicable to other failures to meet its listing standards, and would result in immediate initiation of suspension and delisting procedures. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing. We have been and may continue to be negatively affected by adverse general economic and other conditions. Conditions in the domestic and global economies are extremely unpredictable and our business has been impacted by changes in such conditions. Softening global economies, stock market uncertainty and wavering consumer confidence caused by economic weakness, the decline in the housing market, the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, war or other factors generally affecting economic conditions have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. Recent turmoil in U.S. and foreign credit markets, equity markets, and in the global financial services industry, including the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. and foreign governments, have continued to place pressure on the global economy and affect overall consumer spending, spending by advertisers and the availability of credit to us, our clients, and our customers. If conditions in the global economy, U.S. economy or other key vertical or geographic markets remain uncertain or weaken further, they may have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The changing entertainment preferences of consumers could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results depend upon the appeal of our Properties, product concepts and programming to consumers. Consumer entertainment preferences, as well as industry trends and demands are continuously changing and are difficult to predict as they vary over time. In addition, as entertainment properties often have short life cycles, there can be no assurances that: 5 (i) our current Properties, product concepts or programming will continue to be popular for any significant period of time; (ii) new Properties, product concepts or programming we represent or produce will achieve and or sustain popularity in the marketplace; (iii) a Property’s life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to recover revenues in excess of the costs of advance payments, guarantees, development, marketing, royalties and other costs relating to such Property; or (iv) we will successfully anticipate, identify and react to consumer preferences. Our failure to accomplish any of these events could result in reduced overall revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the volatility of consumer preferences could cause our revenues and net income to vary significantly between comparable periods. We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flows from operations during recent years and may continue to do so in the future. We have experienced net losses, as well as negative cash flows from operations, over each of the past four fiscal years. If we do not become profitable and generate positive cash flows from operations, we could require additional sources of cash to fund continued operations. If additional sources of cash is required to support our business, we may not be able to generate such additional cash in a timely manner, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We cannot be certain that we will achieve profitability or positive cash flows from operations at any point in time. Revenues from our Licensing segment are largely derived from a small number of Properties and are subject to changing industry trends. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our licensing revenues from a small number of Properties which usually generate revenues only for a limited period of time. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we derived approximately 74%, or $17,755 of our licensing revenues from two Properties, of which 41%, or $9,786 represented a one-time payment received by the Company in October 2009 in consideration of its agreement to terminate its right to serve as the merchandise licensing agent for the “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles” Property prior to the scheduled expiration of its representation agreement with Mirage Group in 2012. In 2010, we are likely to receive only small amounts of licensing revenue from the “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles” Property during the first six months of the year after which our receipts of revenue shall terminate. Our licensing revenues are also subject to the changing trends in the toy, game and entertainment industries. Consequently, our licensing revenues may be subject to dramatic increases and decreases from particular sources over time. In addition, we do not control the timing of the release of products by licensees which can affect both the amount of licensing revenues earned and the periods during which such revenues are recognized. A significant decrease in our licensing revenues could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, due to the expiration or termination in 2010 of representation agreements between the Company and various licensors and the expiration of certain license agreements, the Company is likely to receive its final share of merchandise licensing revenues in 2010 from the following long-standing Properties: “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles”, “Monster Jam” and “Cabbage Patch Kids”. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to license new properties to replace the substantial revenue streams contributed by the “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles”, “Monster Jam” and “Cabbage Patch Kids” Properties to the Company in previous years. Revenues from our Licensing segment are directly impacted by the amount of retail shelf space dedicated to our Properties. As an exclusive merchandising agent, we grant licenses to third parties to manufacture and sell all types of merchandise based on the Properties that we represent. The ability of these third parties to design, manufacture, and ultimately market and sell this merchandise through various distribution channels has a direct impact on our revenues. If these third parties are not successful in obtaining distribution or placement for this merchandise at retail, the performance of certain Properties could suffer which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating margins could be adversely impacted by the mix of Properties we represent. Historically, the majority of the television episodes produced by our production studio were English language dubbed versions of previously produced foreign language programming. We were able to license television broadcast rights, home video rights and merchandising rights to such foreign language programming for rights fees that were substantially below the cost of producing original programming. Over the past several years, we have begun shifting our strategic focus toward the production of more original animated programming in an effort to obtain a higher percentage of revenues and build the value of our programming library. The investment required to produce original animated programming is substantially 6 greater than our historical cost of dubbing and adapting existing foreign language animated programming. Our production of original programming funded in whole or in part by us has resulted in a substantial increase in capitalized film costs that will be amortized based on overall market acceptance and projected revenues. To the extent that a Property performs at a level lower than our expectations, the ratio of amortization expense will increase and may adversely impact our operating margins and results of operations. If our original programming is not successful, we may be required to write-down capitalized film costs associated with the unsuccessful series, which will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We must continually seek new Properties from which we can derive revenues. It is difficult to predict whether a Property will be successful, and if so, for how long. Because of this, we are constantly seeking new Properties that are already successful or that we believe are likely to become successful in the future. If we are unable to identify and acquire the rights to successful new Properties, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is seasonal and highly dependent on our performance during the holiday season. A high percentage of our annual operating results have historically depended on our performance during the holiday season. Sales of our licensed toy and game concepts are seasonal and most retail sales of these products occur during the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Also, as a result of the increased demand for commercial time by children’s advertisers during the holiday season, a significant portion of the revenues of 4Kids Ad Sales is generated during the fourth fiscal quarter. The financial results of The CW4Kids will be affected by how successful it is in attracting viewers during the holiday season. As a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions and other unforeseen events during the holiday season, such as a terrorist attack or a military engagement, that negatively affect the retail environment or consumer buying patterns. In addition, a failure by us to supply programming to The CW4Kids during the holiday season could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace. Licensing. Our principal competitors in the area of merchandise licensing are the large media companies (e.g., Disney, Time Warner and Nickelodeon, which is owned by Viacom) with consumer products/merchandise licensing divisions, toy companies, other licensing companies, and numerous individuals who act as merchandising agents. There are also many independent product development firms with which we compete. Many of these companies have substantially greater resources than we do and represent properties which have been commercially successful for longer periods than our Properties. We believe that it would be relatively easy for a potential competitor to enter into this market in light of the relatively small investment required to commence operations as a merchandising agent. Advertising Media and Broadcast. Our Advertising Media and Broadcast segment also operates in a highly competitive marketplace against large media companies (e.g., Disney, Time Warner, CBS, NBC and Nickelodeon, which is owned by Viacom) with substantially greater resources and distribution networks than we have. Our ability to derive advertising revenues from the sale of commercial time on The CW4Kids, substantially depends on the popularity of the television shows that we broadcast. We also face significant competition from other television broadcasters and cable networks, which also broadcast children’s television shows on Saturday mornings. Saturday morning broadcast television for children has been losing popularity over the last few years to the children’s cable television channels such as Nickelodeon, Cartoon Network and the Disney Channel. In addition, the popularity of the internet, video on demand, digital video recording of programming and other trends have caused a fragmentation of the audience. Both of these trends have resulted in lower advertising revenues from the sale of advertising time on The CW4Kids. The continued reduction of advertising revenues, as a result of these and other trends, has adversely affected our business and the results of operations. Television and Film Production/Distribution. Our Television and Film Production/Distribution segment competes with all forms of entertainment directed at children. There are a significant number of companies that produce and/or broadcast television programming and distribute theatrical motion pictures and home videos for the children’s audience. We also compete with these companies to obtain creative talent to write, adapt, score, provide voice-overs and produce the television programs and theatrical motion pictures marketed by us. 7 Trading Card and Game Distribution. Our Trading Card and Game Distribution segment operates in a highly competitive market against strong competition such as: (i)Wizards of the Coast, which is owned by Hasbro and distributes the popular “Magic the Gathering” trading card game; (ii) Konami, a company that distributes “Yu-Gi-Oh!” trading cards in the U.S.; (iii) Upper Deck, a company that distributes “Yu-Gi-Oh!” trading cards in Europe and sports cards; (iv) Topps, a company that distributes sports cards; and (v) Nintendo of America and Pokémon USA, Inc., the companies that distribute the “Pokémon” trading card game. The “Chaotic” website which is part of the Company’s Trading Card and Game Distribution segment also competes with popular online multiplayer game websites such as “World of Warcraft”, the website run by Blizzard Entertainment, a subsidiary of Vivendi. Our broadcasting costs may increase or our advertising revenues may decrease due to events beyond our control. The success of our Advertising Media and Broadcast segment is largely dependent on the amount of advertising revenues generated from sales of network advertising on The CW4Kids. Recently, there has been increased scrutiny of food advertising directed at children as a result of childhood obesity concerns. In response to these concerns, many significant food advertisers have reduced or eliminated advertising of food products directed toward children resulting in a reduction in the advertising dollars spent in the children’s television and internet advertising marketplace. In addition, international, political and military developments may result in increases in broadcasting costs or loss of advertising revenue due to, among other things, the preemption of our programming. Our Trading Card and Game Distribution segment presents certain risks. Card inventory risk. A portion of our card sales are subject to returns. Although the Company maintains return provisions, returns considerably in excess of the Company’s provisions could materially and adversely affect our future plans and results. There may be issues with the functionality of the “Chaotic” website. Each “Chaotic” trading card has a unique code which enables the “Chaotic” card collector to enter or upload the “Chaotic” trading card codes to the companion website, www.chaoticgame.com. The “Chaotic” website enables each “Chaotic” card collector to battle online using the “Chaotic” cards that have been uploaded to the card collector’s online account. The “Chaotic” website is currently operated as a public beta version and is being developed and tested continually in such environment. There can be no assurance that the “Chaotic” website will not have operational issues which can be resolved in a timely manner. If the “Chaotic” website were not to operate properly, the success of the trading card game would be adversely affected. Such circumstances could require us to make additional substantial investments in order to support, enhance or upgrade the “Chaotic” trading game companion website beyond our current expectations. Failure by the Company to protect its proprietary intellectual property and information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of the “Chaotic” website depends, in part, on our ability to protect patents licensed by TC Digital and TC Websites covering the uploading of coded trading cards to a website where online game play and community activities occur. The failure by the Company to be able to protect successfully its proprietary intellectual property and information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success is dependent on certain key employees. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the skills, experience and efforts of a number of senior management personnel and other key employees. In certain instances, we have employment agreements in place as a method of retaining the services of these key employees. The loss of the services of any of our senior management personnel or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect the intellectual property rights that we own or license. It is possible that third parties may challenge our rights to such intellectual property. In addition, there is a risk of third parties infringing upon our licensors’ or our intellectual property rights and producing counterfeit products. These events may result in lost revenue as well as litigation, which may be expensive and time-consuming even if a favorable outcome is obtained. There can be no assurance that adequate remedies would be available for any infringement of the intellectual property rights owned or licensed by the Company. Any such failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. 8 We must be able to respond to rapidly changing technology occurring within our industry. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to numerous changes in our industry resulting from technological developments such as the internet, broadband distribution of entertainment content and the adoption of digital television standards. These new distribution technologies may diminish the size of the audience watching broadcast television and require us to fundamentally change the way we market and distribute our Properties. For example, digital technology is likely to accelerate the convergence of broadcast, telecommunications, internet and other media and could result in material changes in the regulations, intellectual property usage and technical platforms on which our business relies. These changes could significantly decrease our revenues or require us to incur significant capital expenditures. Potential labor disputes may lead to increased costs or disrupt the operation of our business. The success of our business is dependent on our employees who are involved with our domestic and international operations. Any labor dispute may adversely affect one or more of our business segments through increased costs of operating such segment or disruption of the operations of such segment which could adversely affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 