Item 1A. Risk Factors The following significant factors, as well as others of which we are unaware or deem to be immaterial at this time, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future. Therefore, the following information should be considered carefully together with other information contained in this report. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. -3- The changing entertainment preferences of consumers could adversely effect our business. Our business and operating results depend upon the appeal of our Properties, product concepts and programming to consumers. Consumer’s entertainment preferences, as well as industry trends and demands are continuously changing and are difficult to predict as they vary over time. In addition, as entertainment properties often have short life cycles, there can be no assurances that: (1) our current Properties, product concepts or programming will continue to be popular for any significant period of time; (2) new Properties, product concepts or programming we represent or produce will achieve and sustain popularity in the marketplace; (3) a Property's life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to recover revenues in excess of the costs of advance payments, guarantees, development, marketing, royalties and other costs relating to such Property; or (4) we will successfully anticipate, identify and react to consumer preferences. Our failure to accomplish any of these events could result in reduced overall revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the volatility of consumer preferences could cause our revenues and net income to vary significantly between comparable periods. Revenues from our Licensing segment are largely derived from a small number of Properties and are subject to changing industry trends. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our licensing revenues from a small number of Properties which usually generate revenues only for a limited period of time. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company derived approximately 42% of its revenues from two Properties. In addition, our control over the timing of the licensing royalty payments we receive is limited and some of these payments are based on quarterly royalty payments reported by our licensees. Our licensing revenues are also subject to the changing trends in the toy, game and entertainment industries. Consequently, our licensing revenues may be subject to dramatic increases and decreases from particular sources over time. A significant decrease in our licensing revenues could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Revenues from our licensing segment are directly impacted by the amount of retail shelf space dedicated to our Properties. As an exclusive merchandising agent, we grant licenses to third parties to manufacture and sell all types of merchandise based on the television series, Properties and product concepts we represent. The ability of these third parties to design, manufacture, and ultimately, market and sell this merchandise through various channels of retail trade has a direct impact on our revenues. If these third parties are not successful in obtaining adequate shelf space for this merchandise at retail, the performance of certain Properties could suffer which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating margins could be adversely impacted by the mix of Properties we represent. Historically, the majority of the television-based Properties we represented were existing episodes of foreign programming that we adapted for the United States and other markets. As our strategic focus shifts toward Properties like “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles”, where we are joint copyright owners of the episodes, the investment required to produce such original animated programming is substantially in excess of the historical cost of adapting existing animated programming. Following the commercial release of a Property, its overall market acceptance and resulting revenues will directly impact our amortization of the costs incurred to develop such Property. To the extent a Property performs at a level less than our expectations, the ratio of amortization expense to revenues realized will increase. This increase will adversely impact our operating margins and results of operations. We must continually seek new Properties from which we can derive revenues. It is difficult to predict whether a Property will be successful, and if so, for how long. Because of this, we are constantly seeking new Properties that are already successful or that we believe are likely to become successful in the future. If we are unable to identify and acquire the rights to successful new Properties, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. -4- Our business is seasonal and highly dependent on our performance during the holiday season. A high percentage of our annual operating results have historically depended on our performance during the holiday season. Sales of our licensed toy and game concepts are seasonal and most retail sales of these products occur during the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Also, as a result of the increased demand for commercial time by children’s advertisers during the holiday season, a significant portion of the revenues generated by Summit Media and 4Kids Ad Sales occur during the fourth fiscal quarter. The financial results of 4Kids TV are also affected by how successful it is in attracting viewers during the holiday season. As a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions and other unforeseen events during the holiday season, such as a terrorist attack or a military engagement, that negatively affect the retail environment or consumer buying patterns. In addition, a failure by us to supply programming to 4Kids TV during the holiday season could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace. Licensing. Our principal competitors in the Licensing segment are large media companies with theatrical distribution and television broadcast distribution (e.g., Disney, Time-Warner, Viacom), toy companies, other licensing companies and numerous individuals who act as merchandising agents. There are also many independent product development firms with which we compete. Many of these companies have substantially greater resources than we do and represent properties which have been commercially successful for longer periods than our Properties. We believe that it would be relatively easy for a potential competitor to enter into this market in light of the relatively small investment required to commence operations as a merchandising agent. However, the ultimate success of a new entrant in the field would depend on its access to toy and other manufacturers, access to distribution of television based properties, access to properties to be licensed, retail market acceptance of properties and its know-how in the negotiation and subsequent administration of licenses. Advertising Media and Broadcast. Our Advertising Media and Broadcast segment also operates in a highly competitive marketplace against companies with substantially greater resources and distribution networks than we have. Our ability to derive advertising revenue from the sale of commercial time on 4Kids TV depends, in substantial part, on the popularity of the television shows that we broadcast on 4Kids TV. We also face significant competition from other television broadcasters and cable networks, including competition from a successful television program that we produced (i.e. “Pokémon”), which is broadcast on Saturday mornings on a competing network. Television and Film Production/Distribution. Our Television and Film Production/Distribution segment competes with all forms of entertainment directed at children. There are a significant number of companies that produce and/or broadcast television programming and distribute theatrical motion pictures and home videos for the children’s audience. We also compete with these companies to obtain creative talent to write adapt, score, provide voice-overs and produce the television programs and theatrical motion pictures marketed by the Company and its subsidiaries. Our broadcasting costs may increase or our advertising revenues may decrease due to events beyond our control. The success of our Advertising Media and Broadcast segment is largely dependant on the amount of advertising revenues generated from sales of network advertising on 4Kids TV. Recently, there has been increased scrutiny of food advertising directed at children as a result of childhood obesity concerns. In response to these concerns, several significant food advertisers have reduced or eliminated advertising of food products directed toward children resulting in a reduction in the advertising dollars spent in the children’s advertising marketplace. In addition, international, political and military developments may result in increases in broadcasting costs or loss of advertising revenue due to, among other things, the preemption of 4Kids TV programming. Our future success is dependent on certain key employees. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the skills, experience and efforts of a number of senior management personnel and other key employees. In many instances, we have employment agreements in place as a method of retaining the services of these key employees. The loss of the services of any of the senior management personnel and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. -5- We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect the intellectual property rights that we own or license. It is possible that third parties may challenge our rights to such intellectual property. In addition, there is a risk of third parties infringing upon our or our licensors’ intellectual property rights and producing counterfeit products. These events may result in lost revenue as well as litigation, which may be expensive and time-consuming even if a favorable outcome is obtained. There can be no assurance that there are adequate remedies for any infringement. Any such failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. We may be negatively affected by adverse general economic and other conditions. Conditions in the domestic and global economies are extremely unpredictable and our business has been and in the future may be, impacted by changes in such conditions. Softening global economies, stock market uncertainty and wavering consumer confidence caused by the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, war or other factors generally affecting economic conditions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must be able to respond to rapidly changing technology occurring within our industry. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to numerous changes in our industry resulting from technological developments such as the internet, broadband distribution of entertainment content and the adoption of digital television standards. These new distribution technologies may diminish the size of the audience watching broadcast television and require us to fundamentally change the way we market and distribute our Properties. For example, digital technology is likely to accelerate the convergence of broadcast, telecommunications, internet and other media and could result in material changes in the regulations, intellectual property usage and technical platforms on which our business relies. These changes could significantly decrease our revenues or require us to incur significant capital expenditures. Potential labor disputes may lead to increased costs or disrupt the operation of our business. The success of our business is dependant on our employees who are involved with our domestic and international operations. Any labor dispute may adversely affect one or more of our business segments through increased costs of operating such segment or disruption of the operations of such segment which could adversely effect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 