Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following significant factors, as well as others of which we are unaware or deem to be immaterial at this time, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future. Therefore, the following information should be considered carefully together with other information contained in this report. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flows from operations during recent years and these financial challenges together with the possible loss of our license to the Yu-Gi-Oh! Property has caused substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and could lead to a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing. We have experienced substantial net losses, as well as negative cash flows from operations, in recent years, and have used substantial amounts of cash to fund our operating activities. Sales by us of certain securities held in our investment portfolio as well as certain other assets have significantly contributed to the funding of these operating losses. If we do not become profitable and generate positive cash flows from operations, we will require additional sources of cash to fund continued operations. If such additional funding is needed, we will consider all alternatives available to us, including, but not limited to sales of assets, issuance of equity or debt securities and third party arrangements. There can be no assurance, however, that we would be able to generate such additional ca sh in a timely manner or that such additional cash could be obtained on terms acceptable to us. In addition to the financial challenges we are facing, on March 24, 2011, the Company received a letter from the Licensors purporting to terminate the agreement dated July 1, 2008 between the Licensors and the Company with respect to the Yu-Gi-Oh! Agreement, which accounted for approximately 36% of the Company’s net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010, for alleged breaches of the Yu-Gi-Oh! Agreement by the Company. On March 24, 2011, the Licensors filed a lawsuit against the Company in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York also claiming that the Company has breached the Yu-Gi-Oh! Agreement and seeking more than $4,700 in damages. While the Company believes that the Licensors’ purported termination of the Yu-Gi-Oh! Agreement is invalid and ineffective, a finding that such purported termination is valid would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and would likely significantly impede the Company’s ability to continue its operations. If the Company’s continued attempts to resolve the dispute with the Licensors are unsuccessful, the Company intends to take all actions it deems necessary to preserve its business and assets, including the potential filing of a petition under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. 4 A bankruptcy filing by us would subject our business and operations to various risks, including but not limited to, the following: · A bankruptcy filing may adversely affect our business prospects, including our ability to continue to obtain and maintain the contracts necessary to operate our business on competitive terms; · We may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and employees through the bankruptcy process, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees; · There can be no assurance as to our ability to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any reorganization plan and meet future obligations; · There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization that are acceptable to the bankruptcy court and our creditors, equity holders and other parties in interest; · The value of our common stock could be reduced to zero as result of a bankruptcy filing. Our overall cash and investment position as of December 31, 2010 together with the realized and anticipated effects of the significant cost cutting initiatives we implemented during 2009 and 2010 provides only limited liquidity to fund our day-to-day operations. The financial challenges facing us as a result of its recent history of losses and the limited liquidity available to us to fund day-to-day operations, together with the potential loss of the benefits of the Yu-Gi-Oh! Agreement as a result of the actions of the Licensors raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to retain the benefits of the Yu-Gi-Oh Agreement and successfully dispute the Licensors d amages claims as well as our ability to generate additional revenues. Our common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange On June 1, 2010, our common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. Our common stock currently trades on the over-the-counter bulletin board market, although there are no assurances that it will continue to trade on this market. Over-the-counter (“OTC”) transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions on a stock exchange. The delisting and OTC status could harm the trading volume and liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price for our common stock might become more volatile. The delisting and OTC status could also cause a reduction in the number of investors willing or able to hold or acquire our common stock, transactions in our common stock could be delayed and securities analysts’ and news media coverage of us may be reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock. Delisting and OTC status could also make our common stock substantially less attractive as collateral for loans, for investment by potential financing sources under their internal policies or state legal investment laws or as consideration in future capital raising transactions. Furthermore, the delisting and OTC status may have other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, partners and employees. Our OTC status may also make it more difficult and expensive for us to comply with state and federal securities laws in connection with future financings, acquisitions or equity issuances to employees and other service providers, thereby making it more difficult and expensive for us to raise capital, acquire other businesses using our stock and compensate our employees using equity. We have been and may continue to be negatively affected by adverse general economic and other conditions. Conditions in the domestic and global economies are extremely unpredictable and our business has been impacted by changes in such conditions. Softening global economies, stock market uncertainty and wavering consumer confidence caused by economic weakness, the decline in the housing market, the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, war or other factors generally affecting economic conditions have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. Recent turmoil in U.S. and foreign credit markets, equity markets, and in the global financial services industry, including the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. and foreign governments, have continued to place pressure on the global economy and affect overall consumer spending, spending by advertisers and the availability of credit to us, our clients, and our customers. If conditions in the global economy, U.S. economy or other key vertical or geographic markets remain uncertain or weaken further, they may have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 The changing entertainment preferences of consumers could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results depend upon the appeal of our Properties, product concepts and programming to consumers. Consumer entertainment preferences, as well as industry trends and demands are continuously changing and are difficult to predict as they vary over time. In addition, as entertainment properties often have short life cycles, there can be no assurances that: (i) our current Properties, product concepts or programming will continue to be popular for any significant period of time; (ii) new Properties, product concepts or programming we represent or produce will achieve and or sustain popularity in the marketplace; (iii) a Property’s life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to recover revenues in excess of the costs of advance payments, guarantees, development, marketing, royalties and other costs relating to such Property; or (iv) we will successfully anticipate, identify and react to consumer preferences. Our failure to accomplish any of these events could result in reduced overall revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the volatility of consumer preferences could cause our revenues and net income to vary significantly between comparable periods. Revenues from our Licensing segment are largely derived from a small number of Properties and are subject to changing industry trends. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our licensing revenues from a small number of Properties which usually generate revenues only for a limited period of time. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived approximately 65%, or $7,745 of our licensing revenues from two Properties. Our licensing revenues are also subject to the changing trends in the toy, game and entertainment industries. Consequently, our licensing revenues may be subject to dramatic increases and decreases from particular sources over time. In addition, we do not control the timing of the release of products by licensees which can affect both the amount of licensing revenues earned and the periods during which such revenues are recognized. A significant decrease in our licensing revenues could have a ma terial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, due to the expiration or termination in 2010 of representation agreements between the Company and various licensors and the expiration of the “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles”, “Monster Jam” and “Cabbage Patch Kids” license agreements, the Company is likely to receive only a small share of merchandise licensing revenues in 2011 from those long-standing Properties. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to license new properties to replace the substantial revenue streams contributed by the “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles”, “Monster Jam” and “Cabbage Patch Kids” Properties to the Company in previous years. Revenues from our Licensing segment are directly impacted by the amount of retail shelf space dedicated to our Properties. As an exclusive merchandising agent, we grant licenses to third parties to manufacture and sell all types of merchandise based on the Properties that we represent. The ability of these third parties to design, manufacture, and ultimately market and sell this merchandise through various distribution channels has a direct impact on our revenues. If these third parties are not successful in obtaining distribution or placement for this merchandise at retail, the performance of certain Properties could suffer which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating margins could be adversely impacted by the mix of Properties we represent. Historically, the majority of the television episodes produced by our production studio were English language dubbed versions of previously produced foreign language programming. We were able to license television broadcast rights, home video rights and merchandising rights to such foreign language programming for rights fees that were substantially below the cost of producing original programming. Beginning in 2005, we began shifting our strategic focus toward the production of more original animated programming in an effort to obtain a higher percentage of revenues and build the value of our programming library. The investment required to produce original animated programming is substantially greater than our historical cost of dubbing and adapting existing foreign language animated programming. Our production of original programming funded in whole or in part by us has resulted in a substantial increase in capitalized film costs that will be amortized based on overall market acceptance and projected revenues. To the extent that a Property performs at a level lower than our expectations, the ratio of amortization expense will increase and may adversely impact our operating margins and results of operations. Our investment in original programming has not been successful and we have been required to write-down capitalized film costs associated with the unsuccessful series, which has had a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 6 We must continually seek new Properties from which we can derive revenues. It is difficult to predict whether a Property will be successful, and if so, for how long. Because of this, we are constantly seeking new Properties that are already successful or that we believe are likely to become successful in the future. If we are unable to identify and acquire the rights to successful new Properties, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is seasonal and highly dependent on our performance during the holiday season. A high percentage of our annual operating results have historically depended on our performance during the holiday season. Sales of our licensed toy and game concepts are seasonal and most retail sales of these products occur during the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Also, as a result of the increased demand for commercial time by children’s advertisers during the holiday season, a significant portion of the revenues of 4Kids Ad Sales is generated during the fourth fiscal quarter. The financial results of The CW4Kids will be affected by how successful it is in attracting viewers during the holiday season. As a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions and other unforeseen events during the holida y season, such as a terrorist attack or a military engagement, that negatively affect the retail environment or consumer buying patterns. In addition, a failure by us to supply programming to The CW4Kids during the holiday season could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace. Licensing. Our principal competitors in the Licensing segment are the large media companies (e.g., Disney, Time Warner and Nickelodeon, which is owned by Viacom) with consumer products/merchandise licensing divisions, toy companies, other licensing companies, and numerous individuals who act as merchandising agents. There are also many independent product development firms with which we compete. Many of these companies have substantially greater resources than we do and represent properties which have been commercially successful for longer periods than our Properties. We believe that it would be relatively easy for a potential competitor to enter this market in light of the relatively small investment required to commence operations as a merchandising agent. Advertising Media and Broadcast. Our Advertising Media and Broadcast segment also operates in a highly competitive marketplace against large media companies (e.g., Disney, Time Warner, CBS, NBC and Nickelodeon, which is owned by Viacom) with substantially greater resources and distribution networks than we have. Our ability to derive advertising revenues from the sale of commercial time on The CW4Kids, substantially depends on the popularity of the television shows that we broadcast. We also face significant competition from other television broadcasters and cable networks, which also broadcast children’s television shows on Saturday mornings. Saturday morning broadcast television for children has been losing popularity over the last few years to the childrenR 17;s cable television channels such as Nickelodeon, Cartoon Network and the Disney Channel. In addition, the popularity of the internet, video on demand, digital video recording of programming and other trends have caused a fragmentation of the audience. Both of these trends have resulted in lower advertising revenues from the sale of advertising time on The CW4Kids. The continued reduction of advertising revenues, as a result of these and other trends, has adversely affected our business and the results of operations. Television and Film Production/Distribution. Our Television and Film Production/Distribution segment competes with all forms of entertainment directed at children. There are a significant number of companies that produce and/or broadcast television programming and distribute theatrical motion pictures and home videos for the children’s audience. We also compete with these companies to obtain creative talent to write, adapt, score, provide voice-overs and produce the television programs and theatrical motion pictures marketed by us. Our broadcasting costs may increase or our advertising revenues may decrease due to events beyond our control. The success of our Advertising Media and Broadcast segment is largely dependent on the amount of advertising revenues generated from sales of network advertising on The CW4Kids. Recently, there has been increased scrutiny of food advertising directed at children as a result of childhood obesity concerns. In response to these concerns, many significant food advertisers have reduced or eliminated advertising of food products directed toward children resulting in a reduction in the advertising dollars spent in the children’s television and internet advertising marketplace. In addition, international, political and military developments may result in increases in broadcasting costs or loss of advertising revenue due to, among other things, the preempt ion of our programming. 7 Our future success is dependent on certain key employees. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the skills, experience and efforts of a number of senior management personnel and other key employees. In certain instances, we have employment agreements in place as a method of retaining the services of these key employees. The loss of the services of any of our senior management personnel or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. On January 11, 2011, we announced that Alfred R. Kahn had retired and resigned from his position as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors, and as a member of our Board of Directors, effective January 10, 2011. Our Company’s Board of Directors has appointe d Director Michael Goldstein as interim Chairman and our existing executive senior management personnel are currently responsible for running our operations. We are not currently seeking a replacement chief executive officer pending the outcome of the process currently being undertaken by a special committee of our Board of Directors formed for the purpose of exploring potential strategic alternatives. Due to financial uncertainty affecting the Company and our limited resources, we may have difficulty in attracting new executive talent. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect the intellectual property rights that we own or license. It is possible that third parties may challenge our rights to such intellectual property. In addition, there is a risk of third parties infringing upon our licensors’ or our intellectual property rights and producing counterfeit products. These events may result in lost revenue as well as litigation, which may be expensive and time-consuming even if a favorable outcome is obtained. There can be no assurance that adequate remedies would be available for any infringement of the intellectual property rights owned or licensed by the Company. Any such failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. We may be subject to audit claims from our partners. We are currently participating in audits by certain of our Property partners. The parties have met several times to discuss a resolution of the audit issues. There can be no assurance that the parties will conclude their discussions regarding the audit issues satisfactorily. Any such failure to successfully resolve the audit issues may result in litigation which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position or the results of our operations. We must be able to respond to rapidly changing technology occurring within our industry. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to numerous changes in our industry resulting from technological developments such as the internet, broadband distribution of entertainment content and the adoption of digital television standards. These new distribution technologies may diminish the size of the audience watching broadcast television and require us to fundamentally change the way we market and distribute our Properties. For example, digital technology is likely to accelerate the convergence of broadcast, telecommunications, internet and other media and could result in material changes in the regulations, intellectual property usage and technical platforms on which our business relies. These changes could significantly decrease our revenues or require us to in cur significant capital expenditures. Potential labor disputes may lead to increased costs or disrupt the operation of our business. The success of our business is dependent on our employees who are involved with our domestic and international operations. Any labor dispute may adversely affect one or more of our business segments through increased costs of operating such segment or disruption of the operations of such segment which could adversely affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 8 