Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following significant factors, as well as others of which we are unaware or deem to be immaterial at this time, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future. Therefore, the following information should be considered carefully together with other information contained in this report. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows may result in our Company not being able to continue as a going concern. The Company’s overall cash position as of December 31, 2012 provides only limited liquidity to fund the Company’s day-to-day operations. The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. We may need to seek additional financing to support our continued operation; however, there are no assurances that any such financing can be obtained on favorable terms, if at all. In view of these conditions, our ability to continue as a going concern depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations or to obtain the necessary financing. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time. The consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 do not include any adjustment to the amounts and classification of assets and liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in business. Any such adjustment could be material. Revenues are largely derived from a small number of Properties and may dramatically decrease if we are not able to develop new revenue sources. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our licensing revenues from a small number of Properties which usually generate revenues only for a limited period of time. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we derived approximately 75%, or $2,507 of our licensing revenues from one Property – “Yu-Gi-Oh!” which was sold pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement. Our licensing revenues are also subject to the changing trends in the toy, game and entertainment industries. Consequently, our licensing revenues may dramatically decrease if we are not able to find other revenue sources. In addition, we do not control the timing of the release of products by licensees which can affect both the amount of licensing revenues earned and the periods during which such revenues are recognized. A significant decrease in our licensing revenues could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Because we have less than 300 record holders of our common stock, we may elect at any time to terminate our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act. If we choose to do so, our stock price would likely decline. Because we have less than 300 record holders of our common stock, we can suspend our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act at any time by filing a Form 15 with the SEC. If we were to terminate our reporting obligations, we would no longer be required to file periodic reports, including financial information, proxy solicitation materials, or other information with the SEC. This action would cause our common stock to be de-listed from the OTC pink sheets, which would likely negative affect the liquidity, trading volume and trading prices of our common stock. In addition, our ability to raise financing could be negatively impacted due to a lack of publicly available information about the Company. We have been and may continue to be negatively affected by adverse general economic and other conditions. Conditions in the domestic and global economies are extremely unpredictable and our business has been impacted by changes in such conditions. Softening global economies, stock market uncertainty and wavering consumer confidence caused by economic weakness, the decline in the housing market, the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, war or other factors generally affecting economic conditions have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. Continued turmoil in U.S. and foreign credit markets, equity markets, and in the global financial services industry, and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. and foreign governments, have continued to place pressure on the global economy and affect overall consumer spending, spending by advertisers and the availability of credit to us, our clients, and our customers. If conditions in the global economy, U.S. economy or other key vertical or geographic markets remain uncertain or weaken further, they may have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Index The changing entertainment preferences of consumers could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results depend upon the appeal of our Properties, product concepts and programming to consumers. Consumer entertainment preferences, as well as industry trends and demands are continuously changing and are difficult to predict as they vary over time. In addition, as entertainment properties often have short life cycles, there can be no assurances that: (i) our current Properties, product concepts or programming will continue to be popular for any significant period of time; (ii) new Properties, product concepts or programming we represent or produce will achieve and or sustain popularity in the marketplace; (iii) a Property’s life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to recover revenues in excess of the costs of advance payments, guarantees, development, marketing, royalties and other costs relating to such Property; or (iv) we will successfully anticipate, identify and react to consumer preferences. Our failure to accomplish any of these events could result in reduced overall revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the volatility of consumer preferences could cause our revenues and net income to vary significantly between comparable periods. Revenues from Licensing are directly impacted by the amount of retail shelf space dedicated to our Properties. As an exclusive merchandising agent, we grant licenses to third parties to manufacture and sell all types of merchandise based on the Properties that we represent. The ability of these third parties to design, manufacture, and ultimately market and sell this merchandise through various distribution channels has a direct impact on our revenues. If these third parties are not successful in obtaining distribution or placement for this merchandise at retail, the performance of certain Properties could suffer which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We must continually seek new Properties from which we can derive revenues. It is difficult to predict whether a Property will be successful, and if so, for how long. Because of this, we are constantly seeking new Properties that are already successful or that we believe are likely to become successful in the future. If we are unable to identify and acquire the rights to successful new Properties, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is seasonal and highly dependent on our performance during the holiday season. A high percentage of our annual operating results have historically depended on our performance during the holiday season. Sales of our licensed toy and game concepts are seasonal and most retail sales of these products occur during the third and fourth fiscal quarters. As a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions and other unforeseen events during the holiday season, such as a terrorist attack or a military engagement, that negatively affect the retail environment or consumer buying patterns. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace. Our principal competitors are large media companies (e.g., Disney, Time Warner and Nickelodeon, which is owned by Viacom) with consumer products/merchandise licensing divisions, toy companies, other licensing companies, and numerous individuals who act as merchandising agents. There are also many independent product development firms with which we compete. Many of these companies have substantially greater resources than we do and represent properties which have been commercially successful for longer periods than our Properties. We believe that it would be relatively easy for a potential competitor to enter this market in light of the relatively small investment required to commence operations as a merchandising agent. 7 Index Our future success is dependent on certain key employees. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the skills, experience and efforts of a number of management personnel and other key employees. The loss of the services of any of our management personnel or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect the intellectual property rights that we own or license. It is possible that third parties may challenge our rights to such intellectual property. In addition, there is a risk of third parties infringing upon our licensors’ or our intellectual property rights and producing counterfeit products. These events may result in lost revenue as well as litigation, which may be expensive and time-consuming even if a favorable outcome is obtained. There can be no assurance that adequate remedies would be available for any infringement of the intellectual property rights owned or licensed by the Company. Any such failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. We may be subject to audit claims from our partners. We may be subject to audits by certain of our Property partners. There can be no assurance that the parties will conclude their discussions regarding the audit issues satisfactorily. Any such failure to successfully resolve any audit issues may result in litigation which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position or the results of our operations. We must be able to respond to rapidly changing technology occurring within our industry. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to numerous changes in our industry resulting from technological developments such as the internet, broadband distribution of entertainment content and the adoption of digital television standards. These new distribution technologies may diminish the size of the audience watching broadcast television and require us to fundamentally change the way we market and distribute our Properties. For example, digital technology is likely to accelerate the convergence of broadcast, telecommunications, internet and other media and could result in material changes in the regulations, intellectual property usage and technical platforms on which our business relies. These changes could significantly decrease our revenues or require us to incur significant capital expenditures. Potential labor disputes may lead to increased costs or disrupt the operation of our business. The success of our business is dependent on our employees who are involved with our operations. Any labor dispute may adversely affect our business through increased costs which could adversely affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 