Risk Factors. The following significant factors, as well as others of which we are unaware or deem to be immaterial at this time, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future. Therefore, the following information should be considered carefully together with other information contained in this report. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 4 The changing entertainment preferences of consumers could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results depend upon the appeal of our Properties, product concepts and programming to consumers. Consumer entertainment preferences, as well as industry trends and demands are continuously changing and are difficult to predict as they vary over time. In addition, as entertainment properties often have short life cycles, there can be no assurances that: (i) our current Properties, product concepts or programming will continue to be popular for any significant period of time; (ii) new Properties, product concepts or programming we represent or produce will achieve and or sustain popularity in the marketplace; (iii) a Property’s life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to recover revenues in excess of the costs of advance payments, guarantees, development, marketing, royalties and other costs relating to such Property; or (iv) we will successfully anticipate, identify and react to consumer preferences. Our failure to accomplish any of these events could result in reduced overall revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the volatility of consumer preferences could cause our revenues and net income to vary significantly between comparable periods. Revenues from our Licensing segment are largely derived from a small number of Properties and are subject to changing industry trends. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our licensing revenues from a small number of Properties which usually generate revenues only for a limited period of time. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we derived approximately 55% of our licensing revenues from two Properties. Our licensing revenues are also subject to the changing trends in the toy, game and entertainment industries. Consequently, our licensing revenues may be subject to dramatic increases and decreases from particular sources over time. In addition, we do not control the timing of the release of products by licensees which can affect both the amount of licensing revenues earned and the periods during which such revenues are recognized. A significant decrease in our licensing revenues could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Revenues from our Licensing segment are directly impacted by the amount of retail shelf space dedicated to our Properties. As an exclusive merchandising agent, we grant licenses to third parties to manufacture and sell all types of merchandise based on the Properties that we represent. The ability of these third parties to design, manufacture, and ultimately market and sell this merchandise through various distribution channels has a direct impact on our revenues. If these third parties are not successful in obtaining optimal and adequate shelf space for this merchandise at retail, the performance of certain Properties could suffer which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating margins could be adversely impacted by the mix of Properties we represent. Historically, the majority of the television episodes produced by our production studio were English language dubbed versions of previously produced foreign language programming. We were able to license television broadcast rights, home video rights and merchandising rights to such foreign language programming for rights fees that were substantially below the cost of producing original programming. Over the past several years, we have begun shifting our strategic focus toward the production of more original animated programming in an effort to obtain a higher percentage of revenues and build the value of our programming library. The investment required to produce original animated programming is substantially greater than our historical cost of dubbing and adapting existing foreign language animated programming. Our production of original programming funded in whole or in part by us has resulted in a substantial increase in capitalized film costs that will be amortized based on overall market acceptance and projected revenues. To the extent that a Property performs at a level lower than our expectations, the ratio of amortization expense will increase and may adversely impact our operating margins and results of operations. If our original programming is not successful, we may be required to write down millions of dollars of capitalized film costs associated with the unsuccessful series, which will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 5 We must continually seek new Properties from which we can derive revenues. It is difficult to predict whether a Property will be successful, and if so, for how long. Because of this, we are constantly seeking new Properties that are already successful or that we believe are likely to become successful in the future. If we are unable to identify and acquire the rights to successful new Properties, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is seasonal and highly dependent on our performance during the holiday season. A high percentage of our annual operating results have historically depended on our performance during the holiday season. Sales of our licensed toy and game concepts are seasonal and most retail sales of these products occur during the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Also, as a result of the increased demand for commercial time by children’s advertisers during the holiday season, a significant portion of the revenues of 4Kids Ad Sales is generated during the fourth fiscal quarter. The financial results of 4Kids TV and the future results of The CW Kids Block will be affected by how successful they are in attracting viewers during the holiday season. As a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions and other unforeseen events during the holiday season, such as a terrorist attack or a military engagement, that negatively affect the retail environment or consumer buying patterns. In addition, a failure by us to supply programming to 4Kids TV or The CW Kids Block during the holiday season could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace. Licensing. Our principal competitors in the area of merchandise licensing are the large media companies (e.g., Disney, Time Warner and Nickelodeon, which is owned by Viacom) with consumer products/merchandise licensing divisions, toy companies, other licensing companies, and numerous individuals who act as merchandising agents. There are also many independent product development firms with which we compete. Many of these companies have substantially greater resources than we do and represent properties which have been commercially successful for longer periods than our Properties. We believe that it would be relatively easy for a potential competitor to enter into this market in light of the relatively small investment required to commence operations as a merchandising agent. Advertising Media and Broadcast. Our Advertising Media and Broadcast segment also operates in a highly competitive marketplace against large media companies (e.g., Disney, Time Warner, CBS, NBC and Nickelodeon, which is owned by Viacom) with substantially greater resources and distribution networks than we have. Our ability to derive advertising revenues from the sale of commercial time on 4Kids TV, and beginning for the 2008-2009 broadcast season, The CW Kids Block, substantially depends on the popularity of the television shows that we broadcast. We also face significant competition from other television broadcasters and cable networks, which also broadcast children’s television shows on Saturday mornings. Saturday morning broadcast television for children has been losing popularity over the last few years to the children’s cable television channels such as Nickelodeon, Cartoon Network and the Disney Channel. In addition, the popularity of the internet, video on demand, digital video recording of programming and other trends have caused a fragmentation of the audience. Both of these trends have resulted in lower advertising revenues from the sale of advertising time on 4Kids TV. The continued reduction of advertising revenues, as a result of these and other trends, has adversely affected our business and the results of operations. Television and Film Production/Distribution. Our Television and Film Production/Distribution segment competes with all forms of entertainment directed at children. There are a significant number of companies that produce and/or broadcast television programming and distribute theatrical motion pictures and home videos for the children’s audience. We also compete with these companies to obtain creative talent to write, adapt, score, provide voice-overs and produce the television programs and theatrical motion pictures marketed by us. Trading Card and Game Distribution. Our Trading Card and Game Distribution segment operates in a highly competitive market against strong competition such as: (i) Wizards of the Coast, which is owned by Hasbro and distributes the popular “Magic the Gathering" trading card game; (ii) Upper Deck, a company that distributes “Yu-Gi-Oh!” trading cards and sports cards; (iii) Topps, a company that distributes sports cards; and (iv) Nintendo of America and Pokémon USA, Inc., the companies that distribute the “Pokémon” trading card game. The “Chaotic” website which is part of the our Trading Card and Game Distribution segment is also competing with popular online multiplayer game websites such as “World of Warcraft”, the website run by Blizzard Entertainment, a subsidiary of Vivendi. 6 Our broadcasting costs may increase or our advertising revenues may decrease due to events beyond our control. The success of our Advertising Media and Broadcastsegment is largely dependent on the amount of advertising revenues generated from sales of network advertising on 4Kids TV and beginning with the 2008-2009 broadcast season, The CW Kids Block. Recently, there has been increased scrutiny of food advertising directed at children as a result of childhood obesity concerns. In response to these concerns, several significant food advertisers have reduced or eliminated advertising of food products directed toward children resulting in a reduction in the advertising dollars spent in the children’s television and internet advertising marketplace. In addition, international, political and military developments may result in increases in broadcasting costs or loss of advertising revenue due to, among other things, the preemption of our programming. Our Trading Card and Game Distribution segment presents certain risks. Our trading card business is a relatively new business with a limited operating history. We expect to invest an aggregate amount between approximately $15 and $20 million in TC Digital and TC Websites. These companies have only a limited operating history and both operate in a highly competitive trading card marketplace. TC Digital is initially distributing one product, the “Chaotic” trading card game. If the “Chaotic” trading card game is not successful, we will incur substantial losses. We commenced distribution of the “Chaotic” trading card game to the comic book and hobby store distribution channels in October 2007. Additionally, we began to distribute the “Chaotic” trading card game to mass market distribution channels in January 2008. If the trading card game is not successful when initially distributed to the comic and hobby store and mass market distribution channels, it is possible that we will not receive substantial re-orders from these distribution channels. Additionally, if distribution in the U.S. is not successful, it is possible that international distribution could be adversely affected. If such events were to occur, it would have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Card production delays or shortfalls and card inventory risk. Raw materials required for production of the Company’s products are generally available. However, the unavailability of certain raw materials or a significant increase in their cost could have a material adverse affect on our future plans and operating results. Our production of cards to meet anticipated retailer demand could cause an inventory surplus and result in markdowns and increased inventory carrying costs for us on even our most successful products. Additionally, if we underestimate demand for our products, we may be unable to provide adequate supplies of popular products to retailers in a timely fashion, and may consequently lose sales opportunities. A small percentage of our card sales are subject to returns. Although the Company maintains return provisions, returns considerably in excess of the Company’s provisions or a change in the percentage of card sales on a returnable basis could materially and adversely affect our future plans and results. There may be issues with the functionality of the “Chaotic” website. Each “Chaotic” trading card has a unique code which enables the “Chaotic” card collector to enter or upload the “Chaotic” trading card codes to the companion website, www.chaoticgame.com. The “Chaotic” website enables each “Chaotic” card collector to battle online using the “Chaotic” cards that have been uploaded to the card collector’s online account. The “Chaotic” website is currently operated as a public beta version and is being developed and tested continually in such environment. There can be no assurance that the “Chaotic” website will not have operational issues which can be resolved in a timely manner. If the “Chaotic” website were not to operate properly, the success of the trading card game would be adversely affected. Such circumstances could require us to make additional substantial investments in order to support, enhance or upgrade the “Chaotic” trading game companion website beyond our current expectations. Advertising revenues from the “Chaotic” website may be less than anticipated. Visitors to the “Chaotic” website are not charged a fee for playing the “Chaotic” trading card game online and the website will be supported by card royalty revenues and anticipated advertising revenues. There can be no assurance that card royalty revenues and anticipated advertising revenues will be sufficient to support the costs expected to be incurred in the operation and maintenance of the website. If card royalty revenues and anticipated advertising revenues are not sufficient to cover the costs of operating the website, the losses may adversely impact our business and the results of operations. Failure by the Company to protect its proprietary intellectual property and information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of the “Chaotic” website depends, in part, on our ability to protect patents licensed by TC Digital and TC Websites covering the uploading of coded trading cards to a website where online game play and community activities occur. The failure by the Company to be able to protect successfully its proprietary intellectual property and information could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Dependence on limited number of suppliers. The Company currently has a single source of supply for its trading cards. The loss of this supplier for any reason could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's future plans and results. Additionally, failure of the manufacturer to supply the Company with quality products on a timely basis could have a material adverse affect on the sales of the “Chaotic” trading cards. Our future success is dependent on certain key employees. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the skills, experience and efforts of a number of senior management personnel and other key employees. In certain instances, we have employment agreements in place as a method of retaining the services of these key employees. The loss of the services of any of our senior management personnel or other key employees could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect the intellectual property rights that we own or license. It is possible that third parties may challenge our rights to such intellectual property. In addition, there is a risk of third parties infringing upon our licensors’ or our intellectual property rights and producing counterfeit products. These events may result in lost revenue as well as litigation, which may be expensive and time-consuming even if a favorable outcome is obtained. There can be no assurance that adequate remedies would be available for any infringement of the intellectual property rights owned or licensed by the Company. Any such failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights may have a material adverse affect on our competitive position. We may be negatively affected by adverse general economic and other conditions. Conditions in the domestic and global economies are extremely unpredictable and our business has been and in the future may be, impacted by changes in such conditions. Softening global economies, stock market uncertainty and wavering consumer confidence caused by economic weakness, the decline in the housing market, the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, war or other factors generally affecting economic conditions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must be able to respond to rapidly changing technology occurring within our industry. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to numerous changes in our industry resulting from technological developments such as the internet, broadband distribution of entertainment content and the adoption of digital television standards. These new distribution technologies may diminish the size of the audience watching broadcast television and require us to fundamentally change the way we market and distribute our Properties. For example, digital technology is likely to accelerate the convergence of broadcast, telecommunications, internet and other media and could result in material changes in the regulations, intellectual property usage and technical platforms on which our business relies. These changes could significantly decrease our revenues or require us to incur significant capital expenditures. Potential labor disputes may lead to increased costs or disrupt the operation of our business. The success of our business is dependent on our employees who are involved with our domestic and international operations. Any labor dispute may adversely affect one or more of our business segments through increased costs of operating such segment or disruption of the operations of such segment which could adversely affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 8 Item 