ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Listed below are certain risk factors associated with us and our businesses. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. Our assets consist primarily of investments in our operating subsidiaries, and we are dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries to service our liabilities. A significant portion of our assets consists of ownership interests in our subsidiaries and affiliates. A majority of our cash flows are generated by our subsidiaries, and our ability to service our liabilities and to pay dividends on our common stock depends to a large extent upon the cash dividends or other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and they have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay cash dividends or other distributions to us. In addition, in some cases our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or other distributions could be subject to restrictions as a result of debt covenants, applicable tax laws, foreign currency exchange regulations or other restrictions imposed by current or future agreements. Events beyond our control, including changes in general business and economic conditions, could adversely impact the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. If our subsidiaries should become unable to make sufficient cash dividends or other distributions to us, our ability to service our liabilities and to pay dividends on our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, if the level of dividends and other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries were to decrease to such a level that we were required to liquidate any of our investments in the securities of our subsidiaries or affiliates in order to generate funds to satisfy our liabilities, we may be required to sell such securities at a time or times at which we would not be able to realize what we believe to be the actual value of such assets. Demand for, and prices of, certain of our products are cyclical and we may experience prolonged depressed market conditions for our products, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. A significant portion of our revenues is attributable to sales of TiO2. Pricing within the global TiO2 industry over the long term is cyclical, and changes in industry economic conditions, especially in Western industrialized nations, can significantly impact our earnings and operating cash flows. This may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Historically, the markets for many of our TiO2 products have experienced alternating periods of tight supply, causing selling prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of capacity additions, and demand reductions resulting in oversupply and declining selling prices and profit margins. At times, our costs to produce TiO2 may increase during periods when our selling prices are declining, which would further depress our profit margins. Future growth in demand for TiO2 may not be sufficient to alleviate any future conditions of excess industry capacity, and such conditions may not be sustained or may be further aggravated by anticipated or unanticipated capacity additions or other events. The demand for TiO2 during a given year is also subject to annual seasonal fluctuations. TiO2 sales are generally higher in the first half of the year than in the second half of the year due in part to the increase in paint production in the spring to meet the spring and summer painting season demand. The titanium industry has historically derived a substantial portion of its business from the commercial aerospace sector. TIMET’s business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than the titanium industry as a whole. Consequently, the cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace sector has been the principal driver of fluctuations in TIMET’s performance. We believe we are in the beginning of a long term sustain demand for titanium; however, outside events could adversely affect the commercial aerospace sector, such as future terrorist attacks, world health crises or reduced orders from commercial airlines resulting from continued operating losses at the airlines. If these events were to occur, industry wide titanium demand could decline rapidly and significantly which in turn would significantly decrease TIMET’s results of operations or liquidity. We sell several of our products in mature and highly competitive industries and face price pressures in the markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. The global markets in which Kronos, CompX, TIMET and WCS operate their businesses are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the industries in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products or make it more difficult for us to compete with our competitors. In addition, in some of our businesses new competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities so they could manufacture products that compete with our products. The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Higher costs or limited availability of our raw materials may reduce our earnings or decrease our liquidity. The number of sources and availability of certain raw materials is specific to the particular geographical regions in which our facilities are located. For example, titanium-containing feedstocks suitable for use in our TiO2 and titanium metal facilities are available from a limited number of suppliers around the world. While chlorine is generally widely available, TIMET obtains its chlorine requirements for its Nevada production facility from a single supplier near its plant. In addition, TIMET cannot supply internally all of its needs for all grades of titanium sponge and titanium scrap, and is dependent on third parties for a substantial portion of its raw material requirements. In addition to use by titanium manufacturers, titanium scrap is used in certain steel-making operations. Current demand for these steel products, especially from China, have produced a significant increase in demand for titanium scrap. Political and economic instability in the countries from which we purchase certain raw material supplies could adversely affect their availability. If our worldwide vendors are not able to meet their contractual obligations and we were otherwise unable to obtain necessary raw materials or if we would have to pay more for our raw materials and other operating costs, we may be required to reduce production levels or reduce our gross margins if we were unable to pass price increased onto our customers, which may decrease our liquidity and operating income and results of operations. We could incur significant costs related to legal and environmental remediation matters. NL formerly manufactured lead pigments for use in paint. NL and others pigment manufacturers have been named as defendants in various legal proceedings seeking damages for personal injury, property damage and governmental expenditures allegedly caused by the use of lead-based paints. These lawsuits seek recovery under a variety of theories, including public and private nuisance, negligent product design, negligent failure to warn, strict liability, breach of warranty, conspiracy/concert of action, aiding and abetting, enterprise liability, market share or risk contribution liability, intentional tort, fraud and misrepresentation, violations of state consumer protection statutes, supplier negligence and similar claims. The plaintiffs in these actions generally seek to impose on the defendants responsibility for lead paint abatement and health concerns associated with the use of lead-based paints, including damages for personal injury, contribution and/or indemnification for medical expenses, medical monitoring expenses and costs for educational programs. As with all legal proceedings, the outcome is uncertain. Any liability NL might incur in the future could be material. See also Item 3. Certain properties and facilities used in our former businesses are the subject of litigation, administrative proceedings or investigations arising under various environmental laws. These proceedings seek cleanup costs, personal injury or property damages and/or damages for injury to natural resources. Some of these proceedings involve claims for substantial amounts. Environmental obligations are difficult to assess and estimate for numerous reasons, and we may incur costs for environmental remediation in the future in excess of amounts currently estimated. Any liability we might incur in the future could be material. See also Item 3. Adverse changes to or interruptions in TIMET’s relationships with its major aerospace customers could reduce its revenues, profitability and liquidity. TIMET’s business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than the titanium industry as a whole. Sales under long-term agreements with certain customers in the aerospace industry account for a significant portion of TIMET’s revenues. If we are unable to renew or maintain our relationships with our major aerospace customers, including The Boeing Company, Rolls Royce, Snecma, UTC and Wyman Gordon Company, TIMET’s sales could decrease substantially, resulting in lower equity in earnings and net income to us. TIMET’s failure to develop new markets will result in our continued dependence on the cyclical commercial aerospace industry. TIMET is devoting resources to developing new markets and applications for its titanium products, principally in the automotive, oil and gas and other emerging markets in an effort to reduce our dependence on the commercial aerospace market, which historically has had volatile swings in titanium demand. Developing new applications involves substantial risk and uncertainties because titanium must compete with less expensive alternative materials in these potential markets or applications. Significant time may be required for to develop these new markets or applications for our products and we may not be successful. In addition, we are uncertain to the extent to which we will face competition from titanium and other manufacturers. The rapid increase in titanium prices may cause our customers to look for alternatives to titanium in their products. The price for melted and mill titanium has on average increased 71% and 35%, respectively, in each of the last two years as a result of a sharp increase in titanium demand that has exceeded industry expansion. If prices for titanium are sustained at this record level, new markets and application opportunities for titanium may diminish as the use of titanium becomes too costly for many manufacturers. In addition, manufacturers that currently use titanium for their products may look for less expensive alternatives for titanium in existing products and applications. If these events were to occur, TIMET’s sales and operating results could decrease substantially, resulting in lower equity in earnings and net income to us. Reductions in, or the complete elimination of, any or all tariffs on imported titanium products into the United States could lead to increased imports of foreign sponge, ingot and mill products into the U.S. which could decrease pricing for our titanium products. In the U.S. titanium market, the increasing presence of foreign participants has become a significant competitive factor. Until 1993, imports of foreign titanium products had not been significant primarily as a result of the relative currency exchange rates and, with respect to Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, import duties (including antidumping duties). However, since 1993, imports of titanium sponge, ingot and mill products, principally from Russia and Kazakhstan, have increased and have had a significant competitive impact on the U.S. titanium industry. Generally, imports of titanium products into the U.S. are subject to a 15% “normal trade relations” tariff. For tariff purposes, titanium products are broadly classified as either wrought (billet, bar, sheet, strip, plate and tubing) or unwrought (sponge, ingot and slab). From time-to-time, the U.S. government has granted preferential trade status to certain titanium products imported from particular countries (notably wrought titanium products from Russia, which carried no U.S. import duties from approximately 1993 until 2004). It is possible that such preferential status could be granted again in the future. While TIMET has resisted efforts to eliminate duties or tariffs on titanium products, we may not be successful in the future. Our development of new component products as well as innovative features for our current component products is critical to sustaining and growing our Component Product Segment sales. Historically, our ability to provide value-added custom engineered component products that address requirements of technology and space utilization has been a key element of our success. The introduction of new products and features requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of such products with potential customers. The ability to implement such coordination may be affected by factors beyond our control. While we will continue to emphasize the introduction of innovative new products that target customer-specific opportunities, there can be no assurance that any new products we introduce will achieve the same degree of success that we have achieved with our existing products. Introduction of new products typically requires us to increase production volume on a timely basis while maintaining product quality. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in increasing production volumes, including delays, quality control problems and shortages of qualified personnel. As we attempt to introduce new products in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase production volume without encountering these or other problems, which might negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our leverage may impair our financial condition or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We have a significant amount of debt, substantially all of which relates to Kronos’ Senior Secured Notes and our loans from Snake River Sugar Company. Our level of debt could have important consequences to our stockholders and creditors, including: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our liabilities; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · requiring that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends on our common stock, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate requirements; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors. In addition to our indebtedness, we are party to various lease and other agreements pursuant to which we are committed to make minimum payments. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures, depends on our ability to generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow additional funds under our subsidiaries’ credit facilities may in some instances depend in part on our subsidiaries’ ability to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial covenants contained in the applicable credit agreements. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to allow us to pay our debts when they become due and to fund our other liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt on favorable terms, if at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows or to refinance our debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 