ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Listed below are certain risk factors associated with us and our businesses. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. Our assets consist primarily of investments in our operating subsidiaries, and we are dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries to service our liabilities. A significant portion of our assets consists of ownership interests in our subsidiaries and affiliates. A majority of our cash flows are generated by our subsidiaries, and our ability to service our liabilities and to pay dividends on our common stock depends to a large extent upon the cash dividends or other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries and affiliates are separate and distinct legal entities and they have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay cash dividends or other distributions to us. In addition, in some cases our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or other distributions could be subject to restrictions as a result of debt covenants, applicable tax laws or other restrictions imposed by current or future agreements. Events beyond our control, including changes in general business and economic conditions, could adversely impact the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. If our subsidiaries should become unable to make sufficient cash dividends or other distributions to us, our ability to service our liabilities and to pay dividends on our common stock could be adversely affected. In this regard, in the first quarter of 2009 Kronos announced the suspension of its regularly quarterly dividend in consideration of the challenges and opportunities that exist in the TiO2 pigment industry. We currently believe we will have sufficient liquidity to service our liabilities in 2010. In February 2010, our Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2010 cash dividend of $.10 per share to shareholders of record as of March 10, 2010 to be paid on March 31, 2010. However, the declaration and payment of future dividends, and the amount thereof, is discretionary and is dependent upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements for businesses, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. The amount and timing of past dividends is not necessarily indicative of the amount or timing of any future dividends which might be paid. In addition, if the level of dividends and other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries were to decrease to such a level that we were required to liquidate any of our investments in the securities of our subsidiaries or affiliates in order to generate funds to satisfy our liabilities, we may be required to sell such securities at a time or times at which we would not be able to realize what we believe to be the actual value of such assets. Demand for, and prices of, certain of our products are influenced by changing market conditions and we are currently operating in a depressed worldwide market for our products, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Approximately 90% of our revenues are attributable to sales of TiO2. Pricing within the global TiO2 industry over the long term is cyclical, and changes in economic conditions, especially in Western industrialized nations, can significantly impact our earnings and operating cash flows. The current worldwide economic downturn has depressed sales volumes in 2009, principally in the first half of the year, we are unable to predict with a high degree of certainty when demand will return to the levels experienced prior to the commencement of the downturn. This may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Historically, the markets for many of our products have experienced alternating periods of increasing and decreasing demand. Relative changes in the selling prices for our products are one of the main factors that affect the level of our profitability. In periods of increasing demand, our selling prices and profit margins generally will tend to increase, while in periods of decreasing demand our selling prices and profit margins generally tend to decrease. Huntsman closed one of its European facilities and Tronox closed its Savannah, Georgia facility in 2009. We believe further shutdowns or closures in the industry are possible. The closures may not be sufficient to alleviate the current excess industry capacity, and such conditions may be further aggravated by anticipated or unanticipated capacity additions or other events. The demand for TiO2 during a given year is also subject to annual seasonal fluctuations. TiO2 sales are generally higher in the second and third quarters of the year. This is due in part to the increase in paint production in the spring to meet demand during the spring and summer painting season. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion on production and price changes. We sell several of our products in mature and highly-competitive industries and face price pressures in the markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. The global markets in which Kronos, CompX and WCS operate their businesses are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and these competitors may be better able to withstand negative market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the industries in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products or make it more difficult for us to compete with our competitors. In addition, in some of our businesses new competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities so they could manufacture products that compete with our products. The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Higher costs or limited availability of our raw materials may reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity. The number of sources and availability of certain raw materials is specific to the particular geographical regions in which our facilities are located. For example, titanium-containing feedstocks suitable for use in producing our TiO2 are available from a limited number of suppliers around the world. Political and economic instability in the countries from which we purchase our raw material supplies could adversely affect their availability. If our worldwide vendors were not able to meet their contractual obligations and we were otherwise unable to obtain necessary raw materials or if we would have to pay more for our raw materials and other operating costs, we may be required to reduce production levels or reduce our gross margins if we were unable to pass price increases onto our customers, which may decrease our liquidity, operating income and results of operations. We could incur significant costs related to legal and environmental remediation matters. NL formerly manufactured lead pigments for use in paint. NL and other pigment manufacturers have been named as defendants in various legal proceedings seeking damages for personal injury, property damage and governmental expenditures allegedly caused by the use of lead-based paints. These lawsuits seek recovery under a variety of theories, including public and private nuisance, negligent product design, negligent failure to warn, strict liability, breach of warranty, conspiracy/concert of action, aiding and abetting, enterprise liability, market share or risk contribution liability, intentional tort, fraud and misrepresentation, violations of state consumer protection statutes, supplier negligence and similar claims. The plaintiffs in these actions generally seek to impose on the defendants responsibility for lead paint abatement and health concerns associated with the use of lead-based paints, including damages for personal injury, contribution and/or indemnification for medical expenses, medical monitoring expenses and costs for educational programs. As with all legal proceedings, the outcome is uncertain. Any liability NL might incur in the future could be material. See also Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Certain properties and facilities used in our former businesses are the subject of litigation, administrative proceedings or investigations arising under various environmental laws. These proceedings seek cleanup costs, personal injury or property damages and/or damages for injury to natural resources. Some of these proceedings involve claims for substantial amounts. Environmental obligations are difficult to assess and estimate for numerous reasons, and we may incur costs for environmental remediation in the future in excess of amounts currently estimated. Any liability we might incur in the future could be material. Our failure to enter into new markets with our current component products businesses would result in the continued significant impact of fluctuations in demand within the office furniture manufacturing industry on our operating results. In an effort to reduce our dependence on the office furniture market for certain products and to increase our participation in other markets, we have been devoting resources to identifying new customers and developing new applications for those products in markets outside of the office furniture industry, such as home appliances, tool boxes and server racks. Developing these new applications for our products involves substantial risk and uncertainties due to our limited experience with customers and applications in these markets, as well as facing competitors who are already established in these markets. We may not be successful in developing new customers or applications for our products outside of the office furniture industry. Significant time may be required to develop new applications and uncertainty exists as to the extent to which we will face competition in this regard. Our development of innovative features for current products is critical to sustaining and growing our Component Product Segment’s sales. Historically, our ability to provide value-added custom engineered component products that address requirements of technology and space utilization has been a key element of our success. We spend a significant amount of time and effort to refine, improve and adapt our existing products for new customers and applications. Since expenditures for these types of activities are not considered research and development expense under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the amount of our research and development expenditures, which is not significant, is not indicative of the overall effort involved in the development of new product features. The introduction of new product features requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of the new product features with current and potential customers. The ability to coordinate these activities with current and potential customers may be affected by factors beyond our control. While we will continue to emphasize the introduction of innovative new product features that target customer-specific opportunities, there can be no assurance that any new product features we introduce will achieve the same degree of success that we have achieved with our existing products. Introduction of new product features typically requires us to increase production volume on a timely basis while maintaining product quality. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in increasing production volumes, including delays, quality control problems and shortages of qualified personnel or raw materials. As we attempt to introduce new product features in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase production volume without encountering these or other problems, which might negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. Negative worldwide economic conditions could continue to result in a decrease in our sales and an increase in our operating costs, which could continue to adversely affect our business and operating results. If the current worldwide economic downturn continues, many of our direct and indirect customers may continue to delay or reduce their purchases of the products we manufacture or products that utilize our products. In addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing for their working capital needs. If the negative conditions in the global credit markets continue to prevent our customers' access to credit, product orders may continue to decrease which could result in lower sales. Likewise, if our suppliers continue to face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. These actions could continue to result in reductions in our sales, increased price competition and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Negative global economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers' accounts receivable which would adversely affect our financial results. We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. Although we have an ongoing process of evaluating customers’ financial condition, we could suffer significant losses if a customer fails and/or is unable to pay. A significant loss of an accounts receivable would have a negative impact on our financial results. Our leverage may impair our financial condition or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We have a significant amount of debt, primarily related to Kronos’ Senior Secured Notes, our loans from Snake River Sugar Company and our revolving credit facility with Contran. Our level of debt could have important consequences to our stockholders and creditors, including: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our liabilities; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · requiring that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends on our common stock, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate requirements; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors. In addition to our indebtedness, we are party to various lease and other agreements pursuant to which we are committed to pay approximately $423 million in 2010. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures, depends on our ability to generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow additional funds under our subsidiaries’ credit facilities will in some instances depend in part on our subsidiaries’ ability to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial covenants contained in the applicable credit agreements. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to allow us to pay our debts when they become due and to fund our other liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt in a timely manner on favorable terms, if at all in the current credit markets. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows or to refinance our debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Global climate change legislation could negatively impact our financial results or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We operate production facilities in several countries, and we believe all of our worldwide production facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws. In many of the countries in which we operate, legislation has been passed, or proposed legislation is being considered, to limit green house gases through various means, including emissions permits and/or energy taxes. In several of our production facilities, we consume large amounts of energy, including electricity and natural gas. To date the permit system in effect in the various countries in which we operate has not had a material adverse effect on our financial results. However, if green house gas legislation were to be enacted in one or more countries, it could negatively impact our future results from operations through increased costs of production, particularly as it relates to our energy requirements. If such increased costs of production were to materialize, we may be unable to pass price increases onto our customers to compensate for increased production costs, which may decrease our liquidity, operating income and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 