ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. We have described below some of the more significant risks which we and our subsidiaries face. There may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business or the business of our subsidiaries. Each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity of us or one or more of our subsidiaries, which in turn could negatively affect the value of our common stock. You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports that we may file with the Securities and Exchange Commission or make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. We have significant liquidity commitments During 2010, we have certain liquidity commitments that could require the use of our existing cash resources. As of December 31, 2009, our corporate expenditures (exclusive of Liggett, Vector Tobacco and New Valley) and other potential liquidity requirements over the next 12 months included the following: • cash interest expense of approximately $63.8 million, • dividends on our outstanding common shares (currently at an annual rate of approximately $115 million), and • other corporate expenses and taxes. In order to meet the above liquidity requirements as well as other liquidity needs in the normal course of business, we will be required to use cash flows from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents. Should these resources be insufficient to meet the upcoming liquidity needs, we may also be required to liquidate investment securities available for sale and other long-term investments, or, if available, draw on Liggett’s credit facility. While there are actions we can take to reduce our liquidity needs, there can be no assurance that such measures can be achieved. We and our subsidiaries have a substantial amount of indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries have significant indebtedness and debt service obligations. At December 31, 2009, we and our subsidiaries had total outstanding indebtedness (including the embedded derivative liabilities related to our convertible notes) of $510 million. We must redeem $11 million of our 3.875% Variable Interest Senior Convertible 15 Table of Contents Debentures by June 15, 2011 and may be required to purchase $99 million of the debentures on June 15, 2012. Approximately $157.5 million of our 3.75% convertible notes mature in 2014 and $250 million of our 11% senior secured notes matures in 2015. In addition, subject to the terms of any future agreements, we and our subsidiaries will be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. There is a risk that we will not be able to generate sufficient funds to repay our debt. If we cannot service our fixed charges, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are a holding company and depend on cash payments from our subsidiaries, which are subject to contractual and other restrictions, in order to service our debt and to pay dividends on our common stock. We are a holding company and have no operations of our own. We hold our interests in our various businesses through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, VGR Holding and New Valley. In addition to our own cash resources, our ability to pay interest on our debt and to pay dividends on our common stock depends on the ability of VGR Holding and New Valley to make cash available to us. VGR Holding’s ability to pay dividends to us depends primarily on the ability of Liggett, its wholly-owned subsidiary, to generate cash and make it available to VGR Holding. Liggett’s revolving credit agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A. contains a restricted payments test that limits the ability of Liggett to pay cash dividends to VGR Holding. The ability of Liggett to meet the restricted payments test may be affected by factors beyond its control, including Wachovia’s unilateral discretion, if acting in good faith, to modify elements of such test. Our receipt of cash payments, as dividends or otherwise, from our subsidiaries is an important source of our liquidity and capital resources. If we do not have sufficient cash resources of our own and do not receive payments from our subsidiaries in an amount sufficient to repay our debts and to pay dividends on our common stock, we must obtain additional funds from other sources. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain additional funds at all or on terms acceptable to us. Our inability to service these obligations and to continue to pay dividends on our common stock would significantly harm us and the value of our common stock. Our 11% senior secured notes contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. The indenture governing our 11% senior secured notes due 2015 contains covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; • create liens with respect to our assets; • make investments, loans or advances; • prepay subordinated indebtedness; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • merge, consolidate, reorganize or sell our assets. In addition, Liggett’s revolving credit agreement requires us to meet specified financial ratios. These covenants may restrict our ability to expand or fully pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of the indenture governing the senior secured notes and the Liggett revolving credit agreement may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants, including those contained in the indenture governing the senior secured notes and the Liggett’s credit agreement, could result in a default under our indebtedness, which could cause those and other obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay it. The indenture governing the senior secured notes contain restrictive covenants, which, among other things, restrict our ability to pay certain dividends or make other restricted payments or enter into transactions with 16 Table of Contents affiliates if our Consolidated EBITDA, as defined in the indenture, is less than $50 million for the four quarters prior to such transaction. Liggett faces intense competition in the domestic tobacco industry. Liggett is considerably smaller and has fewer resources than its major competitors, and, as a result, has a more limited ability to respond to market developments. Management Science Associates data indicate that the three largest cigarette manufacturers controlled approximately 84.3% of the United States cigarette market during 2009. Philip Morris is the largest and most profitable manufacturer in the market, and its profits are derived principally from its sale of premium cigarettes. Philip Morris had approximately 62.1% of the premium segment and 47.1% of the total domestic market during 2009. During 2009, all of Liggett’s sales were in the discount segment, and its share of the total domestic cigarette market was 2.7%. Philip Morris and RJR Tobacco (which is now part of Reynolds American), the two largest cigarette manufacturers, have historically, because of their dominant market share, been able to determine cigarette prices for the various pricing tiers within the industry. Market pressures have historically caused the other cigarette manufacturers to bring their prices into line with the levels established by these two major manufacturers. Philip Morris and Reynolds American dominate the domestic cigarette market and had a combined market share of approximately 73% at December 31, 2009. This concentration of United States market share could make it more difficult for Liggett and Vector Tobacco to compete for shelf space in retail outlets and could impact price competition in the market, either of which could have a material adverse affect on their sales volume, operating income and cash flows, which in turn could negatively affect the value of our common stock. Liggett’s business is highly dependent on the discount cigarette segment. Liggett depends more on sales in the discount cigarette segment of the market, relative to the full-price premium segment, than its major competitors. All of Liggett’s unit volume in 2009 and 2008 was generated in the discount segment. The discount segment is highly competitive, with consumers having less brand loyalty and placing greater emphasis on price. While the three major manufacturers all compete with Liggett in the discount segment of the market, the strongest competition for market share has recently come from a group of smaller manufacturers and importers, most of which sell low quality, deep discount cigarettes. While Liggett’s share of the discount market was 9.2% in 2009 and 2008, a decrease from 9.3% in 2007, Management Science Associates’ data indicate that the discount market share of these other smaller manufacturers and importers was approximately 39.4% in 2009, 38.5% in 2008 and 37.0% in 2007. If pricing in the discount market continues to be impacted by these smaller manufacturers and importers, margins in Liggett’s only current market segment could be negatively affected, which in turn could negatively affect the value of our common stock. Liggett’s market share is susceptible to decline. In years prior to 2000, Liggett suffered a substantial decline in unit sales and associated market share. Liggett’s unit sales and market share increased during each of 2000, 2001 and 2002, and its market share increased in 2003 while its unit sales declined. Liggett’s market share, which did not change in 2008, increased compared to the prior years in 2009, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004. This earlier market share erosion resulted in part from Liggett’s highly leveraged capital structure that existed until December 1998 and its limited ability to match other competitors’ wholesale and retail trade programs, obtain retail shelf space for its products and advertise its brands. These declines also resulted from adverse developments in the tobacco industry, intense competition and changes in consumer preferences. According to Management Science Associates’ data, Liggett’s overall domestic market share during 2009 was 2.7% compared to 2.5% during 2008 and 2007. Liggett’s share of the discount segment was 9.2% during 2009 and 2008, down from 9.3% in 2007. If Liggett’s market share declines, Liggett’s sales volume, operating income and cash flows could be materially adversely affected, which in turn could negatively affect the value of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents The domestic cigarette industry has experienced declining unit sales in recent periods. Industry-wide shipments of cigarettes in the United States have been generally declining for a number of years, with Management Science Associates’ data indicating that domestic industry-wide shipments decreased by approximately 8.6% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and by approximately 3.3% in 2008 as compared to 2007. We believe that industry-wide shipments of cigarettes in the United States will generally continue to decline as a result of numerous factors. These factors include health considerations, diminishing social acceptance of smoking, and a wide variety of federal, state and local laws limiting smoking in restaurants, bars and other public places, as well as increases in federal and state excise taxes and settlement-related expenses which have contributed to high cigarette price levels in recent years. If this decline in industry-wide shipments continues and Liggett is unable to capture market share from its competitors, or if the industry as a whole is unable to offset the decline in unit sales with price increases, Liggett’s sales volume, operating income and cash flows could be materially adversely affected, which in turn could negatively affect the value of our common stock. Liggett’s cigarettes are subject to substantial and increasing regulation and taxation, which has a negative effect on revenue and profitability. Tobacco products are subject to substantial federal and state excise taxes in the United States. On February 4, 2009, President Obama signed an increase of $0.617 in the federal excise tax per pack of cigarettes, for a total of $1.01 per pack of cigarettes, and significant tax increases on other tobacco products, to fund expansion of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program, referred to as the SCHIP. These tax increases came into effect on April 1, 2009. The increases in federal excise tax under the SCHIP are substantial, and, as a result, Liggett’s sales volume and profitability has been and may continue to be adversely impacted. In addition to federal and state excise taxes, certain city and county governments also impose substantial excise taxes on tobacco products sold. Increased excise taxes are likely to result in declines in overall sales volume and shifts by consumers to less expensive brands. A wide variety of federal, state and local laws limit the advertising, sale and use of cigarettes have proliferated in recent years. For example, many local laws prohibit smoking in restaurants and other public places. Private businesses also have adopted regulations that prohibit or restrict, or are intended to discourage, smoking. Such laws and regulations also are likely to result in a decline in the overall sales volume of cigarettes. The newly enacted Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act may adversely affect our sales and operating profit. On June 22, 2009, President Obama signed into law the “Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act” (H.R. 1256). The law grants the FDA broad authority over the manufacture, sale, marketing and packaging of tobacco products, although the FDA is prohibited from issuing regulations banning all cigarettes or all smokeless tobacco products, or requiring the reduction of nicotine yields of a tobacco product to zero. Among other measures, the law (under various deadlines): • increases the number of health warnings required on cigarette and smokeless tobacco products, increases the size of warnings on packaging and in advertising, requires the FDA to develop graphic warnings for cigarette packages, and grants the FDA authority to require new warnings; • requires practically all tobacco product advertising to eliminate color and imagery and instead consist solely of black text on white background; • imposes new restrictions on the sale and distribution of tobacco products, including significant new restrictions on tobacco product advertising and promotion as well as the use of brand and trade names; • bans the use of “light,” “mild,” “low” or similar descriptors on tobacco products; • bans the use of “characterizing flavors” in cigarettes other than tobacco or menthol; • gives the FDA the authority to impose tobacco product standards that are appropriate for the protection of the public health (by, for example, requiring reduction or elimination of the use of particular constituents or 18 Table of Contents components, requiring product testing, or addressing other aspects of tobacco product construction, constituents, properties or labeling); • requires manufacturers to obtain FDA review and authorization for the marketing of certain new or modified tobacco products; • requires pre-market approval by the FDA for tobacco products represented (through labels, labeling, advertising, or other means) as presenting a lower risk of harm or tobacco-related disease; • requires manufacturers to report ingredients and harmful constituents and requires the FDA to disclose certain constituent information to the public; • mandates that manufacturers test and report on ingredients and constituents identified by the FDA as requiring such testing to protect the public health, and allows the FDA to require the disclosure of testing results to the public; • requires manufacturers to submit to the FDA certain information regarding the health, toxicological, behavioral or physiologic effects of tobacco products; • prohibits use of tobacco containing a pesticide chemical residue at a level greater than allowed under federal law; • requires the FDA to establish “good manufacturing practices” to be followed at tobacco manufacturing facilities; • requires tobacco product manufacturers (and certain other entities) to register with the FDA; • authorizes the FDA to require the reduction of nicotine (although it may not require the reduction of nicotine yields of a tobacco product to zero) and the potential reduction or elimination of other constituents, including menthol; • imposes (and allows the FDA to impose) various recordkeeping and reporting requirements on tobacco product manufacturers; and • grants the FDA the regulatory authority to impose broad additional restrictions. The law also requires establishment, within the FDA’s new Center for Tobacco Products, of a Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee to provide advice, information and recommendations with respect to the safety, dependence or health issues related to tobacco products, including: • a recommendation on modified risk applications; • a recommendation on the effects of tobacco product nicotine yield alteration and whether there is a threshold level below which nicotine yields do not produce dependence; • a report on the public health impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes; and • a report on the public health impact of dissolvable tobacco products. The law imposes user fees on certain tobacco product manufacturers in order to pay for the costs of regulation. User fees will be allocated among tobacco product classes according to a formula set out in the legislation, and then among manufacturers and importers within each class based on market share. The FDA user fees for Liggett and Vector Tobacco for 2009 were $2.3 million and we estimate that they will be significantly higher in the future. The law also imposes significant new restrictions on the advertising and promotion of tobacco products. For example, the law requires the FDA to finalize certain portions of regulations previously adopted by the FDA in 1996 (which were struck down by the Supreme Court in 2000 as beyond the FDA’s authority). As written, these regulations would significantly limit the ability of manufacturers, distributors and retailers to advertise and promote tobacco products, by, for example, restricting the use of color, graphics and sound effects in advertising, limiting the use of outdoor advertising, restricting the sale and distribution of non-tobacco items and services, gifts, and sponsorship of events and imposing restrictions on the use for cigarette or smokeless tobacco products of trade or 19 Table of Contents brand names that are used for non-tobacco products. The law also requires the FDA to issue future regulations regarding the promotion and marketing of tobacco products sold through non-face-to-face transactions. It is likely that the new tobacco law could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States, including sales of Liggett’s and Vector Tobacco’s brands. Total compliance and related costs are not possible to predict and depend substantially on the future requirements imposed by the FDA under the new tobacco law. Costs, however, could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the companies’ financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, failure to comply with the new tobacco law and with FDA regulatory requirements could result in significant financial penalties and could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operation of both Liggett and Vector Tobacco. At present, we are not able to predict whether the new tobacco law will impact Liggett and Vector Tobacco to a greater degree than other companies in the industry, thus affecting its competitive position. Furthermore, Liggett and Vector Tobacco provide ingredient information annually, as required by law, to the states of Massachusetts, Texas and Minnesota. Several other states are considering ingredient disclosure legislation. Over the years, various state and local governments have continued to regulate tobacco products, including smokeless tobacco products. These regulations relate to, among other things, the imposition of significantly higher taxes, increases in the minimum age to purchase tobacco products, sampling and advertising bans or restrictions, ingredient and constituent disclosure requirements and significant tobacco control media campaigns. Additional state and local legislative and regulatory actions will likely be considered in the future, including, among other things, restrictions on the use of flavorings. Additional federal or state regulation relating to the manufacture, sale, distribution, advertising, labeling, or information disclosure of tobacco products could further reduce sales, increase costs and have a material adverse effect on our business. Litigation will continue to harm the tobacco industry. Liggett could be subjected to substantial liabilities and bonding requirements from litigation relating to cigarette products. Adverse litigation outcomes could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to operate due to their impact on cash flows. We and our Liggett subsidiary, as well as the entire cigarette industry, continue to be challenged on numerous fronts. New cases continue to be commenced against Liggett and other cigarette manufacturers. As of December 31, 2009, there were approximately 7,200 individual suits, including the Engle progeny cases described below, seven purported class actions and four health care cost recovery actions pending in the United States in which Liggett and/or us were named defendants. It is likely that similar legal actions, proceedings and claims will continue to be filed against Liggett. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the billions of dollars, are specifically pled in these cases, in addition to compensatory and other damages. It is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending cases including the certification of additional class actions. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in any tobacco-related litigation could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Liggett could face difficulties in obtaining a bond to stay execution of a judgment pending appeal. A civil lawsuit was filed by the United States federal government seeking disgorgement of approximately $289 billion from various cigarette manufacturers, including Liggett. In August 2006, the trial court entered a Final Judgment and Remedial Order against each of the cigarette manufacturing defendants, except Liggett. The Final Judgment, among other things, ordered the following relief against the non-Liggett defendants: (i) defendants are enjoined from committing any act of racketeering concerning the manufacturing, marketing, promotion, health consequences or sale of cigarettes in the United States; (ii) defendants are enjoined from making any material false, misleading, or deceptive statement or representation concerning cigarettes that persuades people to purchase cigarettes; and (iii) defendants are permanently enjoined from utilizing “lights”, “low tar”, “ultra lights”, “mild” or “natural” descriptors, or conveying any other express or implied health messages in connection with the marketing or sale of cigarettes as of January 1, 2007. 20 Table of Contents No monetary damages were awarded other than the government’s costs. In October 2006, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia stayed the Final Judgment pending appeal. Both the government and all defendants, other than Liggett, have filed petitions for writ of certiorari to the United States Supreme Court. In its petition for writ of certiorari, the government is seeking reinstatement of its claims for remedies, including disgorgement of industry profits. Although this case has been concluded as to Liggett, it is unclear what impact, if any, the Final Judgment will have on the cigarette industry as a whole. To the extent that the Final Judgment leads to a decline in industry-wide shipments of cigarettes in the United States or otherwise imposes regulations which adversely affect the industry, Liggett’s sales volume, operating income and cash flows could be materially adversely affected, which in turn could negatively affect the value of our common stock. In December 2008, the United States Supreme Court, in Altria Group Inc. v. Good, ruled that the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act did not preempt the state law claims asserted by the plaintiffs and that they could proceed with their claims under the Maine Unfair Trade Practices Act. This ruling has resulted in additional class action cases in other states. Although Liggett is not a party in the Good case, an adverse ruling or commencement of additional “lights” related class actions could have a material adverse impact on us. There are currently five individual tobacco-related actions pending where Liggett is the only tobacco company defendant. In Ferlanti v. Liggett Group, a Florida state court jury awarded compensatory damages of $1.2 million against Liggett, but found that the plaintiff was 40% at fault. Therefore, plaintiff was awarded $720,000 in compensatory damages plus $96,000 in expenses. Punitive damages were not awarded. Liggett appealed the award. In May 2009, the court granted plaintiff’s motion for an award of attorneys’ fees but the amount has not yet been determined. In Hausrath v. Philip Morris, a case pending in New York state court, plaintiffs recently dismissed all defendants other than Liggett. The other three individual actions, in which Liggett is the only tobacco company defendant, are dormant. As new cases are commenced, the costs associated with defending these cases and the risks relating to the inherent unpredictability of litigation continue to increase. Individual tobacco-related cases have increased as a result of the Florida Supreme Court’s ruling in Engle. In May 2003, a Florida intermediate appellate court overturned a $790 million punitive damages award against Liggett and decertified the Engle v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. smoking and health class action. In July 2006, the Florida Supreme Court affirmed in part and reversed in part the May 2003 intermediate appellate court decision. Among other things, the Florida Supreme Court affirmed the decision decertifying the class on a prospective basis and the order vacating the punitive damages award, but preserved several of the trial court’s Phase I findings (including that: (i) smoking causes lung cancer, among other diseases; (ii) nicotine in cigarettes is addictive; (iii) defendants placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous; (iv) the defendants concealed material information; (v) all defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that were defective; and (vi) all defendants were negligent) and allowed plaintiffs to proceed to trial on individual liability issues (using the above findings) and compensatory and punitive damage issues, provided they commence their individual lawsuits within one year of the date the court’s decision became final on January 11, 2007, the date of the court’s mandate. In December 2006, the Florida Supreme Court added the finding that defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that, at the time of sale or supply, did not conform to the representations made by defendants. In June 2002, the jury in a Florida state court action entitled Lukacs v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, awarded $37.5 million in compensatory damages, jointly and severally, in a case involving Liggett and two other cigarette manufacturers, which amount was subsequently reduced by the Court. The jury found Liggett 50% responsible for the damages incurred by the plaintiff. The Lukacs case was the first case to be tried as an individual Engle class member suit following entry of final judgment by the Engle trial court. In November 2008, the court entered final judgment in the amount of $24.835 million (for which Liggett is 50% responsible), plus interest from June 2002. The defendants appealed the final judgment. Plaintiff has filed a motion seeking an award of attorneys’ fees from Liggett based on their prior proposal for settlement. Pursuant to the Florida Supreme Court’s July 2006 ruling in Engle, former class members had one year from January 11, 2007 to file individual lawsuits. In addition, some individuals who filed suit prior to January 11, 2007, 21 Table of Contents and who claim they meet the conditions in Engle, are attempting to avail themselves of the Engle ruling. Lawsuits by individuals requesting the benefit of the Engle ruling, whether filed before or after the January 11, 2007 mandate, are referred to as the “Engle progeny cases”. As of December 31, 2009, there were approximately 7,160 Engle progeny cases pending where Liggett, we and other cigarette manufacturers were named as defendants. These cases include approximately 8,585 plaintiffs. Approximately 42 cases are scheduled for trial in 2010. As of December 31, 2009, ten Engle progeny cases had been tried resulting in eight plaintiff verdicts and two defense verdicts. In one of the cases, a judgment against Liggett was entered in the amount of $156,000. It is possible that additional cases could be decided unfavorably and that there could be further adverse developments in the Engle case. Liggett may enter into discussions in an attempt to settle particular cases if it believes it is appropriate to do so. We cannot predict the cash requirements related to any future settlements and judgments, including cash required to bond any appeals, and there is a risk that those requirements will not be able to be met. Regulation and legislation may negatively impact sales of tobacco products and our financial condition. A wide variety of federal, state and local laws limit the advertising, sale and use of cigarettes and these laws have proliferated in recent years. For example, many local laws prohibit smoking in restaurants and other public places, and many employers have initiated programs restricting or eliminating smoking in the workplace. There are various other legislative efforts pending on the federal and state level which seek to, among other things, eliminate smoking in public places, further restrict displays and advertising of cigarettes, require additional warnings, including graphic warnings, on cigarette packaging and advertising, ban vending machine sales and curtail affirmative defenses of tobacco companies in product liability litigation. The trend has had, and is more likely to continue to have, an adverse effect on us. In addition to the foregoing, there have been a number of other restrictive regulatory actions from various federal administrative bodies, including the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the FDA. There have also been adverse legislative and political decisions and other unfavorable developments concerning cigarette smoking and the tobacco industry. Recently, legislation was passed by Congress providing for regulation of cigarettes by the FDA. These developments generally receive widespread media attention. Additionally, a majority of states have passed legislation providing for reduced ignition propensity standards for cigarettes. These developments may negatively affect the perception of potential triers of fact with respect to the tobacco industry, possibly to the detriment of certain pending litigation, and may prompt the commencement of additional similar litigation or legislation. We are not able to evaluate the effect of these developing matters on pending litigation or the possible commencement of additional litigation, but our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Liggett may be adversely affected by the 2004 legislation to eliminate the federal tobacco quota system. In October 2004, federal legislation was enacted which eliminated the federal tobacco quota system and price support system through an industry funded buyout of tobacco growers and quota holders. Pursuant to the legislation, manufacturers of tobacco products will be assessed $10.14 billion over a ten-year period to compensate tobacco growers and quota holders for the elimination of their quota rights. Cigarette manufacturers will initially be responsible for 96.3% of the assessment (subject to adjustment in the future), which will be allocated based on relative unit volume of domestic cigarette shipments. Liggett’s and Vector Tobacco’s assessment was $22.9 million in 2009, $23.6 million in 2008 and $23.3 million in 2007. The relative cost of the legislation to each of the three largest cigarette manufacturers will likely be less than the cost to smaller manufacturers, including Liggett and Vector Tobacco, because one effect of the legislation is that the three largest manufacturers will no longer be obligated to make certain contractual payments, commonly known as Phase II payments, they agreed in 1999 to make to tobacco-producing states. The ultimate impact of this legislation cannot be determined, but there is a risk that smaller manufacturers, such as Liggett and Vector Tobacco, will be disproportionately affected by the legislation, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The parties, other than Liggett have filed petitions for writ of certiorari to the United States Supreme Court. The government is seeking reinstatement of its claims for remedies, including disgorgement of profits. 22 Table of Contents Excise tax increases adversely affect cigarette sales. Cigarettes are subject to substantial and increasing federal, state and local excise taxes. In February 2009, Federal legislation to reauthorize the SCHIP, which includes funding provisions that increase the federal cigarette excise tax from $0.39 to $1.01 per pack, was enacted, effective April 1, 2009. State excise taxes vary considerably and, when combined with sales taxes, local taxes and the federal excise tax, may exceed $4.00 per pack. In 2009, 14 states and the District of Columbia enacted increases in excise taxes. Various states and other jurisdictions are considering, or have pending, legislation proposing further state excise tax increases. Management believes increases in excise and similar taxes have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on sales of cigarettes. Liggett may have additional payment obligations under the Master Settlement Agreement and its other settlement agreements with the states. NPM Adjustment. In March 2006, an economic consulting firm selected pursuant to the MSA rendered its final and non-appealable decision that the MSA was a “significant factor contributing to” the loss of market share of Participating Manufacturers for 2003. This is known as the “NPM Adjustment.” The economic consulting firm subsequently rendered the same decision with respect to 2004, 2005 and 2006. As a result, the manufacturers are entitled to potential NPM Adjustments to their 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 MSA payments. The Participating Manufacturers are also entitled to potential NPM Adjustments to their 2007, 2008 and 2009 payments pursuant to an agreement entered into in June 2009 between the OPMs and the settling states under which the OPMs agreed to make certain payments for the benefit of the settling states, in exchange for which the settling states stipulated that the MSA was a “significant factor contributing to” the loss of market share of Participating Manufacturers in 2007, 2008 and 2009. A settling state that has diligently enforced its qualifying escrow statute in the year in question may be able to avoid application of the NPM Adjustment to the payments made by the manufacturers for the benefit of that state or territory. For 2003 through 2009 Liggett and Vector Tobacco disputed that they owe the settling states the NPM Adjustments as calculated by the Independent Auditor. As permitted by the MSA, Liggett and Vector Tobacco withheld payment associated with these NPM Adjustment amounts. The total amount withheld or paid into a disputed payment account by Liggett and Vector Tobacco for 2003 through 2009 is $21.4 million. In 2003, Liggett and Vector Tobacco paid the NPM adjustment amount of $9.3 million to the settling states although both companies continue to dispute this amount. At December 31, 2009 included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheet was a noncurrent receivable of $6.5 million relating to such payment. The following amounts have not been expensed by the Company as they relate to Liggett and Vector Tobacco’s NPM Adjustment claims for 2003 through 2009: $6.5 million for 2003, $3.8 million for 2004 and $800,000 for 2005. Since April 2006, notwithstanding provisions in the MSA requiring arbitration, litigation was filed in 49 Settling States over the issue of whether the application of the NPM Adjustment for 2003 is to be determined through litigation or arbitration. These actions relate to the potential NPM Adjustment for 2003, which the Independent Auditor under the MSA previously determined to be as much as $1.2 billion for all Participating Manufacturers. All but one of the 48 courts that have decided the issue have ruled that the 2003 NPM Adjustment dispute is arbitrable. All 47 of those decisions are final and non-appealable. One court, the Montana Supreme Court, ruled that Montana’s claim of diligent enforcement must be litigated. In response to a proposal from the OPMs and many of the SPMs, 46 of the Settling States, representing approximately 90% of the allocable share of the Settling States, entered into an agreement providing for a nationwide arbitration of the dispute with respect to the NPM Adjustment for 2003. The agreement provides for selection of the arbitration panel beginning November 1, 2009 and that the parties and the arbitrators will thereafter establish the schedule and procedures for the arbitration. Because states representing more than 80% of the allocable share signed the agreement, signing states will receive a 20% reduction of any potential 2003 NPM adjustment. It is anticipated that the arbitration will commence in 2010. There can be no assurance that Liggett or Vector Tobacco will receive any adjustment as a result of these proceedings. Gross v. Net Calculations. In October 2004, the Independent Auditor notified Liggett and all other Participating Manufacturers that their payment obligations under the MSA, dating from the agreement’s execution 23 Table of Contents in late 1998, had been recalculated using “net” unit amounts, rather than “gross” unit amounts (which had been used since 1999). Liggett has objected to this retroactive change and has disputed the change in methodology. Liggett contends that the retroactive change from using “gross” to “net” unit amounts is impermissible for several reasons, including: • use of “net” unit amounts is not required by the MSA (as reflected by, among other things, the use of “gross” unit amounts through 2005); • such a change is not authorized without the consent of affected parties to the MSA; • the MSA provides for four-year time limitation periods for revisiting calculations and determinations, which precludes recalculating Liggett’s 1997 Market Share (and thus, Liggett’s market share exemption); and • Liggett and others have relied upon the calculations based on “gross” unit amounts since 1998. The change in the method of calculation could, among other things, result in at least approximately $9.5 million, plus interest, of additional MSA payments for prior years by Liggett, because the proposed change from “gross” to “net” units would serve to lower Liggett’s market share exemption under the MSA. The Company currently estimates that future MSA payments would be at least $2.25 million higher if the method of calculation is changed. No amounts have been expensed or accrued in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for any potential liability relating to the “gross” versus “net” dispute. Liggett may have additional payment obligations under its state settlements In 2004, the Attorneys General for each of Florida, Mississippi and Texas advised Liggett that they believed that Liggett had failed to make all required payments under the respective settlement agreements with these states for the period 1998 through 2003 and that additional payments may be due for 2004 and subsequent years. Liggett believes these allegations are without merit, based, among other things, on the language of the most favored nation provisions of the settlement agreements and no amounts have been accrued in our consolidated financial statements for any additional amounts that may be payable by Liggett under the settlement agreements with Florida, Mississippi and Texas. There can be no assurance that Liggett will prevail in any of these matters and that Liggett will not be required to make additional material payments, which payments could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows and the value of our common stock. Vector Tobacco is subject to risks inherent in new product development initiatives. We have made, and plan to continue to make, significant investments in Vector Tobacco’s development projects in the tobacco industry. Vector Tobacco is in the business of developing reduced risk cigarette products. These initiatives are subject to high levels of risk, uncertainties and contingencies, including the challenges inherent in new product development and the increased regulation following the enactment of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act. There is a risk that continued investments in Vector Tobacco will harm our results of operations, liquidity or cash flow. The substantial risks facing Vector Tobacco include: Potential extensive government regulation. Vector Tobacco’s business is currently extensively regulated, and may become subject to extensive additional domestic and international government regulation. Various proposals have been made for federal, state and international legislation to regulate cigarette manufacturers generally, and reduced constituent cigarettes specifically. It is possible that laws and regulations may be adopted covering matters such as the manufacture, sale, distribution and labeling of tobacco products as well as any health claims associated with reduced risk and low nicotine and nicotine-free cigarette products. There could be additional regulation established by agencies such as the FDA (including further regulation resulting from passage of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act in June 2009), the Federal Trade Commission and the United States Department of Agriculture. The outcome of any of the foregoing cannot be predicted, but any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on Vector Tobacco’s business, operating results and prospects. 24 Table of Contents Competition from other cigarette manufacturers with greater resources. Vector Tobacco’s competitors generally have substantially greater resources than Vector Tobacco, including financial, marketing and personnel resources. Other major tobacco companies have stated that they are working on reduced risk cigarette products and have made publicly available at this time only limited additional information concerning their activities. Philip Morris has announced it is developing products that potentially reduce smokers’ exposure to harmful compounds in cigarette smoke. RJR Tobacco has disclosed that a primary focus for its research and development activity is the development of potentially reduced exposure products, which may ultimately be recognized as products that present reduced risks to health. RJR Tobacco has stated that it continues to sell in limited distribution throughout the country a brand of cigarettes that primarily heats rather than burns tobacco, which it claims reduces the toxicity of its smoke. There is a substantial likelihood that other major tobacco companies will continue to introduce new products that would compete directly with any reduced risk products that Vector Tobacco may develop. Intellectual property rights, including Vector Tobacco’s patents involve complex legal and factual issues. Any conflicts resulting from third party patent applications and granted patents could significantly limit Vector Tobacco’s ability to obtain meaningful patent protection or to commercialize its technology. If patents currently exist or are issued to other companies that contain claims which encompass Vector Tobacco’s products or the processes used by Vector Tobacco to manufacture or develop its products, Vector Tobacco may be required to obtain licenses to use these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. Licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If licenses are not obtained, Vector Tobacco could be delayed in, or prevented from, pursuing the further development of marketing of its new cigarette products. Any alternative technology, if feasible, could take several years to develop. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost, also may be necessary to enforce any patents to which Vector Tobacco has rights, or to determine the scope, validity and unenforceability of other parties’ proprietary rights which may affect Vector Tobacco’s rights. Vector Tobacco also may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of an invention or in opposition proceedings in foreign countries or jurisdictions, which could result in substantial costs. The mere uncertainty resulting from the institution and continuation of any technology-related litigation or any interference or opposition proceedings could have a material adverse effect on Vector Tobacco’s business, operating results and prospects. Vector Tobacco may also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain its competitive position, which it seeks to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and others. There is a risk that these agreements will be breached or terminated, that Vector Tobacco will not have adequate remedies for any breach, or that its trade secrets will otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. New Valley is subject to risks relating to the industries in which it operates. Risks of real estate ventures. New Valley has three significant real estate-related investments, Douglas Elliman Realty (50% interest), New Valley Oaktree Chelsea Eleven LLC (40% interest) and Aberdeen Townhomes LLC (15% preferred return), where other partners hold significant interests. New Valley must seek approval from these other parties for important actions regarding these joint ventures. Since the other parties’ interests may differ from those of New Valley, a deadlock could arise that might impair the ability of the ventures to function. Such a deadlock could significantly harm the ventures. The volatility in the capital and credit markets has increased in recent years. Because the volatility in capital and credit markets may create additional risks in the upcoming months and possibly years, the Company will continue to perform additional assessments to determine the impact, if any, on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Thus, future impairment charges may occur. New Valley may pursue a variety of real estate development projects. Development projects are subject to special risks including potential increase in costs, changes in market demand, inability to meet deadlines which may delay the timely completion of projects, reliance on contractors who may be unable to perform and the need to obtain various governmental and third party consents. 25 Table of Contents Risks relating to the residential brokerage business. Through New Valley’s investment in Douglas Elliman Realty, we are subject to the risks and uncertainties endemic to the residential brokerage business. Douglas Elliman Realty’s two subsidiaries, which conduct business as Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate, operate as franchisees of The Prudential Real Estate Affiliates, Inc. Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate operates each of its offices under its franchiser’s brand name, and the franchiser has significant rights over the use of the franchised service marks and the conduct of the two brokerage companies’ business. The franchise agreements require the companies to: • coordinate with the franchiser on significant matters relating to their operations, including the opening and closing of offices; • make substantial royalty payments to the franchiser and contribute significant amounts to national advertising funds maintained by the franchiser; • indemnify the franchiser against losses arising out of the operations of their business under the franchise agreements; and • maintain standards and comply with guidelines relating to their operations which are applicable to all franchisees of the franchiser’s real estate franchise system. The franchiser has the right to terminate Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate’s franchises, upon the occurrence of certain events, including a bankruptcy or insolvency event, a change in control, a transfer of rights under the franchise agreement and a failure to promptly pay amounts due under the franchise agreements. A termination of Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate’s franchise agreements could adversely affect our investment in Douglas Elliman Realty. The franchise agreements grant Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate exclusive franchises in New York for the counties of Nassau and Suffolk on Long Island and for Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens, subject to various exceptions and to meeting specified annual revenue thresholds. If the company fails to achieve these levels of revenues for two consecutive years or otherwise materially breach the franchise agreements, the franchiser would have the right to terminate its exclusivity rights. A loss of these rights could have a material adverse on Douglas Elliman Realty. Real estate ventures and mortgage receivables have been negatively impacted by the current downturn in the residential real estate market. The U.S. residential real estate market, including the New York metropolitan area where Douglas Elliman Realty operates, is cyclical and is affected by changes in the general economic conditions that are beyond the control of Douglas Elliman Realty. The U.S. residential real estate market is currently in a significant downturn due to various factors including downward pressure on housing prices, credit constraints inhibiting new buyers and an exceptionally large inventory of unsold homes at the same time that sales volumes are decreasing. The depth and length of the current downturn in the real estate industry has proved exceedingly difficult to predict. We cannot predict whether the downturn will worsen or when the market and related economic forces will return the U.S. residential real estate industry to a growth period. Any of the following could have a material adverse effect on our real estate ventures by causing a general decline in the number of home sales and/or prices, which in turn, could adversely affect their revenues and profitability: • periods of economic slowdown or recession; • rising interest rates; • the general availability of mortgage financing, including: • the impact of the recent contraction in the subprime and mortgage markets generally; and • the effect of more stringent lending standards for home mortgages; • adverse changes in economic and general business conditions in the New York metropolitan area; • a decrease in the affordability of homes; 26 Table of Contents • declining demand for real estate; • a negative perception of the market for residential real estate; • commission pressure from brokers who discount their commissions; • acts of God, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters, or acts or threats of war or terrorism; and/or • an increase in the cost of homeowners insurance. The three major real estate ventures’ current operations are located in the New York metropolitan area. Local and regional economic and general business conditions in this market could differ materially from prevailing conditions in other parts of the country. Among other things, the New York metropolitan area residential real estate market has been impacted by the significant downturn in the financial services industry. A continued downturn in the residential real estate market or economic conditions in that region could have a material adverse effect on these investments. Potential new investments we may make are unidentified and may not succeed. We currently hold a significant amount of marketable securities and cash not committed to any specific investments. This subjects a security holder to increased risk and uncertainty because a security holder will not be able to evaluate how this cash will be invested and the economic merits of particular investments. There may be substantial delay in locating suitable investment opportunities. In addition, we may lack relevant management experience in the areas in which we may invest. There is a risk that we will fail in targeting, consummating or effectively integrating or managing any of these investments. We depend on our key personnel. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. While we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our operations. We are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate their internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess, and our independent registered certified public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We completed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to continue to comply with these requirements. We expect to continue to incur expense and to devote management resources to Section 404 compliance. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered certified public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions and our reputation may be adversely affected and the market price of our stock could decline. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The trading price of our common stock has ranged between $10.23 and $15.98 per share over the past 52 weeks. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • the operating and stock performance of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services or significant contract, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 27 Table of Contents • the initiation or outcome of litigation; • changes in interest rates; • general economic, market and political conditions; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • future sales of our equity or convertible securities. We cannot predict the extent, if any, to which future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, may depress the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Furthermore, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. These factors, among others, could significantly depress the price of our common stock. We have many potentially dilutive securities outstanding. At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding options granted to employees to purchase approximately 2,202,828 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $14.51 per share, of which options for 1,056,999 shares were exercisable at December 31, 2009. We also have outstanding convertible notes and debentures maturing in November 2014 and June 2026, which are currently convertible into 16,326,597 shares of our common stock. The issuance of these shares will cause dilution which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The availability for sale of significant quantities of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 