Item 1A.Risk Factors Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2.Properties Item 3.Legal Proceedings Item 4.Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5.Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6.Selected Financial Data Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Balance Sheets Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Segment Information Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited) Selected Financial Data (unaudited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Management’s Reports Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Item 9.Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A.Controls and Procedures Item 9B.Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11.Executive Compensation Item 12.Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14.Principal Accountant Fees and Services Item 15.Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Index to Exhibits By-laws, as amended Bonus Plan, as amended Summary of 2006 Compensation for Non-Employee Directors Summary of 2006 Compensation for Named Executive Officers Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings from Continuing Operations to Fixed Charges List of Subsidiaries Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chairman of the Board and CEO Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Executive VP and CFO Section 1350 Certification Table of Contents Part I Item 1. Business Eli Lilly and Company (the “Company” or “Registrant”, which may be referred to as “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in 1901 in Indiana to succeed to the drug manufacturing business founded in Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1876 by Colonel Eli Lilly. We discover, develop, manufacture, and sell products in one significant business segment — pharmaceutical products. We also have an animal health business segment, whose operations are not material to our financial statements. We manufacture and distribute our products through owned or leased facilities in the United States, Puerto Rico, and 26 other countries. Our products are sold in approximately 135 countries. Most of the products we sell today were discovered or developed by our own scientists, and our success depends to a great extent on our ability to continue to discover and develop innovative new pharmaceutical products. We direct our research efforts primarily toward the search for products to prevent and treat human diseases. We also conduct research to find products to treat diseases in animals and to increase the efficiency of animal food production. Products Our principal products are: Neuroscience products, our largest-selling product group, including: • Zyprexa®, for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania and bipolar maintenance • Cymbalta®, for the treatment of depression and diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain • Strattera®, for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder in children, adolescents and adults • Prozac®, for the treatment of depression and, in many countries, for bulimia and obsessive-compulsive disorder • Permax®, for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease • Sarafem®, for the treatment of pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder • Symbyax®, for the treatment of bipolar depression • Yentreve®, for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence (approved in 2004 in the European Union and several other countries outside the United States). Endocrine products, including: • Humalog®, Humalog Mix 75/25®, and Humalog Mix 50/50™, injectable human insulin analogs for the treatment of diabetes • Humulin®, injectable human insulin for the treatment of diabetes • Actos®, an oral agent for the treatment of type 2 diabetes • Byetta®, an injectable product for the treatment of type 2 diabetes • Evista®, an oral agent for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in post-menopausal women 1 Table of Contents • Humatrope®, for the treatment of human growth hormone deficiency and idiopathic short stature • Forteo®, an injectable treatment for severe osteoporosis in women and men. Oncology products, including: • Gemzar®, for the treatment of pancreatic cancer; in combination with other agents, for treatment of metastatic breast cancer and non-small cell lung cancer; and in the European Union for bladder and ovarian cancers • Alimta®, for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma and for second-line treatment of non- small cell lung cancer (approved in 2004 in the U.S. and several other countries). Animal health products, including: • Tylan®, an antibiotic used to control certain diseases in cattle, swine, and poultry • Rumensin®, a cattle feed additive that improves feed efficiency and growth and also controls and prevents coccidiosis • Coban®, Monteban® and Maxiban®, anticoccidial agents for use in poultry • Apralan®, an antibiotic used to control enteric infections in calves and swine • Micotil®, Pulmotil®, and Pulmotil AC®, antibiotics used to treat respiratory disease in cattle, swine, and poultry, respectively • Surmax® (sold as Maxus® in some countries), a performance enhancer for swine and poultry • Paylean® and Optaflexx®, leanness and performance enhancers for swine and cattle, respectively • Elector®, a parasiticide for use on cattle and premises. Cardiovascular agents, including: • ReoPro®, a treatment for use as an adjunct to percutaneous coronary intervention (“PCI”), including patients undergoing angioplasty, atherectomy or stent placement • Xigris®, for the treatment of adults with severe sepsis at high risk of death. Anti-infectives, including: • Ceclor®, for the treatment of a wide range of bacterial infections • Vancocin® HCl, used primarily to treat staphylococcal infections. Other pharmaceutical products, including: • Cialis®, for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Marketing We sell most of our products worldwide. We adapt our marketing methods and product emphasis in various countries to meet local needs. 2 Table of Contents Pharmaceuticals — United States In the United States, we distribute pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors. Our marketing policy is designed to assure that products and relevant medical information are immediately available to physicians, pharmacies, hospitals, public and private payers, and appropriate health care professionals throughout the country. Three wholesale distributors in the United States — AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc., and McKesson Corporation — each accounted for between 12 and 17 percent of our worldwide consolidated net sales in 2005. No other distributor accounted for more than 10 percent of consolidated net sales. We also sell pharmaceutical products directly to the United States government and other manufacturers, but those sales are not material. We promote our major pharmaceutical products in the United States through sales representatives who call upon physicians, wholesalers, hospitals, managed-care organizations, retail pharmacists, and other health care professionals. We advertise in medical and drug journals, distribute literature and samples of certain products to physicians, and exhibit at medical meetings. In addition, we advertise certain products directly to consumers in the United States and we maintain web sites with information about all our major products. Divisions of our sales force are assigned to product lines or practice areas, such as primary care, neuroscience, acute care, endocrinology, and oncology. Large purchasers of pharmaceuticals, such as managed-care groups, government agencies, and long-term care institutions, account for a significant portion of total pharmaceutical purchases in the United States. We have created special sales groups to service managed-care organizations, government and long-term care institutions, hospital contract administrators, and certain retail pharmacies. In response to competitive pressures, we have entered into arrangements with a number of these organizations providing for discounts or rebates on one or more Lilly products or other cost-sharing arrangements. Pharmaceuticals — Outside the United States Outside the United States, we promote our pharmaceutical products primarily through sales representatives. While the products marketed vary from country to country, neuroscience products constitute the largest single group in total sales. Distribution patterns vary from country to country. In most countries, we maintain our own sales and distribution organizations. In some countries, however, we market our products through independent distributors. Pharmaceutical Marketing Collaborations Several of our significant products are marketed in collaboration with other pharmaceutical companies: • Cymbalta is co-promoted in the United States by Quintiles Transnational Corp. and is co-promoted or co-marketed outside the U.S. (except Japan) by Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH. • Cialis is sold in North America and most of Europe by a joint venture between Lilly and ICOS Corporation, and is sold by us alone in other territories. • We co-promote Actos with a unit of Takeda Chemical Industries Ltd. in the United States and certain other countries and we sell it alone in other countries. Our U.S. marketing rights with respect to Actos expire in September 2006; however, we will receive residual royalties on U.S. Actos sales for three years thereafter. 3 Table of Contents • We co-promote Byetta with Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the United States and Puerto Rico, and we have exclusive marketing rights in other territories. We have also entered into licensing arrangements under which we have granted exclusive marketing rights to other companies in specified countries for certain older products manufactured by us, such as Permax, Sarafem, Vancocin, the anti-ulcer agent Axid®, the analgesic Darvon®, and the anti-infectives Ceclor, Keflex®, Keftab®, and Lorabid®. Animal Health Products Our Elanco Animal Health business unit employs field salespeople throughout the United States to market animal health products. Elanco also has an extensive sales force outside the United States. Elanco sells its products primarily to wholesale distributors. Competition Our pharmaceutical products compete with products manufactured by many other companies in highly competitive markets throughout the world. Our animal health products compete on a worldwide basis with products of animal health care companies as well as pharmaceutical, chemical, and other companies that operate animal health divisions or subsidiaries. Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety, and ease of use, price and demonstrated cost-effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, service, and research and development of new products and processes. If competitors introduce new products, delivery systems or processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales, or both. Most new products that we introduce must compete with other products already on the market or products that are later developed by competitors. Manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals typically invest far less in research and development than research-based pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. In many countries outside the United States, patent protection is weak or nonexistent and we must compete with generic or “knockoff” versions of our products. To successfully compete for business with managed care and pharmacy benefits management organizations, we must often demonstrate that our products offer not only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. We believe our long-term competitive position depends upon our success in discovering and developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve unmet medical needs, together with our ability to continuously improve the productivity of our discovery, development, manufacturing, marketing and support operations in a highly competitive environment. There can be no assurance that our research and development efforts will result in commercially successful products or that our products or processes will not become uncompetitive from time to time as a result of products or processes developed by our competitors. Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights Overview Intellectual property protection is, in the aggregate, material to our ability to successfully commercialize our life sciences innovations. We own, have applied for, or are licensed under, a large number of patents, both in the United States and in other countries, relating to products, product uses, formulations, and manufacturing processes. There is no assurance that the patents we 4 Table of Contents are seeking will be granted or that the patents we have been granted would be found valid and enforceable if challenged. Moreover, patents relating to particular products, uses, formulations, or processes do not preclude other manufacturers from employing alternative processes or from marketing alternative products or formulations that might successfully compete with our patented products. In addition, from time to time, competitors or other third parties assert claims that our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by them. While there can be no assurance, we do not believe that any such claims will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, or financial position. Outside the United States, the adequacy and effectiveness of intellectual property protection for pharmaceuticals varies widely. Under the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Agreement (TRIPs) administered by the World Trade Organization (WTO), over 140 countries have now agreed to provide non-discriminatory protection for most pharmaceutical inventions and to assure that adequate and effective rights are available to all patent owners. However, in many countries, this agreement will not become fully effective for many years. It is still too soon to assess when and how much, if at all, we will benefit commercially from these changes. When a product patent expires, the patent holder often loses effective market exclusivity for the product. This can result in a severe and rapid decline in sales of the formerly patented product, particularly in the United States. However, in some cases the innovator company may achieve exclusivity beyond the expiry of the product patent through manufacturing trade secrets; later-expiring patents on methods of use or formulations; or data-based exclusivity that may be available under pharmaceutical regulatory laws. Our Intellectual Property Portfolio We consider intellectual property protection for certain products, processes, and uses — particularly those products discussed below — to be important to our operations. For many of our products, in addition to the compound patent we hold other patents on manufacturing processes, formulations, or uses that may extend exclusivity beyond the expiration of the product patent. United States compound patent expirations include those claiming the respective active ingredients in Zyprexa, 2011, and Humalog, 2013. The Gemzar compound patent in the U.S. expires in 2010, and a method-of-use patent covering treatment of neoplasms with Gemzar is in force until 2012. We have also received an additional six months of marketing exclusivity for Gemzar from the FDA under the terms of the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997, as a result of our conducting clinical studies of Gemzar in pediatric populations, which should provide us exclusivity until 2013. We hold a number of U.S. patents covering Evista and its approved uses in osteoporosis prevention and treatment that we believe should provide us exclusivity in the United States until 2014. For Strattera, a method-of-use patent in the U.S. for treating attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder should provide exclusivity until 2016. For Cymbalta, we expect the U.S. compound patent will expire in 2013. We also have a formulation patent for Cymbalta until 2014. We expect the U.S. compound patent for Alimta will expire in 2016. For Cialis, compound and method-of-use patent protection exists in the U.S. that should provide exclusivity until 2017. In the United States, the Actos compound patent extends beyond the duration of our co-promotion agreement, which is in force until September 2006. Xigris is a complex glycoprotein biologic product that is produced through recombinant DNA technology. Xigris is not subject to the Abbreviated New Drug Application process under the Hatch-Waxman law as described below. In addition, we hold patents on the DNA materials, certain uses, manufacturing process, and the glycoprotein itself. We believe the intellectual property protection for Xigris should provide us marketing exclusivity in the U.S. until 2015. Relevant patents covering Byetta are exclusively licensed or owned by our partner 5 Table of Contents Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. A method of use patent focused on the treatment of type 2 diabetes is expected to expire in the U.S. in 2017. In addition, a patent covering the Byetta formulation will expire in the U.S. in 2020. Worldwide, we sell all of our major products under trademarks that we consider in the aggregate to be important to our operations. Trademark protection varies throughout the world, with protection continuing in some countries as long as the mark is used, and in other countries as long as it is registered. Registrations are normally for fixed but renewable terms. Patent Challenges Under the Hatch-Waxman Act The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly known as “Hatch-Waxman,” made a complex set of changes to both patent and new-drug-approval laws in the United States. Before Hatch-Waxman, no drug could be approved without providing the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) complete safety and efficacy studies, i.e., a complete New Drug Application (NDA). Hatch-Waxman authorizes the FDA to approve generic versions of innovative medicines without such information by filing an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA). In an ANDA, the generic manufacturer must demonstrate only “bioequivalence” between the generic version and the NDA-approved drug — not safety and efficacy. Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an ANDA until after the innovator’s patents expire. However, after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an ANDA alleging that one or more of the patents listed in the innovator’s NDA are invalid or not infringed. This allegation is commonly known as a “Paragraph IV certification.” The innovator must then file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect its patents. If one or more of the NDA-listed patents are successfully challenged, the first filer of a Paragraph IV certification may be entitled to a 180-day period of market exclusivity over all other generic manufacturers. In recent years, generic manufacturers have used Paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and we expect this trend to continue. We are currently in litigation with numerous generic manufacturers arising from their Paragraph IV certifications on Zyprexa, Evista, and Gemzar. For more information on these, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Legal and Regulatory Matters.” Government Regulation Regulation of Our Operations Our operations are regulated extensively by numerous national, state and local agencies. The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing development, and regulatory review necessary for required governmental approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing, and distribution of pharmaceutical and animal health products are extensively regulated in all major world markets. We are required to conduct extensive post-marketing surveillance of the safety of the products we sell. In addition, our operations are subject to complex federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. The laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of current products and the introduction of new products will continue to require substantial scientific and technical effort, time, and expense and significant capital investment. 6 Table of Contents Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States. Pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA has jurisdiction over all of our products and administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, quality control, distribution, labeling, marketing, advertising, dissemination of information and post-marketing surveillance of our pharmaceutical products. The FDA, along with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), also regulates our animal health products. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency also regulates some animal health products. Outside the United States, our products and operations are subject to similar regulatory requirements, notably by the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) in the European Union and the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) in Japan. Regulatory requirements vary from country to country. The FDA extensively regulates all aspects of manufacturing quality under its current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) regulations. In recent years, we have made, and we continue to make, substantial investments of capital and operating expenses to implement comprehensive, company-wide improvements in our manufacturing, product and process development, and quality operations to ensure sustained cGMP compliance. However, in the event we fail to adhere to cGMP requirements in the future, we could be subject to interruptions in production, fines and penalties, and delays in new product approvals. The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with purchasers and prescribers, are subject to various other federal and state laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and the False Claims Act and state laws governing kickbacks and false claims. These laws are administered by, among others, the Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Personnel Management and state attorneys general. Over the past several years, both the FDA and many of these other agencies have increased their enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. Over this period, several cases brought by these agencies against other companies under these and other laws have resulted in corporate criminal sanctions and very substantial civil settlements. Several pharmaceutical companies, including Lilly, are currently subject to proceedings by one or more of these agencies regarding marketing and promotional practices. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Legal and Regulatory Matters,” for information about currently pending marketing and promotional practices investigations in which we are involved. It is possible that we could become subject to additional administrative and legal proceedings and actions, which could include claims for civil penalties (including treble damages under the False Claims Act), criminal sanctions, and administrative remedies, including exclusion from federal health care programs. It is possible that an adverse outcome in such an action could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. Regulations Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement In the United States, we are required to provide rebates to state governments on their purchases of certain of our products under state Medicaid programs. Other cost containment measures have been adopted or proposed by federal, state, and local government entities that provide or pay for health care. In most international markets, we operate in an environment of government-mandated cost containment programs, which may include price controls, reference pricing, discounts and rebates, restrictions on physician prescription levels, restrictions on reimbursement, compulsory licenses, health economic assessments, and generic substitution. 7 Table of Contents In the U.S., implementation of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA), providing a prescription drug benefit under the Medicare program, took effect January 1, 2006. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Executive Overview — Legal and Governmental Matters” for a discussion of the anticipated impact of MMA and other federal and state healthcare cost containment measures. International operations are also generally subject to extensive price and market regulations, and there are many proposals for additional cost-containment measures, including proposals that would directly or indirectly impose additional price controls or reduce the value of our intellectual property protection. We cannot predict the extent to which our business may be affected by these or other potential future legislative or regulatory developments. However, we expect that pressures on pharmaceutical pricing will continue. Research and Development Our commitment to research and development dates back more than 100 years. Our research and development activities are responsible for the discovery and development of most of the products we offer today. We invest heavily in research and development because we believe it is critical to our long-term competitiveness. At the end of 2005, we employed approximately 8,400 people in pharmaceutical and animal health research and development activities, including a substantial number of physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees, and highly skilled technical personnel. Our research and development expenses were $2.35 billion in 2003, $2.69 billion in 2004, and $3.03 billion in 2005. Our pharmaceutical research and development focuses on four therapeutic categories: central nervous system and related diseases; endocrine diseases, including diabetes, obesity and musculoskeletal disorders; cancer; and cardiovascular diseases. However, we remain opportunistic, selectively pursuing promising leads in other therapeutic areas. We are actively engaged in biotechnology research programs involving recombinant DNA, therapeutic proteins and antibodies as well as genomics (the development of therapeutics through identification of disease-causing genes and their cellular function), biomarkers, and targeted therapeutics. In addition to discovering and developing new chemical entities, we look for ways to expand the value of existing products through new uses and formulations that can provide additional benefits to patients. We also conduct research in animal health, including animal nutrition and physiology, control of parasites, and veterinary medicine. To supplement our internal efforts, we collaborate with others, including educational institutions and research-based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and we contract with others for the performance of research in their facilities. We use the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools, and other research organizations worldwide to conduct clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of our products. We actively seek out investments in external research and technologies that hold the promise to complement and strengthen our own research efforts. These investments can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, co-development and co-marketing agreements, co-promotion arrangements, joint ventures, and acquisitions. Drug development is time-consuming, expensive, and risky. On average, only one out of many thousands of chemical compounds discovered by researchers proves to be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from discovery to regulatory approval typically takes 12 to 15 years or longer. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the 8 Table of Contents process, and even late-stage drug candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval. We believe our investments in research, both internally and in collaboration with others, have been rewarded by the number of new compounds and new indications for existing compounds that we have in all stages of development. Among our new investigational compounds in the later stages of development are potential therapies for diabetes and its complications, osteoporosis, cancer, and acute coronary syndromes. Further, we are studying many other drug candidates in the earlier stages of development, including compounds targeting cancers, thrombotic disorders, atherosclerosis, Alzheimer’s disease, diabetes, obesity, and sleep disorders. We are also developing new uses and formulations for many of our currently marketed products, such as Zyprexa, Gemzar, Alimta, Cialis, Cymbalta, Evista, Forteo, and Byetta. Raw Materials and Product Supply Most of the principal materials we use in our manufacturing operations are available from more than one source. We obtain certain raw materials principally from only one source. In addition, four of our significant products are manufactured by others: Actos by Takeda; ReoPro by Centocor; Xigris by Lonza Biologics (bulk product) and DSM, N.V. (finished product); and Byetta by third-party suppliers to Amylin. If we were unable to obtain certain materials from present sources, we could experience an interruption in supply until we established new sources or, in some cases, implemented alternative processes. Our primary bulk manufacturing occurs at three sites in Indiana as well as locations in Ireland, Puerto Rico, and the United Kingdom. Finishing operations, including labeling and packaging, take place at a number of sites throughout the world. We seek to design and operate our manufacturing facilities and maintain inventory in a way that will allow us to meet all expected product demand while maintaining flexibility to reallocate manufacturing capacity to improve efficiency and respond to changes in supply and demand. However, pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated, and vary widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a very lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures. Accordingly, if we were to experience extended plant shutdowns or extraordinary unplanned increases in demand, we could experience an interruption in supply of certain products or product shortages until production could be resumed or expanded. Quality Assurance Our success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in the quality of our products and in the integrity of the data that support their safety and effectiveness. Product quality arises from a total commitment to quality in all parts of our operations, including research and development, purchasing, facilities planning, manufacturing, and distribution. We have implemented quality-assurance procedures relating to the quality and integrity of scientific information and production processes. Control of production processes involves rigid specifications for ingredients, equipment, facilities, manufacturing methods, packaging materials, and labeling. We perform tests at various stages of production processes and on the final product to assure that the product meets all regulatory requirements and our standards. These tests may involve chemical and physical chemical analyses, microbiological testing, testing in animals, or a combination. Additional assurance of quality is provided by a corporate quality-assurance group that monitors existing pharmaceutical and animal health manufacturing procedures and systems in the parent company, subsidiaries and affiliates, and third-party suppliers. 9 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Company The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers. All executive officers have been employed by the Company in executive positions during the last five years. The term of office for each executive officer expires on the date of the annual meeting of the Board of Directors, to be held on April 24, 2006, or on the date his or her successor is chosen and qualified. No director or executive officer of the Company has a “family relationship” with any other director or executive officer of the Company, as that term is defined for purposes of this disclosure requirement. There is no understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was selected. Name Age Offices Sidney Taurel 57 Chairman of the Board (since January 1999) and Chief Executive Officer (since June 1998) and a Director John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. 52 President and Chief Operating Officer (since October 2005) and a Director Charles E. Golden 59 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since March 1996) and a Director Steven M. Paul, M.D. 55 Executive Vice President, Science and Technology (since July 2003) Robert A. Armitage 57 Senior Vice President and General Counsel (since January 2003) Scott A. Canute 45 President, Manufacturing Operations (since October 2004) Anthony J. Murphy, Ph.D. 55 Senior Vice President, Human Resources (since June 2005) Gino Santini 49 Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Policy (since July 2004) Deirdre P. Connelly 45 President, U.S. Operations (since June 2005) Lorenzo Tallarigo, M.D. 55 President, International Operations (since January 2004) Employees At the end of 2005, we employed approximately 42,600 people, including approximately 20,000 employees outside the United States. A substantial number of our employees have long records of continuous service. 10 Table of Contents Financial Information Relating to Business Segments and Classes of Products You can find financial information relating to our business segments and classes of products in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, “Segment Information.” That information is incorporated here by reference. The relative contribution of any particular product to our consolidated net sales changes from year to year. This is due to several factors, including the introduction of new products by us and by other manufacturers and the introduction of generic pharmaceuticals upon patent expirations. In addition, margins vary for our different products due to various factors, including differences in the cost to manufacture and market the products, the value of the products to the marketplace, and government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement. Our major product sales are generally not seasonal. Financial Information Relating to Foreign and Domestic Operations You can find financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, “Segment Information.” That information is incorporated here by reference. To date, our overall operations abroad have not been significantly deterred by local restrictions on the transfer of funds from branches and subsidiaries located abroad, including the availability of dollar exchange. We cannot predict what effect these restrictions or the other risks inherent in foreign operations, including possible nationalization, might have on our future operations or what other restrictions may be imposed in the future. In addition, changing currency values can either favorably or unfavorably affect our financial position and results of operations. We actively manage foreign exchange risk through various hedging techniques including the use of foreign currency contracts. Available Information on Our Web Site We make available through our company web site, free of charge, our company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The reports we make available include our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, registration statements, and any amendments to those documents. The company web site link to our SEC filings is http://investor.lilly.com/edgar.cfm. In addition, the Corporate Governance portion of our web site includes our corporate governance guidelines, board and committee information (including committee charters), and our articles of incorporation and by-laws. The link to our corporate governance information is http://investor.lilly.com/corp-gov.cfm. We will provide paper copies of our SEC filings and corporate governance documents free of charge upon request to the company’s secretary at the address listed on the front of this Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company. It is possible that our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. 11 Table of Contents • We face intense competition. We compete with large number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and generic pharmaceutical companies. To compete successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical needs. Our product sales can be adversely affected by the introduction by competitors of branded products that are perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic versions of our branded products, and by generic versions of other products in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. See Item 1, “Business — Competition,” for more details. • Our long-term success depends on intellectual property protection. Our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover, develop, and commercialize innovative new pharmaceutical products. Without strong intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate the returns necessary to support the enormous investments in research and development, capital, and other expenditures required to bring new drugs to the market. We currently expect no major patent expirations in this decade, but several major products will lose intellectual property protection in the first half of the next decade. Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and is subject to change over time. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman Act provides generic companies powerful incentives to seek to invalidate our patents; as a result, we expect that our U.S. patents on major products will be routinely challenged, and there can be no assurance that our patents will be upheld. See Item 1, “Business — Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Protection”, for more details. In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim that our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by them. If successful, such claims could result in our being unable to market a product in a particular territory or being required to pay damages for past infringement or royalties on future sales. • Our business is subject to increasing government price controls and other health care cost containment measures. Government health care cost-containment measures can significantly affect our sales and profitability. In many countries outside the United States, government agencies strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which our products are sold. In the United States, we are subject to substantial pricing pressures from state Medicaid programs and private insurance programs, including those operating under the new Medicare pharmaceutical benefit effective January 2006. We expect pricing pressures to increase. See Item I, “Business — Regulations Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement” for more details. • Pharmaceutical research and development is costly and uncertain. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development and introduction of new products. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Delays and uncertainties in the FDA approval process and the approval processes in other countries can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict sales growth rates of new products. • Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability claims. 12 Table of Contents • Zyprexa contributes a major portion of our sales and earnings. Zyprexa, our largest-selling product, contributes a significant proportion of our total sales and income, and we believe Zyprexa will continue to be a major contributor to our sales and earnings for several years. An unexpected steep and extended decline in Zyprexa sales (resulting from, for example, an unexpected safety or efficacy concern, regulatory action, or premature loss of patent protection) could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. • Regulatory compliance failures could be damaging to the company. The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with purchasers and prescribers, are subject to extensive regulation. Many companies, including Lilly, have been subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental authorities and private payors and consumers. These claims could result in substantial expense to the company. In particular, See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Legal and Regulatory Matters”, for the discussions of the U.S. sales and marketing practices investigations. In addition, regulatory issues concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations for pharmaceutical products can lead to product recalls and seizures, interruption of production leading to product shortages, and delays in the approvals of new products pending resolution of the cGMP issues. See Item 1, “Business — Regulation of our Operations”, for more details. • We face many product liability claims today, and future claims will be largely self-insured. We are subject to a substantial number of product liability claims involving primarily Zyprexa, DES, and thimerosal, and because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible that we could become subject to large numbers of product liability claims for other products in the future. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Legal and Regulatory Matters” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, for more information on our current product liability litigation. We have experienced difficulties in obtaining product liability insurance due to a very restrictive insurance market, and therefore will be largely self-insured for future product liability losses. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers on past claims. • Manufacturing difficulties could lead to product supply problems. Pharmaceutical manufacturing is complex and highly regulated. Manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales. See Item 1, “Business — Raw Materials and Product Supply,” for more details. • We face other risks to our business and operating results. Our business is subject to a number of other risks and uncertainties, including: • Economic factors over which we have no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, and overall economic conditions in volatile areas can affect our results of operations. • Changes in tax laws, including laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings or investments in foreign countries with favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state, and foreign tax audits, can affect our net income. • Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Emerging Issues Task Force can affect reported results. 13 Table of Contents • Our results can also be affected by internal factors, such as changes in business strategies and the impact of restructurings, asset impairments, technology acquisition and disposition transactions, and business combinations. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements We have made certain forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K, and company spokespeople may make such statements in the future based on then-current expectations of management. Where possible, we try to identify forward-looking statements by using such words as “expect,” “plan,” “will,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They are likely to address our growth strategy, sales of current and anticipated products, financial results, the results of our research and development programs, the status of product approvals, and the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations. All forward-looking statements made by us are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those summarized above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. We undertake no duty to update forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 