ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSFrom time to time, information we provide, statements by our employees or information included in our filings with the SEC may contain forward-looking statements that are not historical facts. Those statements are "forward-looking" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "forecast," "guidance" or words of similar meaning. Actual results may differ materially from such statements due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the Company's operating results. Forward-looking statements, and our future performance, operating results, financial position and liquidity, are subject to a variety of factors that could materially affect results, including those risks described below. Any forward-looking statements made in this report or otherwise speak only as of the date of the statement, and, except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update those statements. Comparisons of results for current and any prior periods are not intended to express any future trends or indications of future performance, unless expressed as such, and should only be viewed as historical data.In the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. These risks could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.Our Enterprise Risk Management ("ERM") process seeks to identify and address significant risks. Our ERM process is a company-wide initiative that is designed with the intent of prioritizing risks and assigning appropriate consideration for such risks. We use the integrated risk framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations to assess, manage and monitor risks.Management has identified and prioritized critical risks based on the severity and likelihood of each risk and assigned an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to monitor and mitigate risks, where possible. Our Board of Directors provides oversight of the ERM process and systematically reviews identified critical risks. The Audit Committee also reviews major financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and control them.Our goal is to pro-actively manage risks in a structured approach and in conjunction with the strategic planning process, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareholder value. However, these and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. The risk factors and uncertainties described below, together with information incorporated by reference or otherwise included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be carefully considered. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.General economic and market conditions may adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations and access to capital markets.The Company's operating results are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. Further recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, inflation, higher labor costs, trade barriers in the world markets, financial turmoil related to sovereign debt and changes in tax laws or other economic factors affecting the countries and industries in which we do business could adversely affect demand for the Company's products, thereby impacting our results of operations, collection of accounts receivable and our expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, which may adversely impact our financial condition and access to capital markets.Economic and supply disruptions associated with events beyond our control, such as war, acts of terror, political unrest, public health concerns, labor disputes or natural disasters could adversely affect our supply chain and distribution channels or result in loss of sales and customers.Our facilities and operations, and the facilities and operations of our suppliers and customers, could be disrupted by events beyond our control, such as war, political unrest, public health concerns, labor disputes or natural disasters. Any such disruption could cause delays in the production and distribution of our products and the loss of sales and customers. Insurance proceeds may not adequately compensate the Company for the losses.3Availability of and volatility in energy costs or raw material prices may adversely affect our performance.In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks related to the availability of and price fluctuations in the purchase of energy and commodities used in the manufacture of our products (primarily steel, brass, copper, silver, aluminum alloys, electronic components, electricity and natural gas). The availability and prices for raw materials are subject to volatility and are influenced by worldwide economic conditions, speculative action, world supply and demand balances, inventory levels, availability of substitute materials, currency exchange rates, our competitors' production costs, anticipated or perceived shortages and other factors. The price of steel used to manufacture our products has experienced periods of significant price volatility and has been subject to periodic shortages due to global economic factors. We have also experienced substantial volatility in prices for other raw materials, including nonferrous metals, chemicals and energy costs.Increases in the cost of raw materials and components may adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to pass along to our customers these cost increases in the form of price increases or otherwise reduce our cost of goods sold. Although most of the raw materials and components used in our products are commercially available from a number of sources and in adequate supply, any disruption in the availability of such raw materials and components, our inability to timely or otherwise obtain substitutes for such items, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers could adversely affect our business.We are a co-defendant in litigation alleging asbestos induced illness. Liabilities relating to such litigation could reduce our profitability and impair our financial condition.At December 31, 2012, we were a co-defendant in cases alleging asbestos induced illness involving claims by approximately 15,050 plaintiffs. In each instance, we are one of a large number of defendants. The asbestos claimants allege that exposure to asbestos contained in welding consumables caused the plaintiffs to develop adverse pulmonary diseases, including mesothelioma and other lung cancers.Since January 1, 1995, we have been a co-defendant in asbestos cases that have been resolved as follows: 41,161 of those claims were dismissed, 20 were tried to defense verdicts, seven were tried to plaintiff verdicts (two of which are being appealed), one was resolved by agreement for an immaterial amount and 612 were decided in favor of the Company following summary judgment motions.The long-term impact of the asbestos loss contingency, in the aggregate, on operating results, operating cash flows and access to capital markets is difficult to assess, particularly since claims are in many different stages of development and we benefit significantly from cost-sharing with co-defendants and insurance carriers. While we intend to contest these lawsuits vigorously, and believe we have applicable insurance relating to these claims, there are several risks and uncertainties that may affect our liability for personal injury claims relating to exposure to asbestos, including the future impact of changing cost sharing arrangements or a change in our overall trial experience. Asbestos use in welding consumables in the U.S. ceased in 1981.We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability claims that may be brought against us.Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale and application of our products and the products of third-party suppliers that we utilize or resell. Our products are used in a variety of applications, including infrastructure projects such as oil and gas pipelines and platforms, buildings, bridges and power generation facilities, the manufacture of transportation and heavy equipment and machinery, and various other construction projects. We face risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that accidents or failures on these projects result, or are alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage. Further, our products are designed for use in specific applications, and if a product is used inappropriately, personal injury or property damage may result.The occurrence of defects in or failures of our products, or the misuse of our products in specific applications, could cause termination of customer contracts, increased costs and losses to us, our customers and other end users. We cannot be assured that we will not experience any material product liability losses in the future or that we will not incur significant costs to defend those claims. Further, we cannot be assured that our product liability insurance coverage will be adequate for any liabilities that we may ultimately incur or that product liability insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us.The cyclical nature and maturity of the arc welding and cutting industry in developed markets may adversely affect our performance.The arc welding and cutting industry is generally a mature industry in developed markets such as North America and Western Europe and is cyclical in nature. Overall demand for arc welding and cutting products is largely determined by the level of capital spending in manufacturing and other industrial sectors, and the welding industry has historically experienced contraction during periods of slowing industrial activity. If economic, business and industry conditions deteriorate, capital spending in those sectors may be substantially decreased, which could reduce demand for our products, our revenues and our results of operations.4We may not be able to complete our acquisition strategy or successfully integrate acquired businesses.Part of our business strategy is to pursue targeted business acquisition opportunities, including foreign investment opportunities. For example, we have completed and continue to pursue acquisitions in emerging markets including, but not limited to, Brazil, Russia, India and China in order to strategically position resources to increase our presence in growing markets. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in pursuing potential acquisition candidates or that the consequences of any acquisition would be beneficial to us. Future acquisitions may expose us to unexpected liabilities and involve the expenditure of significant funds and management time. Further, we may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired business with our existing businesses or recognize the expected benefits from any completed acquisition.Depending on the nature, size and timing of future acquisitions, we may be required to raise additional financing, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms. Our current operational cash flow is sufficient to fund our current acquisition plans, but a significant acquisition could require access to the capital markets.If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products that meet customer demands, our revenues and gross margins may suffer.Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to meet our customers' needs for welding and cutting products through the introduction of innovative new products and the enhancement of existing product design and performance characteristics. We must remain committed to product research and development and customer service in order to remain competitive. We cannot be assured that new products or product improvements, once developed, will meet with customer acceptance and contribute positively to our operating results, or that we will be able to continue our product development efforts at a pace to sustain future growth. Further, we may lose customers to our competitors if they demonstrate product design, development or manufacturing capabilities superior to ours.The competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margins and prospects.We operate in a highly competitive global environment and compete in each of our businesses with other broad-line manufacturers and numerous smaller competitors specializing in particular products. We compete primarily on the basis of brand, product quality, price, performance, warranty, delivery, service and technical support. We have previously initiated, and may in the future initiate significant rationalization activities to align our business to market conditions. Such rationalization activities could fail to deliver the desired competitive cost structure and could result in disruptions in customer service. If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of the criteria listed above, our operations, results and prospects could suffer.Further, in the past decade, the arc welding industry in the United States and other developed countries has been subject to increased levels of foreign competition as low cost imports have become more readily available. Our competitive position could also be harmed if new or emerging competitors become more active in the arc welding business. For example, while steel manufacturers traditionally have not been significant competitors in the domestic arc welding industry, some foreign integrated steel producers manufacture selected consumable arc welding products. Our sales and results of operations, as well as our plans to expand in some foreign countries, could be adversely affected by this practice.The loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and profit.We have a large and varied customer base due, in part, to our extensive distribution channels in the industries and regions that we serve. Although no individual customer currently accounts for more than ten percent of total Net sales, there are customers to which we sell a large amount of product. The loss of any of these customers could have an adverse effect on our revenue, gross margins and profit.We conduct our sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and maintain manufacturing facilities in a number of foreign countries, which subjects us to risks associated with doing business outside the United States.Our long-term strategy is to continue to increase our market share in growing international markets, particularly Asia (with emphasis in China and India), Latin America, Eastern Europe, Russia and other developing markets.The share of sales and profits we derive from our international operations and exports from the United States is significant and growing. This trend increases our exposure to the performance of many developing economies in addition to the developed economies outside of the United States. For example, during 2012, approximately 8% of our net sales were generated from China and approximately 19% of our property, plant and equipment were located there. If the Chinese economy were to experience a significant slowdown, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.There are a number of risks in doing business internationally, which may impede our ability to achieve our strategic objectives relating to our foreign operations. Many developing countries have a significant degree of political and economic uncertainty and social turmoil that may impede our ability to implement and achieve our international growth objectives. Conducting business internationally subjects us to corporate governance and management challenges in consideration of the numerous U.S. 5and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings and funds, exchange controls, labor regulations, nationalization, anti-boycott provisions and anti-bribery laws (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Convention). Failure by the Company or its sales representatives, agents or distributors to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, all or any of which could negatively impact our business and reputation. Our foreign operations also subject us to the risks of international terrorism and hostilities.Our operations depend on maintaining a skilled workforce, and any interruption in our workforce could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. Their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. Our future success will also depend on our ability to identify, attract, and retain highly qualified managerial, technical (including research and development), sales and marketing, and customer service personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not succeed in identifying, attracting, or retaining qualified personnel. With our strategy to expand internationally into developing markets, we may incur additional risks as some developing economies lack a sufficiently trained labor pool.Any interruption of our workforce, including interruptions due to unionization efforts, changes in labor relations or shortages of appropriately skilled individuals could impact our results of operations and financial condition.Our revenues and results of operations may suffer if we cannot continue to enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights.We rely upon patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in foreign countries, as well as agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights. However, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to provide a competitive advantage. Further, the laws and their application in certain foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. Accordingly, in certain countries, we may be unable to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could impact our competitive position.Further, third parties may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that those claims are without merit, defending those claims and contesting the validity of patents can be time-consuming and costly. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing, marketing or selling certain of our products.Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market trends, such as changes in discount rates and actual investment return on pension assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our funding obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. Significant changes in discount rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may increase our benefit obligations and adversely impact our results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows through our annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities. For a discussion regarding how the financial statements have been affected by significant changes in 2012, refer to the pension related disclosure under "Part II, Item 7 – Critical Accounting Policies" and Note 11 to the Company's consolidated financial statements.We are subject to changes in the U.S. regulatory environment, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Our businesses, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected if laws, regulations or standards relating to us, our products or the markets in which we operate are newly implemented or changed. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, “the Acts”) were signed into law. The Acts make broad-based changes to the U.S. health care system, which could significantly affect the U.S. economy and our financial results. While the provisions of the Acts are not expected to have any significant short-term impacts, the long-term potential impacts on our business and the consolidated financial statements are currently uncertain. We are currently assessing the potential impact of the Acts.A significant fluctuation between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could adversely impact our operating income.Although our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our sales and operating costs are realized in other currencies. Our profitability is affected by movements of the U.S. dollar against other foreign currencies in which we generate revenues and incur expenses. Significant long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, in particular an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, could have an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.6Changes in tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect profitability.Our business is subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowances of deferred tax assets or changes in tax laws.The amount of income taxes paid is subject to ongoing audits by United States federal, state and local tax authorities and by foreign tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems.The conduct and management of our business relies extensively on information technology systems. If these systems are damaged, cease to function properly or are subject to a cyber security breach, we may suffer an interruption in our ability to manage and operate the business and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.Our global operations are subject to increasingly complex environmental regulatory requirements.We are subject to increasingly complex environmental regulations affecting international manufacturers, including those related to air and water emissions, waste management and climate change.There is a growing political and scientific belief that emissions of greenhouse gases ("GHG") alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting the global climate. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. These concerns may lead to international, national, regional or local legislative or regulatory responses in the future. Such regulation could result in new or additional regulatory or product standard requirements for the Company's global businesses. We are unable, at this time, to predict the significance of these requirements as the impact of any future GHG legislative, regulatory or product standards is dependent on the timing and design of the mandates or standards. Furthermore, the potential physical impacts of theorized climate change on the Company's customers, and therefore on the Company's operations, are speculative and highly uncertain, and would be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographical regions. These may include changes in weather patterns (including drought and rainfall levels), water availability, storm patterns and intensities, and temperature levels. These potential physical effects may adversely impact the cost, production, sales and financial performance of the Company's operations which we are unable, at this time, to predict.It is our policy to apply strict standards for environmental protection to all of our operations inside and outside the United States, even when we are not subject to local government regulations. We may incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, liabilities resulting from third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or our products could be enjoined from entering certain jurisdictions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws.We also face increasing complexity in our products design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the design, production and labeling of our products that are sold worldwide in multiple jurisdictions. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict, and liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated locations can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.7ITEM 1C. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTEXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTName Age PositionJohn M. Stropki, Jr. 62 Executive Chairman of the Board effective December 31, 2012; Chairman of the Board since October 13, 2004 to December 31, 2012; Director since 1998; Chief Executive Officer and President since June 3, 2004 to December 31, 2012; Chief Operating Officer from May 1, 2003 to June 3, 2004; Executive Vice President from 1995 to June 3, 2004; and President, North America from 1996 to 2003.Christopher L. Mapes 51 President and Chief Executive Officer effective December 31, 2012; Chief Operating Officer from September 1, 2011 to December 31, 2012; Director since February 2010. Prior to his service with the Company, Mr. Mapes was Executive Vice President of A.O. Smith Corporation (a global manufacturer with a water heating and water treatment technologies business and an electric motor and motor solutions business) a position he held from 2006 through August 2011, and the President of its Electrical Products unit, a position he held from September 2004 through August 2011.Vincent K. Petrella 52 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since October 7, 2005; Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from February 4, 2004 to October 7, 2005; and Vice President, Corporate Controller from 2001 to 2003.Frederick G. Stueber 59 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 1996.George D. Blankenship 50 Senior Vice President; President, Lincoln Electric North America since July 30, 2009; Senior Vice President, Global Engineering from October 7, 2005 to July 30, 2009; Vice President, Global Engineering from May 5, 2005 to October 7, 2005; President, Lincoln Electric North America of The Lincoln Electric Company since July 30, 2009; Senior Vice President; President, Lincoln Cleveland of The Lincoln Electric Company from January 8, 2008 to July 30, 2009; Senior Vice President, U.S. Operations of The Lincoln Electric Company from October 7, 2005 to January 8, 2008; Vice President, Cleveland Operations of The Lincoln Electric Company from June 6, 2005 to October 7, 2005; and Vice President, Engineering and Quality Assurance of The Lincoln Electric Company from 2000 to June 6, 2005.Gabriel Bruno 45 Vice President, Chief Information Officer since May 1, 2012; Vice President, Corporate Controller from 2005 to May 1, 2012.Gretchen A. Farrell 50 Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Compliance since July 30, 2009; Vice President, Human Resources from May 5, 2005 to July 30, 2009; and Vice President, Human Resources of The Lincoln Electric Company since March 5, 2003.Thomas A. Flohn 52 Vice President; President, Lincoln Electric Europe, Middle East & Africa (EMEA) since July 1, 2010; Vice President; President, Lincoln Asia Pacific from January 1, 2005 to June 30, 2010; and Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Lincoln Electric Asia Pacific from May 1, 1999 to December 31, 2004.Steven B. Hedlund 46 Vice President, Strategy and Business Development since September 15, 2008. Prior to his service with the Company, Mr. Hedlund was the Vice President, Growth and Innovations with Master Lock, LLC (a security products company) from June 1, 2005 to July 1, 2008.David M. LeBlanc 48 Senior Vice President; President, Lincoln Electric International since July 30, 2009; Vice President; President, Lincoln Electric Europe and Russia from March 10, 2008 to July 30, 2009; Vice President; President, Lincoln Electric Europe from September 1, 2005 to March 10, 2008; and Vice President; President, Lincoln Electric Latin America from January 1, 2002 to August 31, 2005.The Company has been advised that there is no arrangement or understanding among any one of the officers listed and any other persons pursuant to which he or she was elected as an officer. The executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors normally for a term of one year and/or until the election of their successors.