1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. In that case, the value of our securities could decline substantially. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. During this period, the markets exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, to maintain our securities lending activities and to replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. As a holding company with no direct operations, our principal asset is the capital stock of our insurance subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses depends significantly upon the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us. Payments of dividends and advances or repayment of funds to us by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by the applicable laws and regulations of their respective jurisdictions, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds. Changes in these laws could constrain the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us in sufficient amounts and at times necessary to meet our debt obligations and corporate expenses. For our insurance and other subsidiaries, the principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums and fees, annuity considerations and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. At the holding company level, sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short-term liquid investments and short- and long-term instruments, including credit facilities, commercial paper and medium- and long-term debt. In the event that current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. See “Item 1. Business – Ratings” for a complete description of our ratings. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than we prefer or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Recently, our credit spreads have shown considerable volatility. A widening of our credit spreads could increase the interest rate we must pay on any new debt obligation we may issue. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and we expect any recovery to be slow. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007, substantially increased during the second half of 2008 and continued through the first part of 2009. Concerns over unemployment, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These events and the reemergence of market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and are also dependent upon customer behavior. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2009, our earnings were unfavorable affected by realized investment losses and impairments of intangible assets of $1.1 billion. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. 26 Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our contract holders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our participation in the TARP CPP subjects us to additional restrictions, oversight and costs, and has other potential consequences, which could materially affect our business, results and prospects. On July 10, 2009, in connection with the TARP CPP, we issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury 950,000 shares of Series B preferred stock together with a related warrant to purchase up to 13,049,451 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $10.92 per share, in accordance with the terms of the TARP CPP, for an aggregate purchase price of $950 million. Access to TARP CPP was an important component of our strategy to enhance our capital position and financial flexibility. We believe that the amount of our participation in the TARP CPP offers us the ability to exit the program, if necessary, to manage the potential material consequences to our businesses from the potential restrictions, oversight and costs of participation, which include the following: · Our acceptance of the TARP CPP funds could cause us to be perceived as having greater capital needs and weaker overall financial prospects than those of our competitors that have stated that they are not participating in the TARP CPP, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results; · Receipt of the TARP CPP funds subjects us to restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. For example, the ARRA and recently promulgated regulations thereunder contain significant limitations on the amount and form of bonus, retention and other incentive compensation that participants in the TARP CPP may pay to executive officers and senior management. These provisions may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain executive officers and other key personnel. Other regulatory initiatives applicable to participants in federal funding programs may also be forthcoming as the U.S. Government continues to address dislocations in the financial markets. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner; · Future federal statutes may adversely affect the terms of the TARP CPP that are applicable to us and the Treasury Department may amend the terms of our agreement with them unilaterally if required by future statutes, including in a manner materially adverse to us; · Our participation in the TARP CPP imposes additional restrictions on our ability to increase our common stock dividend. In particular, we would need to obtain the U.S. Treasury’s consent for any increase in our current quarterly dividend of $0.01 per share of our common stock, as well as any stock repurchase, until the third anniversary of such investment unless, prior to such third anniversary, we redeem all of the shares of Series B preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury or the U.S. Treasury transfers such preferred stock to third parties. We are also unable to repurchase or redeem shares of our common stock or any series of preferred stock outstanding unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods on the Series B preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury are fully paid; and · If we do not repurchase the warrant from the U.S. Treasury when we repay the investment, the U.S. Treasury will liquidate the warrant, which will dilute the ownership interest of our existing holders of common stock. 27 If our businesses do not perform well and/or their estimated fair values decline or the price of our common stock does not increase, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill represents the excess of the acquisition price incurred to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets as of the date of acquisition. As of December 31, 2009, we had a total of $3.0 billion of goodwill on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, of which $2.2 billion related to our Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance segment and $440 million related to our Retirement Solutions – Annuities segment. We test goodwill at least annually for indications of value impairment with consideration given to financial performance and other relevant factors. In addition, certain events, including a significant and adverse change in legal factors or the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator or unanticipated competition, would cause us to review the carrying amounts of goodwill for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. If the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill is lower than its carrying amount, goodwill is impaired and written down to its fair value, and a charge is reported in impairment of intangibles on our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss). For the year ended December 31, 2009, we took total pre-tax impairment charges of $680 million, primarily related to our annuities business. Subsequent reviews of goodwill could result in additional impairment of goodwill during 2010, and such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position, but will not affect the statutory capital of our insurance subsidiaries. For more information on goodwill, see Note 10 and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” in the MD&A. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate capital gains from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. If, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position, but will not affect the statutory capital of our insurance subsidiaries. Because we are a holding company with no direct operations, the inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations. We are a holding company and we have no direct operations. Our principal asset is the capital stock of our insurance subsidiaries. At the holding company level, sources of liquidity in normal markets include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including credit facilities, commercial paper and medium- and long-term debt. However, our ability to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders, repurchase our securities and pay corporate expenses depends primarily on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us. Under Indiana laws and regulations, our Indiana insurance subsidiaries, including LNL, our primary insurance subsidiary, may pay dividends to us without prior approval of the Commissioner up to a certain threshold, or must receive prior approval of the Commissioner to pay a dividend if such dividend, along with all other dividends paid within the preceding 12 consecutive months exceed the statutory limitation. The current Indiana statutory limitation is the greater of 10% of the insurer’s contract holders’ surplus, as shown on its last annual statement on file with the Commissioner or the insurer’s statutory net gain from operations for the prior calendar year. In addition, payments of dividends and advances or repayment of funds to us by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by the applicable laws of their respective jurisdictions requiring that our insurance subsidiaries hold a specified amount of minimum reserves in order to meet future obligations on their outstanding policies. These regulations specify that the minimum reserves shall be calculated to be sufficient to meet future obligations, after giving consideration to future required premiums to be received, and are based on certain specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates and methods of valuation, which are subject to change. In order to meet their claims-paying obligations, our insurance subsidiaries regularly monitor their reserves to ensure we hold sufficient amounts to cover actual or expected contract and claims payments. At times, we may determine that reserves in excess of the minimum may be needed to ensure sufficiency. 28 Changes in these laws can constrain the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us in sufficient amounts and at times necessary to meet our debt obligations and corporate expenses. For example, in September of 2008, the NAIC adopted a new statutory reserving standard for variable annuities known as VACARVM, which was effective as of December 31, 2009. This reserving requirement replaced the previous statutory reserving practices for variable annuities with guaranteed benefits, and any change in reserving practices has the potential to increase or decrease statutory reserves from previous levels. Requiring our insurance subsidiaries to hold additional reserves has the potential to constrain their ability to pay dividends to the holding company. Investments of our insurance subsidiaries support their statutory reserve liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, 67% of these investments were available-for-sale (“AFS”) fixed maturity securities of various holdings, types and maturities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. Beginning in 2008 and continuing into 2009, the capital and credit markets experienced an unusually high degree of volatility. As a result, the market for fixed income securities has experienced illiquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events and increased expected probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to sell, if desired. These market disruptions have led to increased impairments of securities in the general accounts of our insurance subsidiaries, thereby reducing contract holders’ surplus. The earnings of our insurance subsidiaries also impact contract holders’ surplus. Principal sources of earnings are insurance premiums and fees, annuity considerations and income from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Recent economic conditions have resulted in lower earnings in our insurance subsidiaries. Lower earnings constrain the growth in our insurance subsidiaries’ capital, and therefore, can constrain the payment of dividends and advances or repayment of funds to us. In addition, the amount of surplus that our insurance subsidiaries could pay as dividends is constrained by the amount of surplus they hold to maintain their financial strength ratings, to provide an additional layer of margin for risk protection and for future investment in our businesses. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we believe that our insurance subsidiaries have sufficient liquidity to meet their contract holder obligations and maintain their operations. The result of the difficult economic and market conditions in reducing the contract holders’ surplus of our insurance subsidiaries has affected our ability to pay shareholder dividends and to engage in share repurchases. We have taken actions to reduce the holding company’s liquidity needs, including reducing our quarterly common dividend to $0.01 per share, as well as to increase the capital of our insurance subsidiaries through our $690 million common stock offering in June 2009 and participation in the TARP CPP. In the event that current resources do not satisfy our current needs, we may have to seek additional financing, which may not be available or only available with unfavorable terms and conditions. For a further discussion of liquidity, see “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources” in the MD&A. The difficulties faced by other financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. We also may have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and/or equity investments. There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets would not materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, we distribute a significant amount of our insurance, annuity and mutual fund products through large financial institutions. We believe that the mergers of several of these entities, as well as the negative impact of the markets on these entities, has disrupted and may lead to further disruption of their businesses, which may have a negative effect on our production levels. Our participation in a securities lending program and a reverse repurchase program subjects us to potential liquidity and other risks. We participate in a securities lending program for our general account whereby fixed income securities are loaned by our agent bank to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms and commercial banks. The borrowers of our securities provide us with collateral, typically in cash, which we separately maintain. We invest such cash collateral in other securities, primarily in commercial paper and money market or other short term funds. Securities with a fair value of $479 million were on loan under the program as of December 31, 2009. Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. We were liable for cash collateral under our control of $501 million as of December 31, 2009. 29 We participate in a reverse repurchase program for our general account whereby we sell fixed income securities to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms, with a concurrent agreement to repurchase those same securities at a determined future date. The borrowers of our securities provide us with cash collateral which is typically invested in fixed maturity securities. The fair value of securities pledged under reverse repurchase agreements was $359 million as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, substantially all of the securities on loan under the program could be returned to us by the borrowers at any time. Collateral received under the reverse repurchase program cannot be returned prior to maturity; however, market conditions on the repurchase date may limit our ability to enter into new agreements. The return of loaned securities or our inability to enter into new reverse repurchase agreements would require us to return the cash collateral associated with such securities. In addition, in some cases, the maturity of the securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we have purchased with cash received from the third parties) may exceed the term of the related securities and the market value may fall below the amount of cash received as collateral and invested. If we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice and we are forced to sell securities to meet the return obligation, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, and we may be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. In addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, such as those conditions we have experienced in the last twelve months, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. Our reserves for future policy benefits and claims related to our current and future business as well as businesses we may acquire in the future may prove to be inadequate. We establish and carry, as a liability, reserves based on estimates of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For our insurance products, we calculate these reserves based on many assumptions and estimates, including, but not limited to, estimated premiums we will receive over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the lapse rate of the policies, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the assets we purchase with the premiums we receive. As part of our transition plan related to the rescission of a reinsurance treaty covering disability income business, we conducted a reserve study to determine the adequacy of the reserves to cover contract holder obligations during the fourth quarter of 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we increased reserves as a result of our review of the adequacy of reserves supporting this business and wrote off certain receivables related to the rescission that were deemed to be uncollectible, which resulted in a $33 million unfavorable effect to net income. The sensitivity of our statutory reserves and surplus established for our variable annuity base contracts and riders to changes in the equity markets will vary depending on the magnitude of the decline. The sensitivity will be affected by the level of account values relative to the level of guaranteed amounts, product design and reinsurance. Statutory reserves for variable annuities depend upon the cumulative equity market impacts on the business in force, and therefore, result in non-linear relationships with respect to the level of equity market performance within any reporting period. The assumptions and estimates we use in connection with establishing and carrying our reserves are inherently uncertain. Accordingly, we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amount or the timing of the payment of actual benefits and claims or whether the assets supporting the policy liabilities will grow to the level we assume prior to payment of benefits or claims. If our actual experience is different from our assumptions or estimates, our reserves may prove to be inadequate in relation to our estimated future benefits and claims. Because the equity markets and other factors impact the profitability and expected profitability of many of our products, changes in equity markets and other factors may significantly affect our business and profitability. The fee revenue that we earn on equity-based variable annuities and VUL insurance policies is based upon account values. Because strong equity markets result in higher account values, strong equity markets positively affect our net income through increased fee revenue. Conversely, a weakening of the equity markets results in lower fee income and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and capital resources. 30 The increased fee revenue resulting from strong equity markets increases the expected gross profits (“EGPs) from variable insurance products as do better than expected lapses, mortality rates and expenses. As a result, higher EGPs may result in lower net amortized costs related to deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”), deferred sales inducements (“DSI”), value of business acquired (“VOBA”), DFEL and changes in future contract benefits. However, a decrease in the equity markets, as well as worse than expected increases in lapses, mortality rates and expenses, depending upon their significance, may result in higher net amortized costs associated with DAC, DSI, VOBA, DFEL and changes in future contract benefits and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and capital resources. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we reset our baseline of account values from which EGPs are projected, which we refer to as our “reversion to the mean” (“RTM”) process. As a result of this and the impact of the volatile capital market conditions on our annuity reserves, we had a cumulative unfavorable prospective unlocking of $223 million, after-tax. If unfavorable economic conditions return, additional unlocking of our RTM assumptions could be possible in future periods. However, if we were to have unlocked our RTM assumption in the corridor as of December 31, 2009, we would have recorded a favorable prospective unlocking of approximately $300 million, pre-tax, as a result of improved market conditions in 2009. For further information about our RTM process, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL” in the MD&A. Changes in the equity markets, interest rates and/or volatility affect the profitability of our products with guaranteed benefits; therefore, such changes may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. Certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed benefit riders. These include GDB, GWB and GIB riders. Our GWB, GIB and 4LATER® (a form of GIB rider) features have elements of both insurance benefits accounted for under the Financial Services – Insurance – Claim Costs and Liabilities for Future Policy Benefits Subtopic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards CodificationTM (“ASC”) (“benefit reserves”) and embedded derivatives accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the FASB ASC (“embedded derivative reserves”). The benefit reserves resulting from a benefit ratio unlocking component are calculated in a manner consistent with our GDB, as described below. We calculate the value of the embedded derivative reserve and the benefit reserves based on the specific characteristics of each guaranteed living benefit feature. The amount of reserves related to GDB for variable annuities is tied to the difference between the value of the underlying accounts and the GDB, calculated using a benefit ratio approach. The GDB reserves take into account the present value of total expected GDB payments, the present value of total expected GDB assessments over the life of the contract, claims paid to date and assessments to date. Reserves for our GIB and certain GWB with lifetime benefits are based on a combination of fair value of the underlying benefit and a benefit ratio approach that is based on the projected future payments in excess of projected future account values. The benefit ratio approach takes into account the present value of total expected GIB payments, the present value of total expected GIB assessments over the life of the contract, claims paid to date and assessments to date. The amount of reserves related to those GWB that do not have lifetime benefits is based on the fair value of the underlying benefit. Both the level of expected payments and expected total assessments used in calculating the benefit ratio are affected by the equity markets. The liabilities related to fair value are impacted by changes in equity markets, interest rates and volatility. Accordingly, strong equity markets will decrease the amount of reserves that we must carry, and strong equity markets, increases in interest rates and decreases in volatility will generally decrease the reserves calculated using fair value. Conversely, a decrease in the equity markets will increase the expected future payments used in the benefit ratio approach, which has the effect of increasing the amount of reserves. Also, a decrease in the equity market along with a decrease in interest rates and an increase in volatility will generally result in an increase in the reserves calculated using fair value, which are the conditions we have experienced recently. Increases in reserves would result in a charge to our earnings in the quarter in which the increase occurs. Therefore, we maintain a customized dynamic hedge program that is designed to mitigate the risks associated with income volatility around the change in reserves on guaranteed benefits. However, the hedge positions may not be effective to exactly offset the changes in the carrying value of the guarantees due to, among other things, the time lag between changes in their values and corresponding changes in the hedge positions, high levels of volatility in the equity markets and derivatives markets, extreme swings in interest rates, contract holder behavior different than expected, a strategic decision to under- or over-hedge in reaction to extreme market conditions or inconsistencies between economic and statutory reserving guidelines and divergence between the performance of the underlying funds and hedging indices. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we experienced a breakage on our guaranteed living benefits net derivatives results of $(137) million, $176 million and $(136) million, respectively, pre-tax and before the associated amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL and changes in other contract holder funds and funds withheld reinsurance liabilities. Breakage is defined as the difference between the change in the value of the liabilities, excluding the amount related to the non-performance risk component, and the change in the fair value of the derivatives. Breakage can be positive or negative. The non-performance risk factor is required under the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topic of the FASB ASC, which requires us to consider our own credit standing, which is not hedged, in the valuation of certain of these liabilities. A decrease in our own credit spread could cause the value of these liabilities to increase, resulting in a reduction to net income. Conversely, an increase in our own credit spread could cause the value of these liabilities to decrease, resulting in an increase to net income. 31 In addition, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay, and we are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging these guaranteed benefits increases, resulting in a reduction to net income. These, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on net income, financial condition or liquidity. Changes in interest rates may cause interest rate spreads to decrease and may result in increased contract withdrawals. Because the profitability of our fixed annuity and interest-sensitive whole life, UL and fixed portion of defined contribution and VUL insurance business depends in part on interest rate spreads, interest rate fluctuations could negatively affect our profitability. Changes in interest rates may reduce both our profitability from spread businesses and our return on invested capital. Some of our products, principally fixed annuities, interest-sensitive whole life, UL and the fixed portion of VUL insurance, have interest rate guarantees that expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the amounts we are able to earn on our general account investments intended to support our obligations under the contracts. Declines in our spread or instances where the returns on our general account investments are not enough to support the interest rate guarantees on these products could have a material adverse effect on our businesses or results of operations. In periods of increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account with higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep our interest-sensitive products competitive. We therefore may have to accept a lower spread and thus lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. In periods of declining interest rates, we have to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower yielding instruments then available. Moreover, borrowers may prepay fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities in our general account in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk. Because we are entitled to reset the interest rates on our fixed rate annuities only at limited, pre-established intervals, and since many of our contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates, our spreads could decrease and potentially become negative. Increases in interest rates may cause increased surrenders and withdrawals of insurance products. In periods of increasing interest rates, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as contract holders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns. This process may lead to a flow of cash out of our businesses. These outflows may require investment assets to be sold at a time when the prices of those assets are lower because of the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. A sudden demand among consumers to change product types or withdraw funds could lead us to sell assets at a loss to meet the demand for funds. Our requirements to post collateral or make payments related to declines in market value of specified assets may adversely affect our liquidity and expose us to counterparty credit risk. Many of our transactions with financial and other institutions, including settling futures positions, specify the circumstances under which the parties are required to post collateral. The amount of collateral we may be required to post under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, under the terms of some of our transactions, we may be required to make payments to our counterparties related to any decline in the market value of the specified assets. Losses due to defaults by others could reduce our profitability or negatively affect the value of our investments. Third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets may not pay or perform their obligations. These parties include the issuers whose securities we hold, borrowers under the mortgage loans we make, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers and other financial intermediaries. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, operational failure, corporate governance issues or other reasons. A further downturn in the U.S. and other economies could result in increased impairments. Defaults on our mortgage loans and write downs of mortgage equity may adversely affect our profitability. Our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial properties. Mortgage loans are stated on our balance sheet at unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any unamortized premium or discount, deferred fees or expenses, and are net of valuation allowances. We establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments as of the balance sheet date based on information, such as the market value of the underlying real estate securing the loan, any third party guarantees on the loan balance or any cross collateral agreements and their impact on expected recovery rates. As of December 31, 2009, there were nine impaired mortgage loans, or less than 1% of total mortgage loans, and eight commercial mortgage loans that were two or more payments delinquent. The performance of our mortgage loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. In addition, some of our mortgage loan investments have balloon payment maturities. An increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 32 Further, any geographic or sector exposure in our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are exposed. For information about our risk of write downs of mortgage equity, see “Consolidated Investments – Standby Real Estate Equity Commitments” and “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Uses of Capital” in the MD&A. Our investments are reflected within our consolidated financial statements utilizing different accounting bases, and, accordingly, there may be significant differences between cost and fair value that are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements. Our principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans on real estate, policy loans, short-term investments, derivative instruments, limited partnerships and other invested assets. The carrying value of such investments is as follows: · Fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as AFS, except for those designated as trading securities, and are reported at their estimated fair value. The difference between the estimated fair value and amortized cost of such securities (i.e., unrealized investment gains and losses) is recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”), net of adjustments to DAC, contract holder related amounts and deferred income taxes; · Fixed maturity and equity securities designated as trading securities, which in certain cases support reinsurance arrangements, are recorded at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in realized loss. However, offsetting the changes to fair value of the trading securities are corresponding changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liability associated with the underlying reinsurance arrangement. In other words, the investment results for the trading securities, including gains and losses from sales, are passed directly to the reinsurers through the contractual terms of the reinsurance arrangements. However, there are trading securities associated with the disability income business for which the reinsurance agreement with Swiss Re was rescinded, and therefore, we now retain the gains and losses on those securities; · Short-term investments include investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months, at the time of acquisition and are stated at amortized cost, which approximates fair value; · Mortgage loans on real estate are carried at unpaid principal balances, adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts and deferred fees or expenses, net of valuation allowances; · Policy loans are carried at unpaid principal balances; · Real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests are carried using the equity method of accounting; and · Other invested assets consist principally of derivatives with positive fair values. Derivatives are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in income from non-qualifying derivatives and derivatives in fair value hedging relationships. Derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships are reflected as a separate component of other comprehensive income or loss. Investments not carried at fair value on our consolidated financial statements, principally, mortgage loans, policy loans and real estate, may have fair values which are substantially higher or lower than the carrying value reflected on our consolidated financial statements. In addition, unrealized losses are not reflected in net income unless we realize the losses by either selling the security at below amortized cost or determine that the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary (i.e., impaired). Each of such asset classes is regularly evaluated for impairment under the accounting guidance appropriate to the respective asset class. Our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Fixed maturity, equity and trading securities and short-term investments, which are reported at fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, represented the majority of our total cash and invested assets. Pursuant to the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the FASB ASC, we have categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). 33 The determination of fair values in the absence of quoted market prices is based on valuation methodologies, securities we deem to be comparable and assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer and quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly increasing/decreasing or high/low interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that have been experiencing significant market valuation fluctuations. We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately placed fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans and other limited partnership interests. These asset classes represented 24% of the carrying value of our total cash and invested assets as of December 31, 2009. Even some of our very high quality assets have been more illiquid as a result of the recent challenging market conditions. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending activities, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described in the paragraph above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we might be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. We invest a portion of our invested assets in investment funds, many of which make private equity investments. The amount and timing of income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments, including private equity investments. The timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds’ schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Recent equity and credit market volatility may reduce investment income for these types of investments. In addition, other external factors may cause a drop in value of investments, such as ratings downgrades on asset classes. For example, Congress has proposed legislation to amend the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to permit bankruptcy courts to modify mortgages on primary residences, including an ability to reduce outstanding mortgage balances. Such actions by bankruptcy courts may impact the ratings and valuation of our residential mortgage-backed investment securities. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. 34 We adopted updates to the Investments – Debt and Equity Securities Topic of the FASB ASC for our debt securities effective January 1, 2009. This adoption required that an other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) loss be separated into the amount representing the decrease in cash flows expected to be collected, or “credit loss,” which is recognized in earnings, and the amount related to all other factors, or “noncredit loss,” which is recognized in OCI. In addition, the requirement for management to assert that it has the intent and ability to hold an impaired security until recovery was replaced by the requirement for management to assert if it either has the intent to sell the debt security or if it is more likely than not the entity will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. We regularly review our AFS securities for declines in fair value that we determine to be other-than-temporary. For an equity security, if we do not have the ability and intent to hold the security for a sufficient period of time to allow for a recovery in value, we conclude that an OTTI has occurred, and the amortized cost of the equity security is written down to the current fair value, with a corresponding change to realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss). When assessing our ability and intent to hold the equity security to recovery, we consider, among other things, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the equity security as well as the cause of decline, a fundamental analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and overall financial condition of the issuer. For a debt security, if we intend to sell a security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell a debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis and the fair value of the debt security is below amortized cost, we conclude than an OTTI has occurred and the amortized cost is written down to current fair value, with a corresponding charge to realized loss on our Consolidated Statements of Income. If we do not intend to sell a debt security or it is not more likely than not we will be required to sell a debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis but the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected is less than the amortized cost of the debt security (referred to as the credit loss), we conclude that an OTTI has occurred and the amortized cost is written down to the estimated recovery value with a corresponding charge to realized loss on our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss), as this is also deemed the credit portion of the OTTI. The remainder of the decline to fair value is recorded in OCI to unrealized OTTI on AFS securities on our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity, as this is considered a noncredit (i.e., recoverable) impairment. Net OTTI recognized in net income (loss) was $392 million, $851 million and $261 million, pre-tax, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The portion of OTTI recognized in OCI for the year ended December 31, 2009, was $275 million, pre-tax. Related to our unrealized losses, we establish deferred tax assets for the tax benefit we may receive in the event that losses are realized. The realization of significant realized losses could result in an inability to recover the tax benefits and may result in the establishment of valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. Realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We will be required to pay interest on our capital securities with proceeds from the issuance of qualifying securities if we fail to achieve capital adequacy or net income and stockholders’ equity levels. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.5 billion in principal amount of capital securities outstanding. All of the capital securities contain covenants that require us to make interest payments in accordance with an alternative coupon satisfaction mechanism (“ACSM”) if we determine that one of the following triggers exists as of the 30th day prior to an interest payment date, or the “determination date”: 1. LNL’s RBC ratio is less than 175% (based on the most recent annual financial statement filed with the State of Indiana); or 2. (i) The sum of our consolidated net income for the four trailing fiscal quarters ending on the quarter that is two quarters prior to the most recently completed quarter prior to the determination date is zero or negative, and (ii) our consolidated stockholders’ equity (excluding accumulated OCI and any increase in stockholders’ equity resulting from the issuance of preferred stock during a quarter), or “adjusted stockholders’ equity,” as of (x) the most recently completed quarter and (y) the end of the quarter that is two quarters before the most recently completed quarter, has declined by 10% or more as compared to the quarter that is ten fiscal quarters prior to the last completed quarter, or the “benchmark quarter.” The ACSM would generally require us to use commercially reasonable efforts to satisfy our obligation to pay interest in full on the capital securities with the net proceeds from sales of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock with an exercise price greater than the market price. We would have to utilize the ACSM until the trigger events above no longer existed, and, in the case of test 2 above, our adjusted stockholders’ equity amount increased or declined by less than 10% as compared to the adjusted stockholders’ equity at the end of the benchmark quarter for each interest payment date as to which interest payment restrictions were imposed by test 2 above. 35 If we were required to utilize the ACSM and were successful in selling sufficient shares of common stock or warrants to satisfy the interest payment, we would dilute the current holders of our common stock. Furthermore, while a trigger event is occurring and if we do not pay accrued interest in full, we may not, among other things, pay dividends on or repurchase our capital stock. Our failure to pay interest pursuant to the ACSM will not result in an event of default with respect to the capital securities, nor will a nonpayment of interest, unless it lasts for ten consecutive years, although such breaches may result in monetary damages to the holders of the capital securities. In recent quarters, we have triggered the net income test as a result of quarterly consolidated net losses, and we may continue to trigger the net income test looking forward to future quarters. However, our efforts to raise capital in the form of equity in the second and third quarters of 2009 resulted in no trigger of the overall stockholders’ equity test looking forward to the quarters ending March 31, 2010, and June 30, 2010. The calculations of RBC, net income (loss) and adjusted stockholders’ equity are subject to adjustments and the capital securities are subject to additional terms and conditions as further described in supplemental indentures filed as exhibits to our Forms 8-K filed on March 13, 2007, May 17, 2006, and April 20, 2006. A decrease in the capital and surplus of our insurance subsidiaries may result in a downgrade to our credit and insurer financial strength ratings. In any particular year, statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, including the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries (which itself is sensitive to equity market and credit market conditions), the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth, changes in reserving requirements, such as VACARVM and principles based reserving, our inability to secure capital market solutions to provide reserve relief, such as issuing letters of credit to support captive reinsurance structures, changes in equity market levels, the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, the value of certain derivative instruments that do not get hedge accounting, changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, as well as changes to the NAIC RBC formulas. The RBC ratio is also affected by the product mix of the in-force book of business (i.e., the amount of business without guarantees is not subject to the same level of reserves as the business with guarantees). Most of these factors are outside of our control. Our credit and insurer financial strength ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios of our insurance company subsidiaries. The RBC ratio of LNL is an important factor in the determination of the credit and financial strength ratings of LNC and its subsidiaries. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital we must hold in order to maintain our current ratings. In addition, in extreme scenarios of equity market declines, the amount of additional statutory reserves that we are required to hold for our variable annuity guarantees may increase at a rate greater than the rate of change of the markets. Increases in reserves reduce the statutory surplus used in calculating our RBC ratios. To the extent that our statutory capital resources are deemed to be insufficient to maintain a particular rating by one or more rating agencies, we may seek to raise additional capital through public or private equity or debt financing, which may be on terms not as favorable as in the past. Alternatively, if we were not to raise additional capital in such a scenario, either at our discretion or because we were unable to do so, our financial strength and credit ratings might be downgraded by one or more rating agencies. For more information on risks regarding our ratings, see “A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered and/or hurt our relationships with creditors” below. A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered and/or hurt our relationships with creditors. Nationally recognized rating agencies rate the financial strength of our principal insurance subsidiaries and rate our debt. Ratings are not recommendations to buy our securities. Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically, and our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. In late September and early October of 2008, A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody’s and S&P each revised their outlook for the U.S. life insurance sector from stable to negative. We believe that the rating agencies continue to have the life insurance industry on negative outlook until a sustained recovery in the general economy. Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet contract holder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a result, our competitiveness. A downgrade of the financial strength rating of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position in the insurance industry by making it more difficult for us to market our products as potential customers may select companies with higher financial strength ratings and by leading to increased withdrawals by current customers seeking companies with higher financial strength ratings. This could lead to a decrease in fees as net outflows of assets increase, and therefore, result in lower fee income. Furthermore, sales of assets to meet customer withdrawal demands could also result in losses, depending on market conditions. The interest rates we pay on our borrowings are largely dependent on our credit ratings. A downgrade of our debt ratings could affect our ability to raise additional debt, including bank lines of credit, with terms and conditions similar to our current debt, and accordingly, likely increase our cost of capital. 36 As a result of raising capital of approximately $2.1 billion in the second and third quarters of 2009, Moody’s, S&P, Fitch and A.M. Best affirmed our debt ratings and the financial strength ratings of LNL, LLANY and FPP. Our ratings outlook remains negative, with the exception of S&P, which revised its outlook to stable from negative. All of our ratings and ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies, and therefore, no assurance can be given that our principal insurance subsidiaries or we can maintain these ratings. See “Item 1. Business – Ratings” for a complete description of our ratings. Certain blocks of our insurance business purchased from third-party insurers under indemnity reinsurance agreements may require us to place assets in trust, secure letters of credit or return the business, if the financial strength ratings and/or capital ratios of certain insurance subsidiaries are not maintained at specified levels. Under certain indemnity reinsurance agreements, one of our insurance subsidiaries, LLANY, provides 100% indemnity reinsurance for the business assumed, however, the third-party insurer, or the “cedent,” remains primarily liable on the underlying insurance business. Under these types of agreements, as of December 31, 2009, we held statutory reserves of approximately $3.4 billion. These indemnity reinsurance arrangements require that our subsidiary, as the reinsurer, maintain certain insurer financial strength ratings and capital ratios. If these ratings or capital ratios are not maintained, depending upon the reinsurance agreement, the cedent may recapture the business, or require us to place assets in trust or provide letters of credit at least equal to the relevant statutory reserves. Under the largest indemnity reinsurance arrangement, we held approximately $2.2 billion of statutory reserves as of December 31, 2009. LLANY must maintain an A.M. Best financial strength rating of at least B+, an S&P financial strength rating of at least BB+ and a Moody’s financial strength rating of at least Ba1, as well as maintain a RBC ratio of at least 160% or an S&P capital adequacy ratio of 100%, or the cedent may recapture the business. Under two other arrangements, by which we established approximately $1 billion of statutory reserves, LLANY must maintain an A.M. Best financial strength rating of at least B++, an S&P financial strength rating of at least BBB- and a Moody’s financial strength rating of at least Baa3. One of these arrangements also requires LLANY to maintain an RBC ratio of at least 185% or an S&P capital adequacy ratio of 115%. Each of these arrangements may require LLANY to place assets in trust equal to the relevant statutory reserves. As of December 31, 2009, LLANY’s RBC ratio exceeded 600%. See “Item 1. Business – Ratings” for a complete description of our ratings. If the cedent recaptured the business, LLANY would be required to release reserves and transfer assets to the cedent. Such a recapture could adversely impact our future profits. Alternatively, if LLANY established a security trust for the cedent, the ability to transfer assets out of the trust could be severely restricted, thus negatively impacting our liquidity. Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the states in which we do business. The supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of our business and financial condition. The primary purpose of the supervision and regulation is the protection of our insurance contract holders, and not our investors. The extent of regulation varies, but generally is governed by state statutes. These statutes delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to state insurance departments. This system of supervision and regulation covers, among other things: · Standards of minimum capital requirements and solvency, including RBC measurements; · Restrictions of certain transactions between our insurance subsidiaries and their affiliates; · Restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; · Restrictions on the types of terms and conditions that we can include in the insurance policies offered by our primary insurance operations; · Limitations on the amount of dividends that insurance subsidiaries can pay; · The existence and licensing status of the company under circumstances where it is not writing new or renewal business; · Certain required methods of accounting; · Reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; and · Assignment of residual market business and potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. 37 We may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations, which may change from time to time. Also, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or impose substantial fines. Further, insurance regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to issue orders of supervision, which permit such authorities to supervise the business and operations of an insurance company. As of December 31, 2009, no state insurance regulatory authority had imposed on us any substantial fines or revoked or suspended any of our licenses to conduct insurance business in any state or issued an order of supervision with respect to our insurance subsidiaries, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, LFN and LFD, as well as our variable annuities and variable life insurance products, are subject to regulation and supervision by the SEC and FINRA. LNC, as a savings and loan holding company and NCLS are subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. As a savings and loan holding company, we would also be subject to the requirement that our activities be financially-related activities as defined by federal law (which includes insurance activities). These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and self-regulatory organizations broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the subsidiaries from carrying on their businesses in the event that they fail to comply with such laws and regulations. Finally, our radio operations require a license, subject to periodic renewal, from the Federal Communications Commission to operate. While management considers the likelihood of a failure to renew remote, any station that fails to receive renewal would be forced to cease operations. Recently, there has been an increase in potential federal initiatives that would affect the insurance industry. In January 2010, the White House proposed as a part of its budget proposal a new “financial crisis responsibility fee” on certain financial institutions as a means to recoup any shortfall in revenues resulting from the TARP program, so that the program does not add to the federal budget deficit. As proposed, the fee would apply to financial institutions, including bank holding companies, thrift holding companies, insured depositories, and insurance companies that own one of these entities, with over $50 billion in assets, regardless of whether the firm participated in the TARP program. The fee as proposed is expected to be an assessment of 15 basis points against a calculated “covered liabilities” amount and would be in place for a minimum of 10 years. Details as to the precise calculation of “covered liabilities” are still unclear. Further, legislation implementing this fee will need to be introduced and passed by Congress before this tax would take effect. In December 2009, the House passed H.R. 4173, “The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009,” a wide-ranging bill that includes a number of reforms. The bill includes, among other things, a new harmonized fiduciary standard for broker-dealers and investment advisers, the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, the creation of a pre-funded resolution trust to cover the costs of winding down certain failing institutions, the creation of the Federal Insurance Office within the Treasury Department and provisions relating to executive compensation. The bill would require financial institutions, including insurance companies, to contribute funds to the resolution trust. The ultimate impact of any of these federal initiatives on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources is currently indeterminable. Many of the foregoing regulatory or governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. In recent years, there has been increased scrutiny of our businesses by these bodies, which has included more extensive examinations, regular sweep inquiries and more detailed review of disclosure documents. These regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. These actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Attempts to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Actuarial Guideline 38 may fail in whole or in part resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Model Regulation entitled “Valuation of Life Insurance Policies,” commonly known as “Regulation XXX” or “XXX,” requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and UL policies with secondary guarantees. In addition, Actuarial Guideline 38 (“AG38”) clarifies the application of XXX with respect to certain UL insurance policies with secondary guarantees. Virtually all of our newly issued term and the great majority of our newly issued UL insurance products are now affected by XXX and AG38. 38 As a result of this regulation, we have established higher statutory reserves for term and UL insurance products and changed our premium rates for term life insurance products. We also have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the capital impact of XXX and AG38, including the use of letters of credit to support the reinsurance provided by captive reinsurance subsidiaries. In addition, although formal details have not been provided, we anticipate the rating agencies may require a portion of these letters of credit to be included in our leverage calculations, which would pressure our leverage ratios and potentially our ratings. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that there will not be regulatory, rating agency or other challenges to the actions we have taken to date. The result of those potential challenges could require us to increase statutory reserves or incur higher operating and/or tax costs. In addition, as a result of current capital market conditions and disruption in the credit markets, our ability to secure additional letters of credit or to secure them at current costs may impact the profitability of term and UL insurance products. See “Results of Insurance Solutions – Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance” in the MD&A for a further discussion of our capital management in connection with XXX. In light of the current downturn in the credit markets and the increased spreads on asset-backed debt securities, we also cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to implement actions to mitigate the impact of XXX or AG38 on future sales of term and UL insurance products. If we are unable to continue to implement those actions, we may be required to increase statutory reserves, incur higher operating costs and lower returns on products sold than we currently anticipate or reduce our sales of these products. We also may have to implement measures that may be disruptive to our business. For example, because term and UL insurance are particularly price-sensitive products, any increase in premiums charged on these products in order to compensate us for the increased statutory reserve requirements or higher costs of reinsurance may result in a significant loss of volume and adversely affect our life insurance operations. Changes in accounting standards issued by the FASB or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or guidance that are incorporated into the FASB ASC. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the SEC has proposed that large accelerated filers in the U.S. be required to report financial results in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board rather than GAAP, beginning with their fiscal year 2014 Annual Reports on Form 10-K. The Form 10-K would include audited IFRS financial statements for the transitional year, as well as the two preceding fiscal years. Thus, an issuer adopting IFRS in 2014 would need to file audited IFRS financial statements for fiscal years 2012, 2013, and 2014 in its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 2014. Despite the movement toward convergence of GAAP and IFRS, IFRS will be a complete change to our accounting and reporting and converting to IFRS will impose special demands on issuers in the areas of governance, employee training, internal controls, contract fulfillment and disclosure. IFRS will affect how we manage our business, as it will likely affect other business processes such as design of compensation plans, product design, etc. Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could result in financial losses or harm our businesses. We are, and in the future may be, subject to legal actions in the ordinary course of our insurance and investment management operations, both domestically and internationally. Pending legal actions include proceedings relating to aspects of our businesses and operations that are specific to us and proceedings that are typical of the businesses in which we operate. Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. In certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. Substantial legal liability in these or future legal or regulatory actions could have a material financial effect or cause significant harm to our reputation, which in turn could materially harm our business prospects. For more information on pending material legal proceedings, see Note 14. 39 Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could increase our tax costs and make the products that we sell less desirable. Changes to the Internal Revenue Code, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our effective tax rate and lower our net income. For example, on February 1, 2010, the Treasury Department released the “General Explanations of the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2011 Revenue Proposals” including proposals which, if enacted, would affect the taxation of life insurance companies and certain life insurance products. The statutory changes contemplated by the Administration’s revenue proposals would, if enacted into law, change the method used to determine the amount of dividend income received by a life insurance company on assets held in separate accounts used to support products, including variable life insurance and variable annuity contracts, that are eligible for the dividend received deduction. The dividend received deduction reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and expected amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. Our income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2009, included a separate account dividend received deduction benefit of $77 million. In addition, the proposals would affect the treatment of COLI policies by limiting the availability of certain interest deductions for companies that purchase those policies. If proposals of this type were enacted, our sale of COLI, variable annuities and variable life products could be adversely affected and our actual tax expense could increase, reducing earnings. Our enterprise risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our businesses or result in losses. We have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Many of our methods of managing risk and exposures are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate, such as the risk of pandemics causing a large number of deaths. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us, which may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. We face a risk of non-collectibility of reinsurance, which could materially affect our results of operations. We follow the insurance practice of reinsuring with other insurance and reinsurance companies a portion of the risks under the policies written by our insurance subsidiaries (known as “ceding”). As of December 31, 2009, we ceded $342.6 billion of life insurance in force to reinsurers for reinsurance protection. Although reinsurance does not discharge our subsidiaries from their primary obligation to pay contract holders for losses insured under the policies we issue, reinsurance does make the assuming reinsurer liable to the insurance subsidiaries for the reinsured portion of the risk. As of December 31, 2009, we had $6.4 billion of reinsurance receivables from reinsurers for paid and unpaid losses, for which they are obligated to reimburse us under our reinsurance contracts. Of this amount, $3.0 billion related to the sale of our reinsurance business to Swiss Re in 2001 through an indemnity reinsurance agreement. Swiss Re has funded a trust to support this business. The balance in the trust changes as a result of ongoing reinsurance activity and was $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2009. As a result of Swiss Re’s S&P financial strength rating dropping below AA-, Swiss Re was required to fund an additional trust to support this business of approximately $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2009, which was established during the fourth quarter of 2009. Furthermore, approximately $1.3 billion of the Swiss Re treaties are funds withheld structures where we have a right of offset on assets backing the reinsurance receivables. The balance of the reinsurance is due from a diverse group of reinsurers. The collectibility of reinsurance is largely a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. We perform annual credit reviews on our reinsurers, focusing on, among other things, financial capacity, stability, trends and commitment to the reinsurance business. We also require assets in trust, letters of credit or other acceptable collateral to support balances due from reinsurers not authorized to transact business in the applicable jurisdictions. Despite these measures, a reinsurer’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance contract, especially Swiss Re, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Significant adverse mortality experience may result in the loss of, or higher prices for, reinsurance. We reinsure a significant amount of the mortality risk on fully underwritten, newly issued, individual life insurance contracts. We regularly review retention limits for continued appropriateness and they may be changed in the future. If we were to experience adverse mortality or morbidity experience, a significant portion of that would be reimbursed by our reinsurers. Prolonged or severe adverse mortality or morbidity experience could result in increased reinsurance costs, and ultimately, reinsurers not willing to offer coverage. If we are unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient, we would either have to be willing to accept an increase in our net exposures or revise our pricing to reflect higher reinsurance premiums. If this were to occur, we may be exposed to reduced profitability and cash flow strain or we may not be able to price new business at competitive rates. 40 Catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for contract holder claims and the availability of reinsurance. Our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic, an act of terrorism, natural disaster or other event that causes a large number of deaths or injuries. Significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century, but the likelihood, timing or severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted. Additionally, the impact of climate change could cause changes in weather patterns, resulting in more severe and more frequent natural disasters such as forest fires, hurricanes, tornados, floods and storm surges. In our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. These events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Pandemics, natural disasters and man-made catastrophes, including terrorism, may produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Accordingly, our ability to write new business could also be affected. Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established or applicable reinsurance will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities, and a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Intense competition exists for the key employees with demonstrated ability, and we may be unable to hire or retain such employees, particularly in light of compensation restrictions that will be applicable to us in connection with our participation in the TARP CPP. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations due to their skills, knowledge of our business, their years of industry experience and the potential difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees. We compete with other financial institutions primarily on the basis of our products, compensation, support services and financial position. Sales in our businesses and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining key employees, including financial advisors, wholesalers and other employees, as well as independent distributors of our products. Our sales representatives are not captive and may sell products of our competitors. We sell our annuity and life insurance products through independent sales representatives. These representatives are not captive, which means they may also sell our competitors’ products. If our competitors offer products that are more attractive than ours, or pay higher commission rates to the sales representatives than we do, these representatives may concentrate their efforts in selling our competitors’ products instead of ours. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful. Additionally, complex legal and factual determinations and evolving laws and court interpretations make the scope of protection afforded our intellectual property uncertain, particularly in relation to our patents. While we believe our patents provide us with a competitive advantage, we cannot be certain that any issued patents will be interpreted with sufficient breadth to offer meaningful protection. In addition, our issued patents may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented or found unenforceable so that our patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. 41 We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon another party’s intellectual property rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or services. Any party that holds such a patent could make a claim of infringement against us. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, trade secret or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed a third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Intense competition could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Our businesses are intensely competitive. We compete based on a number of factors, including name recognition, service, the quality of investment advice, investment performance, product features, price, perceived financial strength and claims-paying and credit ratings. Our competitors include insurers, broker-dealers, financial advisors, asset managers and other financial institutions. A number of our business units face competitors that have greater market share, offer a broader range of products or have higher financial strength or credit ratings than we do. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry resulting in increased competition from large, well-capitalized financial services firms. Many of these firms also have been able to increase their distribution systems through mergers or contractual arrangements. Furthermore, larger competitors may have lower operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining their financial strength ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively. We expect consolidation to continue and perhaps accelerate in the future, thereby increasing competitive pressure on us. Anti-takeover provisions could delay, deter or prevent our change in control, even if the change in control would be beneficial to LNC shareholders. We are an Indiana corporation subject to Indiana state law. Certain provisions of Indiana law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change in control events affecting us. Also, provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws and other agreements to which we are a party could delay, deter or prevent our change in control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to shareholders. In addition, under Indiana law, directors may, in considering the best interests of a corporation, consider the effects of any action on shareholders, employees, suppliers and customers of the corporation and the communities in which offices and other facilities are located, and other factors the directors consider pertinent. One statutory provision prohibits, except under specified circumstances, LNC from engaging in any business combination with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (which shareholder, under the statute, would be considered an “interested shareholder”) for a period of five years following the time that such shareholder became an interested shareholder, unless such business combination is approved by the board of directors prior to such person becoming an interested shareholder. In addition, our articles of incorporation contain a provision requiring holders of at least three-fourths of our voting shares then outstanding and entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting together, to approve a transaction with an interested shareholder rather than the simple majority required under Indiana law. In addition to the anti-takeover provisions of Indiana law, there are other factors that may delay, deter or prevent our change in control. As an insurance holding company, we are regulated as an insurance holding company and are subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled. The insurance holding company acts and regulations restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company without prior regulatory approval. Under those statutes and regulations, without such approval (or an exemption), no person may acquire any voting security of a domestic insurance company, or an insurance holding company which controls an insurance company, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would “control” the insurance holding company or insurance company. “Control” is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of the voting securities of another person. Similarly, as a result of our ownership of NCLS, LNC is considered to be a savings and loan holding company. Federal banking laws generally provide that no person may acquire control of LNC, and gain indirect control of NCLS without prior regulatory approval. Generally, beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of LNC would be presumed to constitute control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 42 Item 