ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business may be adversely affected by cyclical and seasonal effects. The chemical industry in general is cyclical and demands for its products tend to be slightly seasonal. Seasonal usage follows varying agricultural seasonal patterns, weather conditions and weather related pressure from pests, and customer marketing programs and requirements. Weather patterns can have an impact on the Company’s operations. The end user of some of its products may, because of weather patterns, delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting season, which may result in a reduction of the use of some products and therefore may reduce our revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that the Company will adequately address any adverse seasonal effects. 8 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES The Company faces competition in certain markets from manufacturers of genetically modified seeds. The Company faces competition from larger chemical companies that market genetically modified (“GMO”) seeds in certain of the crop protection sectors in which the Company competes, particularly that of corn. To the extent that growers in these markets embrace the use of GMO seeds, such growers may reduce their use of pesticides sold by the Company. There is no guarantee that the Company will maintain its market share or pricing levels in sectors that are subject to competition from GMO seed marketers. The Company’s key customers typically carry competing product lines and may be influenced by the Company’s larger competitors. A significant portion of the Company’s products are sold to national distributors who also carry product lines of competitors that are much larger than the Company. Typically, revenues from the sales of these competing product lines and related program incentives constitute a greater part of our distributors’ income than do revenues from sales and program incentives arising from the Company’s product lines. Further, these distributors are often under pressure to market competing product lines in favor of the Company’s. In light of these facts, there is no assurance that such customers will market or continue to market our products aggressively or successfully or that the Company will be able to influence such customers to purchase our products in favor of those of our competitors. To the extent that capacity utilization is not fully realized at its manufacturing facilities, the Company may experience lower profitability. The Company has pursued a business strategy of acquiring manufacturing facilities at a steep discount to their replacement value. These acquisitions have enabled the Company to be more independent of overseas manufacturers than some of our competitors. While the Company endeavors continuously to maximize utilization of these several facilities, our success in these endeavors is dependent upon many factors beyond our control, including fluctuating market conditions, product life cycles, weather conditions, availability of raw materials and regulatory constraints, among other things. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maximize its utilization of capacity at its manufacturing facilities. To the extent that the Company experiences excess manufacturing capacity, it may experience lower profitability. Reduced availability and higher prices of raw materials may reduce the Company’s profitability and could threaten the viability of some of its products. In the recent past, there has been a material reduction in the number of suppliers of certain important raw materials used by the Company in many of its products. Certain of these raw materials are available solely from sources overseas or from single sources domestically. The price of these raw materials has increased sharply over the past year and continues to increase. Demand for these materials, however, appears to continue unabated within this industry. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to source some or all of these materials indefinitely or that it will be able to do so at a level of cost that will enable it to maintain its profit margin on its products. Foreign currency and interest rate risk and the use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. The Company engages in global business transactions. Where possible, the Company does business in its functional currency. However, there are certain situations in which the Company is unable to transact in its functional currency and engages in agreements—primarily material purchase contracts, that require settlement in a different currency. The Company has entered into derivatives as cash flow hedges in order to protect its trading 9 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES performance from the exposure of movements in exchange rate over time. The Company sets up foreign currency forward cover contracts via the Company’s banker, Bank of the West. Furthermore, the Company has in place two fixed interest rate swaps with the objective of reducing the Company’s exposure to movements in the LIBOR rate over time. The hedges are evaluated at the end of each quarter and the effective portions of gains and losses are recorded in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portions are recorded in current earnings. Quarterly variability in factors affecting the Company’s business may mean that an individual quarter’s result may not provide a realistic picture of the Company’s overall performance. Due to elements inherent to the Company’s business, such as differing and unpredictable weather patterns, crop growing cycles, changes in sales mix, ordering patterns that may vary in timing, and promotional programs, measuring the Company’s performance on a quarterly basis, (gross profit margins on a quarterly basis may vary significantly) even when such comparisons are favorable, is not as meaningful an indicator as full-year comparisons. The primary reason is that the use cycles do not necessarily coincide with financial reporting cycles. The Company’s cost structure, the combination of variable revenue streams, and the changing product mixes, result in varying quarterly levels of profitability. The potential impact on the Company’s operations during an economic downturn. An economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for these products and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products in a timely manner, or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Such volatility and disruption could adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain financing for both working capital needs and acquisitions. Dependence on the Company’s banking relationship. The Company is dependent on its banking relationship at all times and particularly in these current volatile times. The Company’s main bank is Bank of the West, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the French bank, BNP Paribas. Bank of the West has been the Company’s bank for more than 25 years. Bank of the West is the syndication manager for the Company’s loans and acts as the counterparty on the Company’s derivative transactions. The Company reviews the creditworthiness of its banks on a quarterly basis via both credit agencies and face-to-face meetings with senior management of the banks. Management believes that the Company has an excellent working relationship with Bank of the West and the other financial institutions in the Company’s banking syndicate. The industry in which the Company does business is extremely competitive and its business may suffer if the Company is unable to compete effectively. Generally, the treatment against pests of any kind is broad in scope, there being more than one way or one product for treatment, eradication, or suppression. The Company faces competition from many domestic and foreign manufacturers, marketers and distributors participating in its marketplace. Competition in the marketplace is based primarily on efficacy, price, safety and ease of application. Many of the Company’s competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and technical resources. The Company’s ability to compete depends on its ability to develop additional applications for its current products, and to expand its product lines and customer base. The Company competes principally on the basis of the quality of its products, and the technical service and support given to its customers. There can be no assurance that the Company will compete successfully with existing competitors or with any new competitors. 10 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES The distribution and sale of the Company’s products are subject to prior governmental approvals and thereafter ongoing governmental regulation. The Company’s products are subject to laws administered by federal, state and foreign governments, including regulations requiring registration, approval and labeling of its products. The labeling requirements restrict the use of and type of application for our products. More stringent restrictions could make our products less desirable, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Substantially all of the Company’s products are subject to the EPA registration and re-registration requirements, and are conditionally registered in accordance with FIFRA. Such registration requirements are based, among other things, on data demonstrating that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when used according to approved label directions. All states where any of the Company’s products are used also require registration before they can be marketed or used in that state. Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific data requirements be performed on the Company’s products. The Company, on its behalf and in joint efforts with other registrants, have and are currently furnishing certain required data relative to its products. Under FIFRA, the federal government requires registrants to submit a wide range of scientific data to support U.S. registrations. This requirement has significantly increased the Company’s operating expenses in such areas as testing and the production of new products. The Company expects such increases to continue in the future. Because scientific analyses are constantly improving, it cannot be determined with certainty whether or not new or additional tests may be required by regulatory authorities. Responding to such requirements may cause delays in the sales of our products that would adversely affect our profitability. While FIFRA Good Laboratory Practice standards specify the minimum practices and procedures that must be followed in order to ensure the quality and integrity of the data related to these tests that are submitted to the U.S. EPA. There can be no assurance the EPA will not request certain tests or studies be repeated. In addition, more stringent legislation or requirements may be imposed in the future. The Company can provide no assurance that any testing approvals or registrations will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that its resources will be adequate to meet the costs of regulatory compliance. The Company’s future success will depend on its ability to develop additional applications for its products, and to expand its product lines and customer base. The Company has grown primarily by a strategy of acquiring mature product lines from larger competitors and expanding sales of these products based on new applications and new users. The Company’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to develop additional applications for its products, and to expand its product lines and customer base in a highly competitive market. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in adequately addressing these development needs on a timely basis or that, if these developments are addressed, the Company will be successful in the marketplace. In addition, there can be no assurance that products or technologies (e.g., genetic engineering) developed by others will not render the Company’s products noncompetitive or obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on its financial and operating results. Many of the mature product lines the Company has acquired from larger competitors were divested as a result of mergers involving such large competitors. If the Company is unable to successfully position itself in smaller niche markets, its business may be materially adversely affected. The Company has attempted to position itself in smaller niche markets that have been or are being abandoned by larger chemical companies. These types of markets tend not to attract larger chemical companies due to the smaller volume demand. As a result, larger chemical companies have been divesting themselves of products that fall into such smaller niche markets. These smaller niche markets require significant and intensive management input and ongoing product research and are near product maturity. There can be no assurance that 11 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES the Company will be successful in these smaller niche markets or, if it is successful in one or more niche markets, that it will continue to be successful in such niche markets. The manufacturing of the Company’s products is subject to governmental regulations. The Company currently operates three manufacturing facilities—in Los Angeles, California; Axis, Alabama; and Marsing, Idaho—and owns and has manufacturing services provided in a fourth facility in Hannibal, Missouri (the “Facilities”). The Facilities operate under the terms and conditions imposed by required licenses and permits by state and local authorities. The manufacturing of key ingredients for the Company’s products occurs at the Facilities. An inability to renew or maintain a license or permit or a significant increase in the fees for such licenses or permits could impede the Company’s access to key ingredients and increase the cost of production, which, in turn, would materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to provide its products in a timely and affordable manner. The Company may be subject to environmental liabilities. The Company, its facilities, and its products are subject to numerous federal and state laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee health and safety. The Company continually adapts its manufacturing process to the environmental control standards of the various regulatory agencies. The U.S. EPA and other federal and state agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that could have a significant impact on the Company’s operations. The Company expends substantial funds to minimize the discharge of materials into the environment and to comply with governmental regulations relating to protection of the environment. Federal and state authorities may seek fines and penalties for violation of the various laws and governmental regulations, and could, among other things, impose liability on the Company for cleaning up the damage resulting from release of pesticides and other agents into the environment. The Company’s use of hazardous materials exposes it to potential liabilities. The Company’s development and manufacturing of chemical products involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. While the Company continually adapts its manufacturing process to the environmental control standards of regulatory authorities, it cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous or regulated materials. In the event of such contamination or injury, the Company may be held liable for significant damages or fines. In the event that such damages or fines are assessed, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial and operating results. The Company’s business may give rise to product liability claims not covered by insurance or indemnity agreements. The manufacturing, marketing, distribution and use of chemical products involve substantial risk of product liability claims. A successful product liability claim that is not insured may require the Company to pay substantial amounts of damages. In the event that such damages are paid, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial and operating results. Adverse results in pending legal and regulatory proceedings could have adverse effects on the Company’s business. The Company is currently, and may from time to time, be involved in legal and regulatory proceedings. The results of litigation and such proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. The Company has and will continue to expend resources and incur expenses in connection with these proceedings. There can be no assurance that the 12 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Company will be successful in these proceedings. While the Company continually evaluates insurance levels for product liability, property damage and other potential areas of risk, an adverse determination in one or more of these proceedings could subject the Company to significant liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. The Company relies on intellectual property that it may be unable to protect, or may be found to infringe the rights of others. The Company’s proprietary product formulations are protected, to the extent possible, as trade secrets and, to a lesser extent, by patents and trademarks. Most of the mature products that the Company has acquired that were patented are currently “off patent” because the patent has expired. The Company can provide no assurance that the way it protects its proprietary rights will be adequate or that its competitors will not independently develop similar or competing products. Further, the Company can provide no assurance that its is not infringing other parties’ rights. Any claims could require the Company to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property, or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of asserted infringement. The Company relies on key executives in large part for its success. The Company’s success is highly dependent upon the efforts and abilities of its executive officers, particularly Eric G. Wintemute, its President and Chief Executive Officer. Although Mr. Wintemute has entered into an employment agreement with the Company, this does not guarantee that he will continue his employment. The loss of the services of Mr. Wintemute or other executive officers could have a material adverse effect upon its financial and operating results. The Company is dependent on a limited number of customers, which makes us vulnerable to the continued relationship with and financial health of those customers. In 2008, three customers accounted for 46% of the company’s sales. The Company’s future prospects will depend on the continued business of such customers and on our continued status as a qualified supplier to such customers. The Company cannot guarantee that our current significant customers will continue to buy products from us at current levels. The loss of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s stock price may be volatile, and an investment in the Company’s stock could decline in value. The market prices for securities of companies in the Company’s industry have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. Often this volatility is unrelated to operating performance of a company. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by terrorist activities. The Company’s business depends on the free flow of products and services through the channels of commerce. Recently, in response to terrorists’ activities and threats aimed at the United States, transportation, mail, financial and other services have been slowed or stopped altogether. Further delays or stoppages in transportation, mail, financial or other services could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the Company may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for transportation, insurance and security as a result of the activities and potential activities. The Company may also experience delays in receiving payments from counterparties that may have been affected by 13 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES the terrorist activities and potential activities. The U.S. economy in general is being adversely affected by the terrorist activities and potential activities and any economic downturn could adversely impact results of operations, impair the ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely affect the ability to grow the business. The Company’s strategic practice of acquiring product lines may not result in enhanced profitability The Company has historically grown its business in part through acquisition of product lines, facilities and other assets. In conjunction with such acquisition activity, the Company performs financial analysis and estimates a projected return on its investment. There are many factors that might affect the actual results of any such acquisition, including market conditions, weather patterns, and the introduction of new technologies, to name but a few. Thus, there is no guarantee that an acquired product line or other asset will generate a return that is equal or greater to that which was calculated by the Company prior to the acquisition or that such acquisition will be profitable to the Company. Further, although the Company regularly engages in acquisition activities, there can be no guarantee that its efforts will continue to lead to successful transactions. Further, the costs of such acquisition activity may have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 