ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors The Company’s business may be adversely affected by cyclical and seasonal effects. The chemical industry in general is cyclical and demands for its products tend to be slightly seasonal. Seasonal usage follows varying agricultural seasonal patterns, weather conditions and weather related pressure from pests, and customer marketing programs and requirements. Weather patterns can have an impact on the Company’s operations. The end user of some of its products may, because of weather patterns, delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting season which may result in a reduction of the use of some products and therefore may reduce our revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that the Company will adequately address any adverse seasonal effects. The industry in which the Company does business is extremely competitive and its business may suffer if the Company is unable to compete effectively. Generally, the treatment against pests of any kind is broad in scope, there being more than one way or one product for treatment, eradication, or suppression. The Company faces competition from many domestic and foreign manufacturers, marketers and distributors participating in its marketplace. Competition in the marketplace is based primarily on efficacy, price, safety and ease of application. Many of the Company’s competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and technical resources. The Company’s ability to compete depends on its ability to develop additional applications for its current products, and to expand its product lines and customer base. The Company competes principally on the basis of the quality of its products, and the technical service and support given to its customers. There can be no assurance that the Company will compete successfully with existing competitors or with any new competitors. 8 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES The Company faces competition in certain markets from manufacturers of genetically modified seeds. The Company faces competition from larger chemical companies that market genetically modified (“GMO”) seeds in certain of the crop protection sectors in which the Company competes, particularly that of corn. To the extent that growers in these markets embrace the use of GMO seeds, such growers may reduce their use of pesticides sold by the Company. There is no guarantee that the Company will maintain its market share or pricing levels in sectors that are subject to competition from GMO seed marketers. The distribution and sale of the Company’s products are subject to prior governmental approvals and thereafter ongoing governmental regulation. The Company’s products are subject to laws administered by federal, state and foreign governments, including regulations requiring registration, approval and labeling of its products. The labeling requirements restrict the use of and type of application for our products. More stringent restrictions could make our products less desirable, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Substantially all of the Company’s products are subject to the EPA registration and re-registration requirements, and are conditionally registered in accordance with FIFRA. Such registration requirements are based, among other things, on data demonstrating that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when used according to approved label directions. All states where any of the Company’s products are used also require registration before they can be marketed or used in that state. Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific data requirements be performed on the Company’s products. The Company, on its behalf and in joint efforts with other registrants, have and are currently furnishing certain required data relative to its products. Under FIFRA, the federal government requires registrants to submit a wide range of scientific data to support U.S. registrations. This requirement has significantly increased the Company’s operating expenses in such areas as testing and the production of new products. The Company expects such increases to continue in the future. Because scientific analyses are constantly improving, it cannot be determined with certainty whether or not new or additional tests may be required by regulatory authorities. Responding to such requirements may cause delays in the sales of our products which delays would adversely affect our profitability. While FIFRA Good Laboratory Practice standards specify the minimum practices and procedures which must be followed in order to ensure the quality and integrity of data related to these tests submitted to the U.S. EPA, there can be no assurance the EPA will not request certain tests or studies be repeated. In addition, more stringent legislation or requirements may be imposed in the future. The Company can provide no assurance that any testing approvals or registrations will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that its resources will be adequate to meet the costs of regulatory compliance. The Company faces risks related to acquisitions of product lines. The Company has expanded and intends to continue to expand its operations through the acquisition of additional product lines from these larger competitors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional product lines, or successfully integrate any acquired product lines without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial problems. There is an increasing trend in selling mature product lines through a competitive bid process. As a result, we may not be the successful bidder for a desirable product, or, if successful, we may pay a higher price for such product than if there was no competitive bid process. Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks or effects, including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or circumstances, minimum purchase quantities, legal liabilities and amortization of acquired intangible assets and other one-time or ongoing acquisition related expenses. Some or all of these special risks or effects could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial and operating results. Client satisfaction or performance problems associated with a business or product line could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s reputation. In addition, there can be no assurance that acquired product lines, if any, will achieve anticipated revenues and earnings. 9 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES The Company’s future success will depend on its ability to develop additional applications for its products, and to expand its product lines and customer base. The Company has grown primarily by a strategy of acquiring mature product lines from larger competitors and expanding sales of these products based on new applications and new users. The Company’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to develop additional applications for its products, and to expand its product lines and customer base in a highly competitive market. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in adequately addressing these development needs on a timely basis or that, if these developments are addressed, the Company will be successful in the marketplace. In addition, there can be no assurance that products or technologies (e.g., genetic engineering) developed by others will not render the Company’s products noncompetitive or obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on its financial and operating results. Many of the mature product lines the Company has acquired from larger competitors were divested as a result of a mergers involving such large competitors. If the Company is unable to successfully position itself in smaller niche markets, its business may be materially adversely affected. The Company has attempted to position itself in smaller niche markets that have been or are being abandoned by larger chemical companies. These types of markets tend not to attract larger chemical companies due to the smaller volume demand. As a result, larger chemical companies have been divesting themselves of products that fall into such smaller niche markets. These smaller niche markets require significant and intensive management input and ongoing product research and are near product maturity. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in these smaller niche markets or, if it is successful in one or more niche markets, that it will continue to be successful in such niche markets. The manufacturing of the Company’s products is subject to governmental regulations. The Company currently operates three manufacturing facilities—in Los Angeles, California; Axis, Alabama; and Marsing, Idaho—and owns and has manufacturing services provided in a fourth facility in Hannibal, Missouri (the “Facilities”). The Facilities operate under the terms and conditions imposed by required licenses and permits by state and local authorities. The manufacturing of key ingredients for the Company’s products occurs at the Facilities. An inability to renew or maintain a license or permit or a significant increase in the fees for such licenses or permits could impede the Company’s access to key ingredients and increase the cost of production, which, in turn, would materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to provide its products in a timely and affordable manner. The Company may be subject to environmental liabilities. The Company, its facilities and its products are subject to numerous federal and state laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee health and safety. The Company continually adapts its manufacturing process to the environmental control standards of the various regulatory agencies. The U.S. EPA and other federal and state agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that could have a significant impact on the Company’s operations. The Company expends substantial funds to minimize the discharge of materials into the environment and to comply with governmental regulations relating to protection of the environment. Federal and state authorities may seek fines and penalties for violation of the various laws and governmental regulations, and could, among other things, impose liability on the Company for cleaning up the damage resulting from release of pesticides and other agents into the environment. The Company’s use of hazardous materials exposes it to potential liabilities. The Company’s development and manufacturing of chemical products involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. While the Company continually adapts its manufacturing process to the environmental 10 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES control standards of regulatory authorities, it cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous or regulated materials. In the event of such contamination or injury, the Company may be held liable for significant damages or fines. In the event that such damages or fines are assessed, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial and operating results. The Company’s business may give rise to product liability claims not covered by insurance or indemnity agreements. The manufacturing, marketing, distribution and use of chemical products involve substantial risk of product liability claims. A successful product liability claim which is not insured may require the Company to pay substantial amounts of damages. In the event that such damages are paid, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial and operating results. Adverse results in pending legal and regulatory proceedings could have adverse effects on the Company’s business. The Company is currently, and may from time to time, be involved in legal and regulatory proceedings. The results of litigation and such proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. The Company has and will continue to expend resources and incur expenses in connection with these proceedings. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in these proceedings. While the Company continually evaluates insurance levels for product liability, property damage and other potential areas of risk, an adverse determination in one or more of these proceedings could subject the Company to significant liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. The Company relies on intellectual property which it may be unable to protect, or may be found to infringe the rights of others. The Company’s proprietary product formulations are protected, to the extent possible, as trade secrets and, to a lesser extent, by patents and trademarks. Most of the mature products that the Company has acquired which were patented are currently “off patent” because the patent has expired. The Company can provide no assurance that the way it protects its proprietary rights will be adequate or that its competitors will not independently develop similar or competing products. Further, the Company can provide no assurance that its is not infringing other parties’ rights. Any claims could require the Company to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property, or acquire licenses to the intellectual property which is the subject of asserted infringement. The Company relies on key executives in large part for its success. The Company’s success is highly dependent upon the efforts and abilities of its executive officers, particularly Eric G. Wintemute, its President and Chief Executive Officer. Although Mr. Wintemute has entered into an employment agreement with the Company, this does not guarantee that he will continue his employment. The loss of the services of Mr. Wintemute or other executive officers could have a material adverse effect upon its financial and operating results. Concentration of ownership among the Company’s Co-Chairmen of the Board of Directors may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of March 6, 2008, Herbert A. Kraft and Glenn A. Wintemute, the Company’s Co-Chairmen of the Board of Directors, beneficially owned approximately 13% and 6%, respectively, of the Company’s common stock. 11 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES These stockholders as a group will be able to influence substantially the Company’s Board of Directors and thus its management and affairs. If acting together, they would be able to influence most matters requiring the approval by the Company’s stockholders, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets and any other significant corporate transaction. The concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control if opposed by these stockholders irrespective of whether the proposed transaction is at a premium price or otherwise beneficial to the Company’s stockholders as a whole. The Company is dependent on a limited number of customers, which makes us vulnerable to the continued relationship with and financial health of those customers. In 2007, three customers accounted for 41% of the company’s sales. The Company’s future prospects will depend on the continued business of such customers and on our continued status as a qualified supplier to such customers. The Company cannot guarantee that our current significant customers will continue to buy products from us at current levels. The loss of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s stock price may be volatile, and an investment in the Company’s stock could decline in value. The market prices for securities of companies in the Company’s industry have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. Often this volatility is unrelated to operating performance of a company. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by terrorist activities. The Company’s business depends on the free flow of products and services through the channels of commerce. Recently, in response to terrorists’ activities and threats aimed at the United States, transportation, mail, financial and other services have been slowed or stopped altogether. Further delays or stoppages in transportation, mail, financial or other services could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the Company may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for transportation, insurance and security as a result of the activities and potential activities. The Company may also experience delays in receiving payments from counterparties that may have been affected by the terrorist activities and potential activities. The U.S. economy in general is being adversely affected by the terrorist activities and potential activities and any economic downturn could adversely impact results of operations, impair the ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely affect the ability to grow the business. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Complying with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and changes to the New York Stock Exchange rules, will require the Company to expend significant resources. The Company is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, the Company will continue to invest necessary resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities. * * * 12 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Note On Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements relate to future periods and include descriptions of our plans, objectives, and underlying assumptions for future operations, our market opportunities, our acquisition opportunities, and our ability to compete. Generally, “may,” “could,” “will,” “would,” “expect,” “believe,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “continue” and similar words identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that can cause actual results to differ materially. For information on these risks and uncertainties, see the “Risk Factors” in this report. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 