Risk Factors, of this Annual Report.) ITEM 1 BUSINESS American Vanguard Corporation (“AVD”) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in January 1969 and operates as a holding company. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to the “Company”, or the “Registrant” in this Annual Report refer to AVD and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company conducts its business through its subsidiaries, AMVAC Chemical Corporation (“AMVAC”), GemChem, Inc. (“GemChem”), 2110 Davie Corporation (“DAVIE”), Quimica Amvac de Mexico S.A. de C.V. (“AMVAC M”), AMVAC de Costa Rica Sociedad Anonima (“AMVAC CR”), AMVAC Switzerland GmbH (“AMVAC S”), AMVAC do Brasil Representácoes Ltda (“AMVAC B”), AMVAC Chemical UK Ltd. (“AMVAC UK”) and Environmental Mediation, Inc (“EMI”). Based on similar economic and operational characteristics, the Company’s business is aggregated into one reportable segment. Refer to Part I, Item 7 for selective enterprise information. AMVAC AMVAC is a California corporation that traces its history from 1945. AMVAC is a specialty chemical manufacturer that develops and markets products for agricultural and commercial uses. It manufactures and formulates chemicals for crops, human and animal health protection. These chemicals, which include insecticides, fungicides, herbicides, molluscicides, growth regulators, and soil fumigants, are marketed in liquid, powder, and granular forms. Years ago AMVAC considered itself a distributor-formulator, but now AMVAC primarily manufactures, distributes, and formulates its own proprietary products or custom manufactures or formulates for others. AMVAC has historically expanded its business through both the acquisition of established chemistries (which it has revived in the marketplace) and the development and commercialization of new compounds through licensing arrangements. Below is a description of the Company’s acquisition/licensing activity over the past five years. On October 7, 2011—AMVAC completed the acquisition of the international rights to the cotton defoliant product tribufos (sold under the trade name Def ®) from Bayer CropScience AG (“BCS AG”). The acquired assets include registrations and data rights, rights relating to manufacturing and formulation know-how, inventories, and the trademark Def. Def complements AMVAC’s existing cotton defoliant product Folex®, which it has marketed since 2002. This acquisition also compliments the U.S. rights to Def that the Company purchased from BCS AG in July 2010 (see below). Both Folex and Def are fast and effective cotton defoliants that facilitate the removal of leaves surrounding the cotton boll and in combination with other products function as a harvest aid. On December 20, 2010—AMVAC completed the acquisition of a global product line relating to the active ingredient tebupirimfos from BCS AG. The acquired assets include registrations and data rights, rights relating to manufacturing and formulation know-how, inventories, and the trademarks Aztec®, Azteca® and Capinda®. When combined in a mixture with another active ingredient Cyfluthrin, the resulting dual active ingredient product is a leading insecticide that is registered in the United States as Aztec and Mexico as Azteca, where it is used to combat such soil borne insects as rootworm, cutworm, wireworm, seed corn maggots/beetles and white grub in a variety of corn crops. Additionally, it is registered in South Korea (and sold under the trade name Capinda) for use primarily in vegetable crops such as Chinese cabbage and ginseng. On December 7, 2010—AMVAC completed the acquisition of a global insecticide product line relating to the active ingredient ethoprophos (sold under the trade name Mocap®) from BCS AG. The acquired assets include registrations and data rights, rights relating to manufacturing and formulation know-how, inventories, the Ultima® packaging system and the trademarks Mocap and Ultima. Mocap is a leading soil insecticide that is registered in 50 countries where it is used to combat nematode species in wide range of crops. 1 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) On December 7, 2010—AMVAC completed the acquisition of a global (except for Europe and Argentina) insecticide product line relating to the active ingredient fenamiphos (sold under the trade name Nemacur®) from BCS AG. The acquired assets include registrations and data rights, rights relating to manufacturing and formulation know-how, inventories and the trademark Nemacur. Nemacur is a leading soil insecticide that is registered in 30 countries for use primarily as a nematicide with additional efficacy against above ground sucking insects. On October 14, 2010—AMVAC and Kanesho Soil Treatment completed agreements with Certis-USA regarding the crop protection product Basamid® (dazomet) under which AMVAC will become the exclusive distributor and registration holder for this granular soil fumigant in the United States. Certis-USA, will continue to market Basamid into non-food crop applications under a distribution agreement with Amvac. Basamid complements the strong market position of AMVAC’s Vapam® & K-Pam® soil fumigant brands. The Company will be developing the use of Basamid for high-valued crop segments such as strawberries, tomatoes, lettuce & spinach and will be responsible for the re-registration of dazomet in the United States. On July 21, 2010—AMVAC completed the acquisition of the U.S. cotton defoliant product tribufos (sold under the trade name Def®) from BCS AG. The acquired assets include registrations and data rights, rights relating to manufacturing and formulation know-how, inventories, and the trademark Def. Def complements AMVAC’s existing cotton defoliant product Folex®, which it has marketed since 2002. Both are fast and effective cotton defoliants that facilitate the removal of leaves surrounding the cotton boll and in combination with other products function as a harvest aid. On May 16, 2008, AMVAC completed the acquisition of the phorate (sold by the Company under the Trade name Thimet) insecticide product line from Aceto Agricultural Chemicals Corporation (“Aceto AG”). Thimet is used on agricultural crops, mainly potatoes, corn, cotton, rice, sugarcane and peanuts, to protect against chewing and piercing-sucking insects. Purchased assets included registrations, data, know-how and certain inventories. The acquisition was made in connection with the settlement of litigation between AMVAC and Aceto AG. On March 7, 2008, AMVAC acquired from Bayer Cropscience LP (“BCS LP”) certain assets at BCS LP’s facility located in Marsing, ID, (the “Marsing Facility”). The Marsing Facility consists of approximately 17 acres of improved real property, 15 of which are now owned by AMVAC and two of which are leased by AMVAC from the City of Marsing for a term of 25 years. The acquired assets, primarily include real property, buildings and manufacturing equipment. In connection with the acquisition, AMVAC and BCS LP agreed to enter into a master processor agreement under which AMVAC is providing certain tolling services to BCS LP for a period of four years. On January 16, 2008, AMVAC, acquired from Valent U.S.A. Corporation the Orthene® insecticide product line. Orthene is used on agricultural crops, including beans, brussels sprouts, cauliflower, celery, cotton, cranberries, head lettuce, mint and ornamental and forests. AMVAC purchased the proprietary formulation information, registration rights, marketing materials, certain intellectual property rights and existing inventories of the agricultural and professional product lines. Seasonality The agricultural chemical industry in general is cyclical in nature. The demand for AMVAC’s products tends to be seasonal. Seasonal usage, however, does not necessarily follow calendar dates, but more closely follows varying growing seasonal patterns, weather conditions and weather related pressure from pests, and customer marketing programs and requirements. Backlog AMVAC does not believe that backlog is a significant factor in its business. AMVAC primarily sells its products on the basis of purchase orders, although it has entered into requirements contracts with certain customers. Customers Tenkoz; Crop Production Services, Inc (formerly United Agri Products, Western Farm Services and Crop Production Services); and Winfield accounted for 26%, 18%, and 11%, respectively of the Company’s sales in 2011; 23%, 19% and 11% in 2010; and 21%, 20%, and 9% in 2009. 2 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) Competition AMVAC faces competition from many domestic and foreign manufacturers in its marketplaces. Competition in AMVAC’s marketplace is based primarily on quality, efficacy, price, safety and ease of application. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and technical resources than AMVAC. AMVAC’s ability to compete depends on its ability to develop additional applications for its current products and expand its product lines and customer base. AMVAC competes principally on the basis of the quality and efficacy of its products, its price and the technical service and support given to its customers. Generally, the treatment against pests of any kind is broad in scope, there being more than one way or one product for treatment, eradication, or suppression. In most cases, AMVAC has attempted to position itself in smaller niche markets which are no longer addressed by larger companies. Intellectual Property AMVAC’s proprietary product formulations are protected, to the extent possible, as trade secrets and, to a lesser extent, by patents. Further, AMVAC’s trademarks bring value to its products in both domestic and foreign markets. Although AMVAC considers that, in the aggregate, its trademarks, licenses, and patents constitute a valuable asset, it does not regard its business as being materially dependent upon any single trademark, license, or patent. EPA Registrations AMVAC’s products also receive protection afforded by the effect of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”) legislation. The legislation makes it unlawful to sell any pesticide in the United States unless such pesticide has first been registered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) as well as under similar state laws. Substantially all of AMVAC’s products are subject to USEPA registration and re-registration requirements and are conditionally registered in accordance with FIFRA. This registration by USEPA is based, among other things, on data demonstrating that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when it is used according to approved label directions. All states where any of AMVAC’s products are used require a registration by that specific state before it can be marketed or used in that state. State registrations are renewed annually, as appropriate. The USEPA and state agencies have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific data requirements be performed on registered products sold by AMVAC. AMVAC, on its own behalf and in joint efforts with other registrants, has furnished, and is currently furnishing, certain required data relative to specific products. Under FIFRA, the federal government requires registrants to submit a wide range of scientific data to support U.S. registrations. This requirement results in operating expenses in such areas as testing and the production of new products. AMVAC expensed $6,555, $5,876, and $4,876 during 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively, related to gathering this information. See also PART II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on form 10-K for discussions pertaining to research and development expenses. Raw Materials AMVAC utilizes numerous companies as well as internal sources to supply the various raw materials and components used in manufacturing its products. Many of these materials are readily available from domestic sources. In those instances where there is a single source of supply or where the source is not domestic, AMVAC seeks to secure its supply by either long-term (multi-year) arrangements or purchasing on long lead times from its suppliers. AMVAC believes that it is considered to be a valued customer to such sole-source suppliers. Environmental During 2011, AMVAC continued activities to address environmental issues associated with its facility (the “Facility”) in Commerce, CA. An outline of the history of those activities follows. In 1995, the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (“DTSC”) conducted a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) Facility Assessment (“RFA”) of those facilities having hazardous waste storage permits. During that same year, ten underground storage tanks located at the Facility were closed. In March 1997, the RFA culminated in DTSC accepting the Facility into its Expedited Remedial Action Program. Under this program, the Facility was required to prepare and implement an environmental investigation plan. Depending on the findings of the investigation, the Facility might also be required to develop and implement remedial measures to address any historical environmental impairment. 3 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) This activity then took two paths: the RCRA permit closure and the larger site characterization. With respect to the permit closure, in 1998, AMVAC began the formal process to close its hazardous waste permit at the Facility (which had allowed AMVAC to store hazardous waste longer than 90 days) as required by federal regulations. Formal regulatory closure actions began in 2005 and were completed in 2008, as evidenced by DTSC’s October 1, 2008 acknowledgement of AMVAC’s Closure Certification Report. With respect to the site characterization, soil and groundwater characterization activities began in December 2002 in accordance with the Site Investigation Plan that was approved by the DTSC. Additional activities were conducted from 2003 to 2011 with oversight provided by the DTSC. Additional analysis of groundwater and soil are being conducted in response to federally-mandated initiatives of similarly affected sites. Area-wide groundwater studies of perchlorate (typically associated with rocket fuel, explosives and fertilizer) require the Facility and neighboring sites to monitor existing wells for perchlorate in groundwater. Risk Assessment activities have commenced and are likely to conclude over the next year under the oversight of the DTSC, after which further investigation may be required, and the company will prepare and submit a remedial action plan. Until the remedial action plan has been submitted and comments are received from DTSC, it is uncertain whether the cost associated with further investigation and potential remediation activities will have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. Thus, the Company is unable to determine whether remediation is reasonably probable, nor can the cost of remediation be reasonably estimated (the scope can vary depending upon the risk assessment and many other factors). Accordingly, the Company has not set up a loss contingency with respect thereto. AMVAC is subject to numerous federal and state laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee health and safety at the Commerce, CA; Marsing, ID; Hannibal, MO and Axis, AL facilities. AMVAC continually adapts its manufacturing process to the environmental control standards of the various regulatory agencies. The USEPA and other federal and state agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that could have an impact on AMVAC’s operations. AMVAC expends substantial funds to minimize the discharge of materials in the environment and to comply with the governmental regulations relating to protection of the environment. Wherever feasible, AMVAC recovers raw materials and increases product yield in order to partially offset increasing pollution abatement costs. The Company is committed to a long-term environmental protection program that reduces emissions of hazardous materials into the environment, as well as to the remediation of identified existing environmental concerns. As part of its continuing environmental program, the Company has been able to comply with such proceedings and orders without any materially adverse effect on its business. Employees As of December 31, 2011, the Company employed approximately 390 employees. AMVAC, on an ongoing basis, due to the seasonality of its business, uses temporary contract personnel to perform certain duties primarily related to packaging of its products. None of the Company’s employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. The Company believes it maintains positive relations with its employees. 4 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) Domestic operations AMVAC is a California corporation incorporated in 1971. It is the Company’s main operating subsidiary. It owns and/or operates the Company’s domestic manufacturing facilities and is also the parent company for all its foreign corporations. AMVAC manufactures, formulates, packages and sells our products predominantly in the USA and, in 2011, in 41 other countries. AMVAC is a wholly owned subsidiary of AVD. GemChem is a California corporation incorporated in 1991 and purchased by the Company in 1994. GemChem is a national chemical distributor. GemChem, in addition to purchasing key raw materials for the Company, also sells into the pharmaceutical, cosmetic and nutritional markets. Prior to the acquisition, GemChem acted in the capacity as the domestic sales force for the Company (from September 1991). GemChem is a wholly owned subsidiary of AVD. DAVIE currently owns real estate for corporate use only. See also PART I, Item 2 of this Annual Report. DAVIE is a wholly owned subsidiary of AVD. EMI is an environmental consulting firm. EMI is a wholly owned subsidiary of AVD. Export Operations The Company opened an office in 2008 in Costa Rica to conduct business in the country. The office is operated by AMVAC CR and markets chemical products for agricultural and commercial uses. The Company opened an office in Basel, Switzerland in 2006. The office is operated by AMVAC S. The Company formed the new subsidiary to expand its resources dedicated to non-U.S. business development opportunities. The Company also formed a Brazilian entity in 2006 operating as AMVAC B. It functions primarily to maintain the company’s registrations in that country. The Company opened an office in 1998 in Mexico to conduct business primarily in Mexico. The office is operated by AMVAC M and markets chemical products for agricultural and commercial uses. The Company opened an office in 1994 in the United Kingdom. The office is operated by AMVAC UK and manages product registrations for AMVAC’s product lines throughout Europe. The Company classifies as export sales all products bearing foreign labeling shipped to a foreign destination. 2011 2010 2009 Export Sales $ 63,454 $ 39,049 $ 37,964 Percentage of Net Sales 20.8 % 17.2 % 18.4 % 5 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) Risk Management The Company continually evaluates insurance levels for product liability, property damage and other potential areas of risk. Management believes its facilities and equipment are adequately insured against loss from usual business risks. The Company has purchased claims made products liability insurance. In addition, the Company regularly monitors matters, whether insurable or not, that could pose material risk to its operations. The Company’s Board of Directors has formally assumed responsibility for risk oversight; in 2010, the Board formed a Risk Committee, which, at present, consists of five members of the Board of Directors. The committee meets regularly with senior management to evaluate the company’s risk profile, to identify mitigation measures and to ensure that the company is prudently managing these risks. In the spirit of helping the Risk Committee oversee risk management, senior management has appointed a risk manager and a team of executives to serve as a management risk committee; this group performs analysis with the benefit of operational knowledge. Over the course of 2011, the company continued to implement an enterprise risk management program, which extends to all areas of potential risk and is intended to serve as a permanent feature in the company’s operation. Available Information The Company makes available free of charge (through its website, www.american-vanguard.com), its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Such reports are also available free of charge on the SEC website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on the Company’s website are the Company’s Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charters, the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Company’s Code of Conduct and Ethics, the Company’s Employee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters and our policy on Stockholder Nomination and Communication. The Company’s Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 6 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The regulatory climate has grown increasingly challenging to the Company’s interests both domestically and internationally. Under the current U.S. Administration, various agencies within the Federal government have begun to exercise increased scrutiny in permitting continued uses (or the expansion of such uses) of older chemistries, including many of the Company’s products and, in some cases, have initiated or entertained challenges to these uses. At the regulatory level, the principles of sound science to which the Company has always subscribed have been adulterated, in some cases, by political considerations. The challenge of the regulatory climate is even more pronounced in certain other geographical regions, most especially the European Union and Brazil, where the Company faces resistance toward the continued use of certain of its products. There is no guarantee that this climate will change in the near term. Nor is there any guarantee that the Company will be able to maintain or expand the uses of many of its products in the face of these regulatory challenges. The Company is dependent upon certain sole source suppliers for certain of its active ingredients. In conjunction with the purchase and/or licensing of various product lines (including Folex, Mocap, Nemacur, Impact and Force), the Company has been required by seller/licensor to enter into multi-year supply arrangements under which such counterparties are the sole source of either active ingredients or formulated end-use product. In some cases, the manufacturer has been unable to deliver the volume of product necessary to meet the Company’s demand. Further, certain manufacturers have expressed a desire to discontinue production of such goods earlier than anticipated. In one case, the manufacturer has entered the market as a competitor. There is no guarantee that these sole source manufacturers will be willing or able to supply these products to the Company reliably, continuously and at the levels anticipated by the Company or required by the market. In addition, while the Company is making efforts to transfer production of certain of these products to its own facilities, there is no guarantee that these initiatives will be successful or that they will be completed in a timely fashion so as to permit the Company to meet market demand in the short to mid-term. If these sources prove to be unreliable and the Company is not able to supplant or otherwise second source these manufacturers, it is possible that the Company will not realize its projected sales, which, in turn, could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Company may be subject to environmental liabilities. While the Company expends substantial funds to minimize the discharge of materials into the environment and to comply with governmental regulations relating to protection of the environment and its workforce, federal and state authorities may nevertheless seek fines and penalties for violation of the various laws and governmental regulations. Further, these various governmental agencies could, among other things, impose liability on the Company for cleaning up the damage resulting from release of pesticides and other agents into the environment. In addition, while the Company continually adapts its manufacturing process to the environmental control standards of regulatory authorities, it cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous or regulated materials. In the event of such contamination or injury, the Company may be held liable for significant damages or fines. In the event that such damages or fines are assessed, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial and operating results. Use of the Company’s products is subject to continuing challenges from activist groups. Use of agrochemical products, including the Company’s products is regularly challenged by activist groups in many jurisdictions under a multitude of federal and state statutes, including FIFRA, the Food Quality Protection Act, Endangered Species Act, and the Clean Water Act, to name a few. These challenges typically take the form of lawsuits or administrative proceedings against the USEPA and/or other federal or state agencies, the filing of amicus briefs in pending actions, the introduction of legislation that is inimical to the Company’s interests, and/or adverse comments made in response to public comment invited by USEPA in the course of registration, re-registration or label expansion. It is possible that one or more of these challenges could succeed, resulting in a material adverse effect upon one or more of our products. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by cyclical and seasonal effects. Demand for the Company’s products tends to be seasonal. Seasonal usage follows varying agricultural seasonal patterns, weather conditions and weather related pressure from pests, and customer marketing programs and requirements. Weather patterns can have an impact on the Company’s operations. The end user of its products may, because of weather patterns, delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting season, which may result in a reduction of the use of some products and therefore may reduce our revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that the Company will adequately address any adverse seasonal effects. 7 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) The Company faces competition in certain markets from manufacturers of genetically modified seeds. The Company faces competition from larger chemical companies that market genetically modified (“GMO”) seeds in certain of the crop protection sectors in which the Company competes, particularly that of corn. Many growers that have chosen to use GMO seeds have reduced their use of pesticides sold by the Company. Further, the federally mandated “refuge acre” requirement for corn (which, in the name of preventing pest resistance, required growers using GMO seeds to set aside a percentage of their planting acres for non-GMO seed), has been sharply reduced. There is no guarantee that the Company will maintain its market share or pricing levels in sectors that are subject to competition from GMO seed marketers or that federal mandates to set aside acreage for non-GMO seed will continue. The Company faces competition from generic competitors that source product from countries having lower cost structures. The Company continues to face competition from competitors that enter the market through making offers to pay data compensation and subsequently sourcing material from countries having low cost structures (typically India and China). These competitors typically operate at thinner gross margins and, with low costs of goods, drive pricing and profitability of subject product lines downward. Further, such competitors typically spend little on product stewardship and employ few personnel within the United States. In effect, they tend to commoditize all products which they distribute; that is, they operate by offering the lowest price goods. There is no guarantee that the Company will maintain market share over generic competitors or that such competitors will not offer generic versions of the Company’s products in the future. The Company’s key customers typically carry competing product lines and may be influenced by the Company’s larger competitors. A significant portion of the Company’s products are sold to national distributors who also carry product lines of competitors that are much larger than the Company. Typically, revenues from the sales of these competing product lines and related program incentives constitute a greater part of our distributors’ income than do revenues from sales and program incentives arising from the Company’s product lines. Further, these distributors are often under pressure to market competing product lines in favor of the Company’s. In light of these facts, there is no assurance that such customers will market or continue to market our products aggressively or successfully or that the Company will be able to influence such customers to purchase our products in favor of those of our competitors. To the extent that capacity utilization is not fully realized at its manufacturing facilities, the Company may experience lower profitability. The Company has pursued a business strategy of acquiring manufacturing facilities at a steep discount to their replacement value. These acquisitions have enabled the Company to be more independent of overseas manufacturers than some of our competitors. While the Company endeavors continuously to maximize utilization of these several facilities, our success in these endeavors is dependent upon many factors beyond our control, including fluctuating market conditions, product life cycles, weather conditions, availability of raw materials and regulatory constraints, among other things. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maximize its utilization of capacity at its manufacturing facilities. To the extent that the Company experiences excess manufacturing capacity, it may experience lower profitability. Reduced availability and higher prices of raw materials may reduce the Company’s profitability and could threaten the viability of some of its products. In the recent past, there has been a material reduction in the number of suppliers of certain important raw materials used by the Company in many of its products. Certain of these raw materials are available solely from sources overseas or from single sources domestically. In the recent past, the price of these raw materials has fluctuated sharply. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to source some or all of these materials indefinitely or that it will be able to do so at a level of cost that will enable it to maintain its profit margin on its products. 8 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) Foreign currency and interest rate risk and the use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. The Company engages in global business transactions. Where possible, the Company does business in its functional currency. However, there are certain situations in which the Company is unable to transact in its functional currency and engages in agreements that require settlement in a different currency. The Company may enter into derivative instruments to manage foreign currency risk of these agreements. That is to say, establish a forward exchange rate at the point of placing a purchase order and thereby insure the Company against movement in exchange rate. In addition, the Company may use interest rate derivates to manage interest rate expense generated by variable rate debt. The Company has in place one fixed interest rate swap with the objective of reducing the Company’s exposure to movements in the LIBOR rate over time. This is required as a condition of the Company’s Senior Credit Facilities agreement. Dependence on the Company’s banking relationship. The Company’s main bank is Bank of the West, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the French bank, BNP Paribas. Bank of the West has been the Company’s primary bank for more than 30 years. Bank of the West is the syndication manager for the Company’s loans and acts as the counterparty on the Company’s derivative transactions. The Company reviews the creditworthiness of its banks on a quarterly basis via credit agencies and also has face-to-face meetings with senior management of the banks. Management believes that the Company has an excellent working relationship with Bank of the West and the other financial institutions in the Company’s lender group. In light of the uncertainties in global financial markets, there is no guarantee, however, that the Company’s lenders will be either willing or able to continue lending to the Company at such rates and in such amounts as may be necessary to meet the Company’s working capital needs. The distribution and sale of the Company’s products are subject to prior governmental approvals and thereafter ongoing governmental regulation. The Company’s products are subject to laws administered by federal, state and foreign governments, including regulations requiring registration, approval and labeling of its products. The labeling requirements restrict the use of and type of application for our products. More stringent restrictions could make our products less available, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Substantially all of the Company’s products are subject to the USEPA registration and re-registration requirements, and are conditionally registered in accordance with FIFRA. Such registration requirements are based, among other things, on data demonstrating that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when used according to approved label directions. All states where any of the Company’s products are used also require registration before they can be marketed or used in that state. Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific data requirements be performed on the Company’s products. The Company, on its behalf and also in joint efforts with other registrants, have and are currently furnishing certain required data relative to its products. There can be no assurance, however, that the USEPA will not request certain tests or studies be repeated or that more stringent legislation or requirements will not be imposed in the future. The Company can provide no assurance that any testing approvals or registrations will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that its resources will be adequate to meet the costs of regulatory compliance. The manufacturing of the Company’s products is subject to governmental regulations. The Company currently owns and operates three manufacturing facilities—in Los Angeles, California; Axis, Alabama; and Marsing, Idaho—and owns and has manufacturing services provided in a fourth facility in Hannibal, Missouri (the “Facilities”). The Facilities operate under the terms and conditions imposed by required licenses and permits by state and local authorities. The manufacturing of key ingredients for certain of the Company’s products occurs at the Facilities. An inability to renew or maintain a license or permit or a significant increase in the fees for such licenses or permits could impede the Company’s access to key ingredients and increase the cost of production, which, in turn, would materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to provide its products in a timely and affordable manner. The Company is dependent on a limited number of customers, which makes us vulnerable to the continued relationship with and financial health of those customers. In 2011, three customers accounted for 55% of the Company’s sales. The Company’s future prospects will depend on the continued business of such customers and on our continued status as a qualified supplier to such customers. The Company cannot guarantee that our current significant customers will continue to buy products from us at current levels. The loss of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 9 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 