Risk Factors, of this Annual Report.) ITEM 1 BUSINESS American Vanguard Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in January 1969 and operates as a holding company. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to the “Company”, or the “Registrant” in this Annual Report refer to American Vanguard Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company conducts its business through its subsidiaries, AMVAC Chemical Corporation (“AMVAC”), GemChem, Inc. (“GemChem”), 2110 Davie Corporation (“DAVIE”), AMVAC Chemical UK Ltd. (“Chemical UK”), Quimica Amvac de Mexico S.A. de C.V. (“Quimica Amvac”), AMVAC Switzerland GmbH, AMVAC do Brasil Representácoes Ltda, Environmental Mediation, Inc, and AMVAC de Costa Rica Sociedad Anonima. Based on similar economic and operational characteristics, the Company’s business is aggregated into one reportable segment. Refer to Part I, Item 7 for selective enterprise information. AMVAC AMVAC is a California corporation that traces its history from 1945. AMVAC is a specialty chemical manufacturer that develops and markets products for agricultural and commercial uses. It manufactures and formulates chemicals for crops, human and animal health protection. These chemicals, which include insecticides, fungicides, herbicides, molluscicides, growth regulators, and soil fumigants, are marketed in liquid, powder, and granular forms. Years ago AMVAC considered itself a distributor-formulator, but now AMVAC primarily manufactures, distributes, and formulates its own proprietary products or custom manufactures or formulates for others. AMVAC has historically expanded its business through both the acquisition of older chemistries (which it has revived in the marketplace) and the development and commercialization of new compounds through licensing arrangements. Below is a description of the Company’s acquisition/licensing activity over the past five years. On May 16, 2008, AMVAC completed the acquisition of the Thimet insecticide product line from Aceto Agricultural Chemicals Corporation (“Aceto Ag”). Thimet is used on agricultural crops, mainly potatoes, corn, cotton, rice, sugarcane and peanuts, to protect against chewing and piercing-sucking insects. Purchased assets included registrations, data, know-how and certain inventories. The acquisition was made in connection with the settlement of litigation between AMVAC and Aceto Ag. On March 7, 2008, AMVAC acquired from Bayer Cropscience LP (“BCS”) certain assets at BCS’s facility located in Marsing, ID, (the “Marsing Facility”). The Marsing Facility consists of approximately 17 acres of improved real property, 15 of which are now owned by AMVAC and two of which are leased by AMVAC from the City of Marsing for a term of 25 years. The acquired assets, primarily include real property, buildings and manufacturing equipment. In connection with the acquisition, AMVAC and BCS agreed to enter into a master processor agreement under which AMVAC is providing certain tolling services to BCS for a period of four years. 1 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES On January 16, 2008, AMVAC, pursuant to the provisions of a definitive Sale and Purchase Agreement (the “Agreement”), acquired from Valent U.S.A. Corporation the Orthene® insecticide product line. Orthene is used on agricultural crops, including beans, brussels sprouts, cauliflower, celery, cotton, cranberries, head lettuce, mint and others and ornamental and forests. Under the Agreement, AMVAC purchased the proprietary formulation information, registration rights, marketing materials, certain intellectual property rights and existing inventories of the agricultural and professional product lines. On December 28, 2007, AMVAC, pursuant to the provisions of a definitive Sale and Purchase Agreement (the “Agreement”) between AMVAC and BASF Aktiengesellschaft (“BASF”), through which AMVAC purchased the global Counter product line from BASF , acquired certain manufacturing assets relating to the production of Counter® and Thimet® and located at BASF’s multi-plant facility situated in Hannibal, Missouri. This acquisition ensured the continuing supply of these high-quality insecticide products for use in a wide variety of agricultural applications and significantly increased the Company’s organophosphate manufacturing capacity. On December 17, 2007, AMVAC acquired the pentachloronitrobenzine (“PCNB”) fungicide product line from the Crop Protection division of Chemtura Corporation. Included in the purchase were the brands Turfcide® and Terraclor®, highly effective fungicides that control a wide range of diseases in turf and ornamental applications and certain agricultural crops and are a component of seed treatment dressings. These products are registered in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Australia, Turkey, South Africa and a number of other countries. On February 16, 2007 AMVAC acquired intellectual property rights to the EZ Load® closed delivery system from Loveland Products, Inc. In connection with the transaction, AMVAC obtained the patent registrations and trademarks to EZ Load both domestically and internationally. Through this acquisition, AMVAC has reaffirmed its commitment to product stewardship by offering a third closed delivery system (now SmartBox®, Lock ‘N Load® and EZ Load) to users of its products. In December 2006, AMVAC acquired the product line permethrin (a synthetic pyrethroid insecticide) from Syngenta Crop Protection, Inc. In connection with the transaction, AMVAC acquired both crop and non-crop uses of the product line in the U.S., Mexico and Canada. Acquired assets included registration rights, manufacturing and formulation know-how, inventories, customer lists and the trademarks Ambush® and Prelude® in the aforementioned territories. In November 2006, AMVAC acquired the global Counter insecticide product line and the Lock ‘N Load closed delivery system from BASF. The product line consisted of the active ingredient terbufos, the trademarks Counter and Lock ‘N Load, the manufacturing and formulation know-how, registration rights, intellectual property rights and inventories. In December 2005, AMVAC acquired the cereal herbicide product line, difenzoquat from BASF. The product line consisted of the active ingredient difenzoquat, the trademark Avenge™, the manufacturing and formulation know-how, and registration rights and intellectual property rights in the United States and Canada. Avenge is a post-emergent herbicide primarily used to control wild oats in barley and wheat. Avenge has a unique mode of action: it can be tank mixed with many popular broad leaf herbicides to provide broadleaf weed control as well as for effectively managing herbicide resistance problems in wild oats. In November 2005, AMVAC acquired the global phorate insecticide product line from BASF. The product line consisted of the active ingredient Phorate, the trademarks Thimet, Granutox® and Geomet®, the manufacturing and formulation know-how, registration rights, intellectual property rights and inventories as well as an exclusive license to use BASF’s patented, closed delivery system, Lock ‘N Load, in the United States, 2 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Canada and Australia for Thimet. Thimet is registered in more than fifteen countries, with the main markets in Asia Pacific and the Americas. It is used on agricultural crops, mainly potatoes, corn, cotton, rice and sugarcane, to protect against chewing and piercing-sucking insects. In March 2005, AMVAC entered into an exclusive multi-year agreement with BASF to develop, register and commercialize topramezone, a new herbicide for post-emergent use in corn in North America. Under the terms of a licensing and supply agreement BASF supplies the product to AMVAC. In August 2005, AMVAC received a registration from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for Impact® (active ingredient: topramezone), a new herbicide for the use in field corn, seed corn, sweet corn and popcorn. Seasonality The agricultural chemical industry in general is cyclical in nature. The demand for AMVAC’s products tends to be slightly seasonal. Seasonal usage, however, does not necessarily follow calendar dates, but more closely follows varying growing seasonal patterns, weather conditions and weather related pressure from pests, and customer marketing programs and requirements. Backlog AMVAC does not believe that backlog is a significant factor in its business. AMVAC primarily sells its products on the basis of purchase orders, although it has entered into requirements contracts with certain customers. Customers Tenkoz; Crop Production Services, Inc (formerly United Agri Products, Western Farm Services and Crop Production Services); and Winfield Solution LLC (formerly Agriliance) accounted for 21%,20% and 10%, respectively of the Company’s sales in 2009; 18%, 19% and 12% in 2008; and 26%, 22% and 11% in 2007. Competition AMVAC faces competition from many domestic and foreign manufacturers in its marketplaces. Competition in AMVAC’s marketplace is based primarily on efficacy, price, safety and ease of application. Many of such competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and technical resources than AMVAC. AMVAC’s ability to compete depends on its ability to develop additional applications for its current products and expand its product lines and customer base. AMVAC competes principally on the basis of the quality of its products, its price and the technical service and support given to its customers. Generally, the treatment against pests of any kind is broad in scope, there being more than one way or one product for treatment, eradication, or suppression. In most cases, AMVAC has attempted to position itself in smaller niche markets which are no longer of strong focus to larger companies. Intellectual Property AMVAC’s proprietary product formulations are protected, to the extent possible, as trade secrets and, to a lesser extent, by patents. Further, AMVAC’s trademarks bring value to its products in both domestic and foreign markets. Although AMVAC considers that, in the aggregate, its trademarks, licenses, and patents constitute a valuable asset, it does not regard its business as being materially dependent upon any single trademark, license, or patent. 3 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES EPA Registrations AMVAC’s products also receive protection afforded by the effect of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”) legislation that makes it unlawful to sell any pesticide in the United States unless such pesticide has first been registered by the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) as well as under similar state laws. Substantially all of AMVAC’s products are subject to EPA registration and re-registration requirements and are conditionally registered in accordance with FIFRA. This registration by EPA is based, among other things, on data demonstrating that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when it is used according to approved label directions. All states where any of AMVAC’s products are used require a registration by that specific state before it can be marketed or used in that state. State registrations are renewed annually, as appropriate. The EPA and state agencies have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific data requirements be performed on registered products sold by AMVAC. AMVAC, on its own behalf and in joint efforts with other registrants, has furnished, and is currently furnishing, certain required data relative to specific products. Under FIFRA, the federal government requires registrants to submit a wide range of scientific data to support U.S. registrations. This requirement results in operating expenses in such areas as testing and the production of new products. AMVAC expensed $4,714, $3,410, and $2,013 during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to gathering this information. Because scientific analyses are constantly improving, it cannot be determined with certainty whether or not new or additional tests may be required by the regulatory authorities. Additionally, while FIFRA Good Laboratory Practice standards specify the minimum practices and procedures which must be followed in order to ensure the quality and integrity of data related to these tests submitted to the EPA, there can be no assurance the EPA will not request certain tests/studies be repeated. AMVAC expenses these costs on an as incurred basis. See also PART II, Item 7 of this Annual Report for discussions pertaining to research and development expenses. Raw Materials AMVAC utilizes numerous firms as well as internal sources to supply the various raw materials and components used by AMVAC in manufacturing its products. Many of these materials are readily available from domestic sources. In those instances where there is a single source of supply or where the source is not domestic, AMVAC seeks to secure its supply by either long-term arrangements or advance purchases from its suppliers. AMVAC believes that it is considered to be a valued customer to such sole-source suppliers. Environmental During 2009, AMVAC continued activities to address environmental issues associated with its facility (the “Facility”) in Commerce, CA. An outline of the history of those activities follows. In 1995, the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (“DTSC”) conducted a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) Facility Assessment (“RFA”) of those facilities having hazardous waste storage permits. During that same year, ten underground storage tanks located at the Facility were closed. In March 1997, the RFA culminated in DTSC accepting the Facility into its Expedited Remedial Action Program. Under this program, the Facility was required to prepare and implement an environmental investigation plan. Depending on the findings of the investigation, the Facility might also be required to develop and implement remedial measures to address any historical environmental impairment. 4 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES This activity then took two paths: the RCRA permit closure and the larger site characterization. With respect to the permit closure, in 1998, AMVAC began the formal process to close its hazardous waste permit at the Facility (which had allowed AMVAC to store hazardous waste longer than 90 days) as required by federal regulations. Formal regulatory closure actions began in 2005 and were completed in 2008, as evidenced by DTSC’s October 1, 2008 acknowledgement of AMVAC’s Closure Certification Report. With respect to the site characterization, soil and groundwater characterization activities began in December 2002 in accordance with the Site Investigation Plan that was approved by the DTSC. Additional activities were conducted from 2003 to 2009 with oversight provided by the DTSC. Risk Assessment activities have commenced and are likely to continue over the next year under the oversight of the DTSC. Following such risk assessment activities, further investigation and/or potential remediation activities may be initiated in 2010 or 2011. At this stage, the extent of further investigation and potential remediation activities is uncertain. Further, it is uncertain whether the cost associated with such investigation and potential remediation activities will have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. Because the risk assessment has yet to be completed, the Company is unable to determine whether remediation is reasonably probable, nor can the cost of remediation be reasonably estimable (the scope can vary depending upon the risk assessment and many other factors). Accordingly, the Company has not set up a loss contingency with respect thereto. AMVAC is subject to numerous federal and state laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee health and safety at the Commerce, CA; Marsing, ID; Hannibal, MO and Axis, AL facilities. AMVAC continually adapts its manufacturing process to the environmental control standards of the various regulatory agencies. The U.S. EPA and other federal and state agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that could have an impact on AMVAC’s operations. AMVAC expends substantial funds to minimize the discharge of materials in the environment and to comply with the governmental regulations relating to protection of the environment. Wherever feasible, AMVAC recovers raw materials and increases product yield in order to partially offset increasing pollution abatement costs. The Company is committed to a long-term environmental protection program that reduces emissions of hazardous materials into the environment, as well as to the remediation of identified existing environmental concerns. As part of its continuing environmental program, except as disclosed in PART I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Annual Report, the Company has been able to comply with such proceedings and orders without any materially adverse effect on its business. Employees As of December 31, 2009, the Company employed approximately 330 employees. AMVAC, on an ongoing basis, due to the seasonality of its business, uses temporary contract personnel to perform certain duties primarily related to packaging of its products. The Company believes it is cost beneficial to employ temporary contract personnel. None of the Company’s employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. The Company believes it maintains positive relations with its employees. Export Operations The Company opened an office in 2008 in Costa Rica to conduct business in the country. The office operates under the name AMVAC de Costa Rica Sociedad Anonima and markets chemical products for agricultural and commercial uses. 5 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES The Company opened an office in Basel, Switzerland in 2006. The office operates under the name AMVAC Switzerland GmbH. The Company formed the new subsidiary to expand its resources dedicated to non-U.S. opportunities, primarily in the European Union. The Company also formed a Brazilian entity in 2006 operating under the name “AMVAC do Brasil Representácoes Ltda”—it functions primarily to import technical grade agricultural chemicals and to sell them to local formulators and distributors. The Company opened an office in 1998 in Mexico to conduct business in Mexico and related areas. The office operates under the name Quimica AMVAC de Mexico S.A. de C.V. and markets chemical products for agricultural and commercial uses. The Company opened an office in 1994 in the United Kingdom to conduct business in the European chemical market. The office, operating under the name AMVAC Chemical UK Ltd., focuses on developing product registration and distributor networks for AMVAC’s product lines throughout Europe. The office is located in Surrey, England, to the southwest of London. The operating results of this operation were not material to the Company’s total operating results for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The Company classifies as export sales all products bearing foreign labeling shipped to a foreign destination. 2009 2008 2007 Export Sales $ 37,964 $ 41,250 $ 32,932 Percentage of Net Sales 18.1 % 17.4 % 15.2 % Risk Management The Company continually evaluates insurance levels for product liability, property damage and other potential areas of risk. Management believes its facilities and equipment are adequately insured against loss from usual business risks. The Company has purchased claims made products liability insurance. In addition, the Company regularly monitors matters, whether insurable or not, that could pose material risk to its operations. In 2008, working in conjunction with Marsh Company and Andersen Consulting, the Company conducted a formal risk assessment of its operations and enterprise. Periodically, the Company re-examines risks that have been identified, takes measures taken to mitigate those risks, and, in light of changing business, economic and other circumstances, identifies new risks. Further, the Company’s Board of Directors has formally assumed responsibility for risk oversight and has appointed a subgroup of the Board (namely, the heads of each of the Board’s Committee’s) to work with the Company’s risk manager in analyzing, reporting upon, and addressing the material financial, operational and reputational risks faced by the Company. The Company has attempted to identify some of the more salient risks in the risk factors contained within this Form 10-K. GEMCHEM, INC. GemChem is a California corporation incorporated in 1991 and purchased by the Company in 1994. GemChem is a national chemical distributor. GemChem, in addition to purchasing key raw materials for the Company, also sells into the pharmaceutical, cosmetic and nutritional markets. Prior to the acquisition, GemChem acted in the capacity as the domestic sales force for the Company (from September 1991). 2110 DAVIE CORPORATION DAVIE currently owns real estate for corporate use only. See also PART I, Item 2 of this Annual Report. 6 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES ENVIRONMENTAL MEDIATION, INC. EMI is an environmental consulting firm. * * * Available Information The Company makes available free of charge (through its website, www.american-vanguard.com), its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Such reports are also available free of charge on the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on the Company’s website are the Company’s Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charters, the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Company’s Code of Conduct and Ethics, the Company’s Employee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters and our policy on Stockholder Nomination and Communication. The Company’s Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. * * * ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business may be adversely affected by cyclical and seasonal effects. The chemical industry in general is cyclical and demands for its products tend to be seasonal. Seasonal usage follows varying agricultural seasonal patterns, weather conditions and weather related pressure from pests, and customer marketing programs and requirements. Weather patterns can have an impact on the Company’s operations. The end user of some of its products may, because of weather patterns, delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting season, which may result in a reduction of the use of some products and therefore may reduce our revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that the Company will adequately address any adverse seasonal effects. The Company faces competition in certain markets from manufacturers of genetically modified seeds. The Company faces competition from larger chemical companies that market genetically modified (“GMO”) seeds in certain of the crop protection sectors in which the Company competes, particularly that of corn. Many growers that have chosen to use GMO seeds have reduced their use of pesticides sold by the Company. Further, the federally mandated “refuge acre” requirement for corn (which, in the name of preventing pest resistance, required growers using GMO seeds to set aside a percentage of their planting acres for non-GMO seed), has been sharply reduced. There is no guarantee that the Company will maintain its market share or pricing levels in sectors that are subject to competition from GMO seed marketers or that federal mandates to set aside acreage for non-GMO seed will continue. The Company’s key customers typically carry competing product lines and may be influenced by the Company’s larger competitors. A significant portion of the Company’s products are sold to national distributors who also carry product lines of competitors that are much larger than the Company. Typically, revenues from the sales of these competing product lines and related program incentives constitute a greater part of our distributors’ income than 7 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES do revenues from sales and program incentives arising from the Company’s product lines. Further, these distributors are often under pressure to market competing product lines in favor of the Company’s. In light of these facts, there is no assurance that such customers will market or continue to market our products aggressively or successfully or that the Company will be able to influence such customers to purchase our products in favor of those of our competitors. To the extent that capacity utilization is not fully realized at its manufacturing facilities, the Company may experience lower profitability. The Company has pursued a business strategy of acquiring manufacturing facilities at a steep discount to their replacement value. These acquisitions have enabled the Company to be more independent of overseas manufacturers than some of our competitors. While the Company endeavors continuously to maximize utilization of these several facilities, our success in these endeavors is dependent upon many factors beyond our control, including fluctuating market conditions, product life cycles, weather conditions, availability of raw materials and regulatory constraints, among other things. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maximize its utilization of capacity at its manufacturing facilities. To the extent that the Company experiences excess manufacturing capacity, it may experience lower profitability. Reduced availability and higher prices of raw materials may reduce the Company’s profitability and could threaten the viability of some of its products. In the recent past, there has been a material reduction in the number of suppliers of certain important raw materials used by the Company in many of its products. Certain of these raw materials are available solely from sources overseas or from single sources domestically. In the recent past, the price of these raw materials has fluctuated sharply. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to source some or all of these materials indefinitely or that it will be able to do so at a level of cost that will enable it to maintain its profit margin on its products. Foreign currency and interest rate risk and the use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. The Company engages in global business transactions. Where possible, the Company does business in its functional currency. However, there are certain situations in which the Company is unable to transact in its functional currency and engages in agreements that require settlement in a different currency. The Company has in place two fixed interest rate swaps with the objective of reducing the Company’s exposure to movements in the LIBOR rate over time. The hedges are evaluated at the end of each quarter and the effective portions of gains and losses are recorded in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portions are recorded in current earnings. Quarterly variability in factors affecting the Company’s business may mean that an individual quarter’s result may not provide a realistic picture of the Company’s overall performance. Due to elements inherent to the Company’s business, such as differing and unpredictable weather patterns, crop growing cycles, changes in sales mix, ordering patterns that may vary in timing, and promotional programs, measuring the Company’s performance on a quarterly basis, (gross profit margins on a quarterly basis may vary significantly) even when such comparisons are favorable, is not as meaningful an indicator as full-year comparisons. The primary reason is that the use cycles do not necessarily coincide with financial reporting cycles. The Company’s cost structure, the combination of variable revenue streams, and the changing product mixes, result in varying quarterly levels of profitability. 8 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES The potential impact on the Company’s operations during an economic downturn. This country and many others are in the midst of an economic downturn that was touched off by a meltdown of financial markets in late 2008/early 2009. This condition has penetrated the markets in which the Company does business and has reduced demand for these products, as many customers have changed their procurement practice to a “just-in-time” approach and have endeavored to reduce their own inventory levels. This has resulted in a decrease in sales volume and negatively impacted our results of operations. There is no guarantee that economic conditions will stabilize or will not worsen. Further, volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products in a timely manner or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Such volatility and disruption could adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain financing for both working capital needs and acquisitions. Dependence on the Company’s banking relationship. The Company’s main bank is Bank of the West, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the French bank, BNP Paribas. Bank of the West has been the Company’s primary bank for more than 25 years. Bank of the West is the syndication manager for the Company’s loans and acts as the counterparty on the Company’s derivative transactions. The Company reviews the creditworthiness of its banks on a quarterly basis via both credit agencies and face-to-face meetings with senior management of the banks. Management believes that the Company has an excellent working relationship with Bank of the West and the other financial institutions in the Company’s banking syndicate. Nevertheless, in light of both the current strain on the financial markets and the Company’s recent financial performance, there is no guarantee that the Company’s lenders will be either willing or able to continue lending to the Company at such rates and in such amounts as may be necessary to meet the Company’s working capital needs. Use of the Company’s products is subject to continuing challenges from activist groups. Use of the Company’s products is regularly challenged by activist groups in many jurisdictions under a multitude of federal and state statutes, including FIFRA, the Food Quality Protection Act, Endangered Species Act, and the Clean Water Act, to name but a few. These challenges typically take the form of lawsuits or administrative proceedings against the EPA and/or other federal or state agencies, the filing of amicus briefs in pending actions, the introduction of legislation that is inimical to the Company’s interests, and/or adverse comments made in response to public comment invited by EPA in the course of registration, reregistration or label expansion. The Company spends considerable resources anticipating and defending these challenges. While we have had some success in maintaining the continued uses of many of our products in the face of this onslaught, it is possible that one or more of these challenges could succeed, resulting in a material adverse effect upon one or more of our products. The regulatory climate has grown increasingly hostile to the Company’s interests both domestically and internationally. With the election of the current Administration, various agencies within the Federal government have begun to exercise increased scrutiny in permitting continued uses (or the expansion of such uses) of older chemistries, including many of the Company’s products and, in some cases, have initiated or entertained challenges to these uses. At the regulatory level, the principles of sound science to which the Company has always subscribed have been adulterated, in some cases, by political considerations. The hostility of the regulatory climate is even more pronounced in certain other geographical regions, most especially the European Union and Brazil, where the Company faces continued resistance toward the continued use of certain of its products. There is no guarantee that this climate will change in the near term. Nor is there any guarantee that the Company will be able to maintain or expand the uses of many of its products in the face of these regulatory challenges. 9 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES The Company may be unable to maintain compliance with covenants in its senior secured lending facility. Under the terms of its senior lending facility, the Company is required to comply with a number of covenants, some of which relate to financial performance. In light of the Company’s recent financial performance, continued working capital requirements, and challenging market conditions, there is a risk that the Company may be unable to continue to comply with one or more of those covenants. Such noncompliance could require the Company to re-negotiate new terms with its lenders which, in all likelihood, would lead to the incurrence of transaction costs and higher interest rates, Further, there is no guarantee that, in the event of such noncompliance, all of the Company’s lenders would be willing to participate in a new senior secured credit facility or that they would be willing to do so on terms that are favorable to the Company. The distribution and sale of the Company’s products are subject to prior governmental approvals and thereafter ongoing governmental regulation. The Company’s products are subject to laws administered by federal, state and foreign governments, including regulations requiring registration, approval and labeling of its products. The labeling requirements restrict the use of and type of application for our products. More stringent restrictions could make our products less desirable, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Substantially all of the Company’s products are subject to the EPA registration and re-registration requirements, and are conditionally registered in accordance with FIFRA. Such registration requirements are based, among other things, on data demonstrating that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when used according to approved label directions. All states where any of the Company’s products are used also require registration before they can be marketed or used in that state. Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific data requirements be performed on the Company’s products. The Company, on its behalf and in joint efforts with other registrants, have and are currently furnishing certain required data relative to its products. There can be no assurance, however, the EPA will not request certain tests or studies be repeated or that more stringent legislation or requirements will not be imposed in the future. The Company can provide no assurance that any testing approvals or registrations will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that its resources will be adequate to meet the costs of regulatory compliance. The Company’s future success will depend on its ability to acquire new product lines. The Company has grown primarily by a strategy of acquiring mature product lines from larger competitors and expanding sales of these products based on new applications and new users. However, over the course of the last few years, the market for product acquisition has grown increasingly competitive, and the cost of these acquisitions (as a multiple of sales) has risen sharply. Further, its current level of indebtedness would constrain the Company from using borrowed debt to make a material acquisition. There is no guarantee that opportunities to acquire product lines will continue to become available to the Company in the near term, nor is there any guarantee that the Company will be able to finance any such acquisition from traditional sources. The manufacturing of the Company’s products is subject to governmental regulations. The Company currently operates three manufacturing facilities—in Los Angeles, California; Axis, Alabama; and Marsing, Idaho—and owns and has manufacturing services provided in a fourth facility in Hannibal, Missouri (the “Facilities”). The Facilities operate under the terms and conditions imposed by required licenses and permits by state and local authorities. The manufacturing of key ingredients for certain of the Company’s products occurs at the Facilities. An inability to renew or maintain a license or permit or a significant increase in the fees for such licenses or permits could impede the Company’s access to key ingredients and increase the cost of production, which, in turn, would materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to provide its products in a timely and affordable manner. 10 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES The Company may be subject to environmental liabilities. The Company, its facilities, and its products are subject to numerous federal and state laws and governmental regulations concerning hazardous materials, environmental matters and employee health and safety. The Company continually adapts its manufacturing process to the environmental control standards of the various regulatory agencies. The U.S. EPA and other federal and state agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that could have a significant impact on the Company’s operations. The Company expends substantial funds to minimize the discharge of materials into the environment and to comply with governmental regulations relating to protection of the environment and its workforce. Federal and state authorities may seek fines and penalties for violation of the various laws and governmental regulations, and could, among other things, impose liability on the Company for cleaning up the damage resulting from release of pesticides and other agents into the environment. Further, While the Company continually adapts its manufacturing process to the environmental control standards of regulatory authorities, it cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous or regulated materials. In the event of such contamination or injury, the Company may be held liable for significant damages or fines. In the event that such damages or fines are assessed, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial and operating results. The Company’s business may give rise to product liability claims not covered by insurance or indemnity agreements. The manufacturing, marketing, distribution and use of chemical products involve substantial risk of product liability claims. A successful product liability claim that is not insured may require the Company to pay substantial amounts of damages. In the event that such damages are paid, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial and operating results. Adverse results in pending legal and regulatory proceedings could have adverse effects on the Company’s business. The Company is currently, and may from time to time, be involved in legal and regulatory proceedings. The results of litigation and such proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. The Company has and will continue to expend resources and incur expenses in connection with these proceedings. For further discussion on legal risks, please see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” below. The Company relies on intellectual property that it may be unable to protect, or may be found to infringe the rights of others. The Company’s proprietary product formulations are protected, to the extent possible, as trade secrets and, to a lesser extent, by patents and trademarks. Most of the mature products that the Company has acquired that were patented are currently “off patent” because the patents have expired. The Company can provide no assurance that the way it protects its proprietary rights will be adequate or that its competitors will not independently develop similar or competing products. Further, the Company can provide no assurance that it is not infringing other parties’ rights. Any claims could require the Company to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property, or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of asserted infringement. The Company relies on key executives in large part for its success. The Company’s success is highly dependent upon the efforts and abilities of its executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more key executive officers could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s 11 Table of Contents AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES financial and operating results. Further, in light of its recent financial performance, reduced stock price, and reduced compensation for executives, there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to retain or to continue to attract qualified executives. The Company is dependent on a limited number of customers, which makes us vulnerable to the continued relationship with and financial health of those customers. In 2009, three customers accounted for 51% of the Company’s sales. The Company’s future prospects will depend on the continued business of such customers and on our continued status as a qualified supplier to such customers. The Company cannot guarantee that our current significant customers will continue to buy products from us at current levels. The loss of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s stock price may continue to be depressed, and this might make the Company an acquisition target. Over the past year, the market prices for securities of the Company as well as those many companies in the Company’s industry have been depressed This pricing may be due in part to poor market conditions and comparatively weak financial performance. If the current trend in stock price should continue or worsen, the Company may become increasingly attractive as a target for acquisition, whether friendly or hostile. In the event of such acquisition, there is no guarantee that current stockholders will receive consideration in excess of what they might have paid for Company shares. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by terrorist activities. The Company’s business depends on the free flow of products and services through the channels of commerce. Recently, in response to terrorists’ activities and threats aimed at the United States, transportation, mail, financial and other services have been slowed or stopped altogether. Further delays or stoppages in transportation, mail, financial or other services could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the Company may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for transportation, insurance and security as a result of the activities and potential activities. The Company may also experience delays in receiving payments from counterparties that may have been affected by the terrorist activities and potential activities. The U.S. economy in general is being adversely affected by the terrorist activities and potential activities and any economic downturn could adversely impact results of operations, impair the ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely affect the ability to grow the business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 