Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below and in other reports that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The matters discussed in the risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully review the discussion, and the cautionary statements to which reference is made, set forth under “Forward-Looking Statements” below. 15 Table of Contents Risk Factors If our proposed acquisition by Brookfield is not completed, our business could be materially and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. On February 2, 2007, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (“Merger Agreement”) with Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (“Brookfield”). Completion of the acquisition requires the approval of our shareholders, the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. The acquisition is expected to close in the second quarter of 2007, but the acquisition may not be completed in the expected time period or at all. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, the market price of our common stock will likely decline, because we believe that our market price reflects an assumption that the proposed acquisition will be completed. In addition, our stock price may be adversely affected as a result of the fact that we have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses related to the proposed acquisition that will not be recovered if it is not completed. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, we may be obligated, under certain circumstances, to pay Brookfield a termination fee of $57 million. As a consequence of the failure of the acquisition to be completed, as well as of some or all of these potential effects of the termination of the Merger Agreement, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our proposed acquisition by Brookfield could adversely affect our relationships with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties. While the proposed acquisition with Brookfield is pending, current employees may experience uncertainty about their post-acquisition roles, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, operations, sales and other personnel. In addition, employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain employed with the Company following the acquisition. Furthermore, diversion of attention from ongoing operations on the part of management and employees could adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers and other parties. Also, while the acquisition is pending, customers may delay or defer decisions to purchase our products, which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Cyclical industry conditions and commodity pricing have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results reflect the general cyclical and seasonal pattern of the forest, paper and packaging products industries. Most of our products are commodity products and are subject to competition from other timber companies and paper and paperboard and packaging products manufacturers worldwide. Historically, prices for our products have been volatile, and we, like other participants in the forest, paper and packaging products industries, have limited influence over the timing and extent of price changes for our products. The demand for our timber is primarily affected by the level of new residential construction activity, home repair and remodeling activity. Demand for our paper and paperboard and packaging products is primarily affected by the state of the global economy in general and the economies in North America and East Asia, in particular. A prolonged and severe weakness in the markets for one or more of our principal products could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our cash requirements, including the payment of interest and principal on our debt, as well as our ability to pay dividends. Our industries are highly competitive and subject to wide price fluctuations that could adversely affect our results of operations. The forest, paper and packaging products industries are highly competitive globally, including significant competition from non-wood and engineered wood products, and no single company is dominant. These industries have suffered from excess capacity. Profitability of our Manufacturing segment depends, in part, on our ability to operate our manufacturing facilities efficiently and our Longview mill near full capacity. During the year ended 16 Table of Contents December 31, 2006, our Longview mill operated at 87.3% of capacity. Since these industries are capital intensive, higher fixed costs are incurred than in other industries and production can continue as long as prices are sufficient to cover marginal costs. Our competitors include large, vertically integrated forest, paper and packaging products companies and numerous smaller companies. Larger companies that compete with us in each of our markets may be better able to withstand the adverse nature of the business cycle because they may have greater financial and operating resources, have less leverage, and own more timberlands than we do. In the past, we have seen significant competition in our export markets as our global competitors have benefited from the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to their currencies. These conditions have contributed to substantial price competition and volatility within our industry, especially during periods of reduced demand. The weakening of the U.S. dollar over the past few years has had a positive effect on our export business, particularly on European competition in the Japanese lumber market where Japanese buyers have had an advantage purchasing U.S. wood products. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of our global competitors now or in the future, could adversely affect our operating results. These factors, coupled with our leveraged position, may harm our ability to respond to competition and other market conditions. Price fluctuations in raw materials could adversely affect our ability to cost effectively obtain the materials needed to manufacture our products. The most significant raw material used in our operations is fiber, including wood, recycled and other fiber which, during the year ended December 31, 2006, accounted for 41% of our costs of paper and paperboard products, not including shipping, warehousing and outward freight. We obtained approximately 85% of our fiber requirements at open market prices during 2006. We also obtained almost all of our recycled fiber on the open market. Wood and recycled fiber are both subject to commodity pricing, which fluctuates on the basis of market factors over which we have no control. In addition, the cost of fiber that we purchase in the market has, at times, fluctuated greatly because of economic or industry conditions, particularly conditions in the Pacific Northwest, where we purchase most of our fiber. Beginning in the fall of 2006, we experienced significant cost increases for wood fiber due to lower lumber production in the Pacific Northwest. This shortage resulted in a year-on-year increase of 19.1% in our wood fiber costs. Further, costs of wood fiber could be adversely affected by consolidation of sawmills in the Pacific Northwest, mill closures due to oversupplied domestic lumber markets, and more stringent environmental or other regulations affecting the supply or cost of timber to those sawmills. We may not be able to pass future raw material cost increases on to our customers through product price increases. Increased costs of raw materials, and our inability to pass increased costs on to our customers could harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our operations require substantial capital and our capital resources may not be adequate to provide for all of our cash requirements. Our operations require substantial capital. Capital requirements for expansion, replacement and maintenance of existing facilities or equipment or to comply with existing and future changes in environmental laws and regulations may be substantial. The periodic and scheduled maintenance we perform on our equipment may not obviate the need to repair or replace key pieces of equipment, and we could incur significant additional costs associated with environmental compliance. The costs of repairing or replacing equipment and the associated downtime of an affected production line could harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. If our future capital resources are inadequate to provide for our operating needs, and make capital expenditures and other cash requirements on favorable economic terms, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be harmed. We are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures and liabilities. Our businesses are subject to many federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, particularly with respect to the restoration and reforestation of timberlands, harvesting timber near 17 Table of Contents waterways, discharges of pollutants and emissions, and the management, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances or other contaminants. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business and we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant expenditures to remain in compliance. We expect that the environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject may become more stringent and more stringently enforced in the future and may reduce the amount of timber available for harvesting. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. In the state of Washington, we are required to file a Forest Practice Application for each unit of timber to be harvested. These applications may be denied or restricted by the regulatory agency or appealed by other parties, including citizen groups. Appeals or actions of the regulatory agencies could delay or restrict timber harvest activities pursuant to these permits. Delays or harvest restrictions on a significant number of applications could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Some environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at such facilities and sites without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. Investigations may lead to discoveries of contamination that must be remediated, and closures of facilities may trigger compliance requirements that are not applicable to operating facilities. Consequently, we cannot be sure that existing or future circumstances or developments with respect to contamination, including unanticipated discovery of contamination or discharges of hazardous substances, will not require significant expenditures by us or that internally generated funds or other sources of liquidity and capital will be sufficient to fund unforeseen environmental liabilities or expenditures. Some environmental laws permit individuals, citizens groups and other third parties to file claims against us based upon alleged violations of laws or damages to property stemming from contamination, or upon alleged injury to persons stemming from exposure to hazardous substances used or otherwise controlled by us. We may be required to expend significant sums to defend and/or settle existing or future claims. Environmental groups and other interested individuals may intervene in the regulatory processes in the states where we own timberlands. In the state of Washington, environmental groups and other interested individuals may appeal individual Forest Practice Applications or file petitions with the Forest Practices Board to challenge the regulations under which forest practices are approved. The same persons may also file or threaten to file lawsuits that seek to prevent us from implementing our operating plans, including seeking orders entirely preventing or restricting our ability to harvest our timberlands. Delays or restrictions due to the intervention of environmental groups or interested individuals could adversely affect our operating results. Forestry regulations, including regulations intended to protect threatened and endangered species, restrict timber harvesting and may otherwise restrict our ability to conduct our timberlands business. The Federal Endangered Species Act and counterpart state legislation protect species threatened with possible extinction. Protection of endangered species habitat includes restrictions on timber harvesting and related activities. A number of species indigenous to the Pacific Northwest have already been protected under the Endangered Species Act, including the northern spotted owl, marbled murrelet, mountain caribou, grizzly bear, bald eagle, and various anadromous fish species. Some of these species, including the northern spotted owl, and marbled murrelet are found in some of our timberlands, requiring us to adjust the harvest schedules on some of our timberland resources. Additional species within our timberlands could subsequently receive protected status under the Endangered Species Act or more members of species currently protected could be discovered within our timberlands, requiring us to refrain from harvesting timber on additional acres. Our timberlands may also become subject to laws and regulations designed to protect wetlands, which laws and regulations could restrict harvesting, road building and other activities. 18 Table of Contents High-energy costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Energy costs are a significant variable operating expense for us and are susceptible to rapid and substantial price increases and volatility. Our costs for energy are currently at relatively high levels and could continue to increase. Should energy costs increase in future periods, we may not be able to pass all increased energy costs on to our customers. In addition, the primary contracts pursuant to which we advantageously purchased and sold power in the past have expired and, under current terms, we have less flexibility in our ability to mitigate the costs of energy used by our facilities. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies and offshore manufacturing could result in fluctuations in the price of and the demand for our products. While all of our sales are made in U.S. dollars, a portion of our sales are made to customers operating in markets that use currencies other than U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2006, exports accounted for 9.8% of our total net sales. Of this amount, 3.3% of our total net sales came from log export sales to Japan, and 6.4% of our total net sales came from export sales of paper and paperboard, primarily to Hong Kong, Canada and Southeast Asia. During 2006, the continued weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of these countries helped our products be more competitive in the export market. However, strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of these countries could make it more expensive for our customers operating in foreign markets to purchase our products, could make our products less price competitive with our foreign competitors, and could consequently reduce the demand for our products. In addition, adverse currency valuations could make paper and paperboard from foreign competitors more price competitive in the U.S. market. This situation has caused, and, from time to time in the future, may again cause excess supply of paper and paperboard in the United States, which, in turn, would likely result in a decrease in U.S. paper and paperboard prices. Historically, a stronger U.S. dollar has been associated with migration of domestic manufacturing to offshore locations. If further migration of domestic manufacturing to offshore locations occurs, our manufacturing business could be adversely affected. Natural disasters or other events may cause losses to our timber holdings or limit our ability to harvest our timber. The volume and value of timber that can be harvested from our timberlands may be limited by natural disasters and other events such as fire, volcanic eruptions, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, windstorms, flooding, other weather conditions, and other causes. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, as is typical in the industry, we do not maintain insurance for any loss of our standing timber from natural disasters or other causes. In addition, fire and other natural disasters in adjacent or nearby timberlands may limit our access to, or impede our ability to, harvest our timber. In periods of poor logging conditions, we may harvest less timber than expected, thus impacting our net sales of timber during those periods. Our business and financial performance may be harmed by future labor disruptions and economically unfavorable collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 1,800 employees, or approximately 60% of our workforce, are parties to collective bargaining agreements. As a result, there is a risk of work stoppage due to strikes or walkouts. We have 11 collective bargaining agreements expiring at various times in 2007 through 2010. Any significant work stoppage as a result of the failure to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements or the inability to negotiate new agreements on economically beneficial terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our pulp and paper mill and all of our paper machines are located at a single complex in Longview, Washington. Our pulp and paper mill and all of our paper machines are located at a single complex in Longview, Washington. Since we do not have pulp and paper production elsewhere, a material disruption at our mill could result in a material disruption of our paper making operations. Such disruptions could be caused by: • prolonged power failures; • a breakdown of our continuous pulp digesters or recovery furnaces; • chemical spill or release; • disruption of raw material supply; • disruptions in the transportation infrastructure including railroad tracks, bridges, pipelines, tunnels and roads; or • fires, floods, earthquakes, volcanic eruption or other disasters. The business insurance and replacement value insurance we carry could prove to be inadequate to cover the total amount of any losses caused by any of the above events. In addition, we are not insured against any losses due to interruptions in our business from damage to, or destruction of, our Longview pulp and paper making complex caused by earthquakes or to major transportation infrastructure disruptions or other events that do not occur on our premises. A disruption in our pulp and paper operations would also adversely affect our converting plants which, during the year ended December 31, 2006, effectively obtained approximately 53% of their paperboard requirements from our Longview mill (either by direct shipment from our Longview mill or from shipments under barter or buy/sell agreements with third parties). Potential divestiture of eight converting facilities may adversely impact our results of operations in future periods. We announced during the second quarter of, 2006 that we are exploring the potential divestiture of up to eight converting facilities located in the eastern and central regions of the United States. If we divest the eight converting plants, it is likely that the No. 4 paper machine in the Longview mill will be permanently shut down and its net carrying value written down to net realizable value because this machine produces paperboard for those converting plants. Our assessment of the potential proceeds that may be realized from any divestitures of the converting facilities assumes, among other things, that the converting facilities are sold in one or more groups, rather than on an individual basis. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect and the net proceeds we achieve upon any sale of the converting facilities is less than their recorded net carrying amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements, we may be required to recognize a write-down that could negatively impact our results of operations in subsequent reporting periods. Changes in supply, caused by changes in the policies of governmental agencies, may affect timber prices and our revenues. Some governmental agencies, principally the Forest Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the U.S. Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Land Management, own large amounts of timberlands. If these agencies choose to sell more timber than they have been selling in recent years, timber prices could fall, reducing our revenues. Our operating and financial performance is dependent upon key personnel. We believe that our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the efforts and abilities or our senior operating management team. A failure to retain the members of our senior operating management team could adversely affect our operating and financial performance. 20 Table of Contents A significant portion of the timberlands that we own and manage is concentrated in a limited geographic area. We own and manage approximately 588,000 acres of timberlands located on nine tree farms in Oregon and Washington. Accordingly, if the level of production from these tree farms substantially declines, because of adverse growing or harvesting conditions in the Pacific Northwest or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our overall production levels and our revenues. We are subject to different risks than REITs in other industries. We are subject to certain risks that are not applicable to REITs focused on other types of property, because of our ownership of timberlands and our manufacturing operations. For example, while many other REITs derive substantial portions of their cash flow from leases or other contracts providing relatively stable payments, our cash flow and ability to maintain or increase dividends will be substantially dependent upon market prices for our timber and manufactured products that have historically been volatile. We are also subject to other risks discussed above which are not typically relevant to REITs but which are applicable to us, including risks associated with uninsured losses from natural disasters such as fire, volcanic eruptions, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, flooding, other weather conditions and other causes, and the risk that regulatory changes, such as those designed to protect threatened and endangered species. The occurrence of such natural disasters and/or regulatory changes could restrict timber harvesting in the future. If we fail to qualify as a REIT or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will have reduced funds available for distribution to our shareholders and our income will be subject to taxation at regular corporate rates. Our election for Longview Fibre Company to be taxed as a REIT, effective January 1, 2006, will be made in connection with the filing of our federal income tax return for 2006. However, we may not be able to qualify, or maintain qualification, as a REIT. Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership, and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests will depend upon our analysis of the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. The IRS could contend that our ownership interests in Longview Fibre Paper and Packaging, Inc. (“Longview TRS”), securities of other issuers, or other assets would give rise to a violation of the REIT requirements. If, in any taxable year, we fail to qualify as a REIT: • We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income; and • We would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would also result in higher income taxes, lower earnings and force us to restate our financial statements for 2006. In addition, we will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which the qualification was lost, unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions. As a result, net income and funds available for distribution to our shareholders could be reduced for up to five years or longer, which would have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Our cash dividends are not guaranteed and may fluctuate; we could reduce or eliminate dividends on our common stock. Because of the expected nature of our income, we may not be required to distribute material amounts of cash to qualify as a REIT. REITs generally are required to distribute 90% of their ordinary taxable income, but not their net capital gains income. As a REIT, we expect that, for the foreseeable future, our income will consist primarily of net capital gains resulting from payments we receive under timber-cutting contracts. We could elect to retain, rather than distribute, all or a portion of our net capital gains and still maintain our status as a REIT. To the extent that we elect to retain our net capital gains: • We would be required to pay the tax on such gains at regular corporate rates; • Our shareholders, although required to include their proportionate share of the undistributed capital gains in income, would receive a refundable credit for their share of the federal income tax paid by us; and • The basis of a shareholder’s stock would be increased by the amount of the undistributed capital gains (minus the amount of the federal income tax on capital gains paid by us which was included in income by the shareholder). The timing and amounts of our dividends have varied. In 2006, our Board of Directors significantly changed our dividend policy in anticipation of the REIT conversion. A first quarter of 2006 dividend of approximately $0.19 per share was declared and paid during the second quarter. Dividends of $0.23 per share were declared in each of the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2006 and were paid in the quarter following declaration. These per share amounts reflect the retroactive impact of the issuance of shares of our common stock in the REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution made on August 7, 2006. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, will determine the amount and frequency of dividends to be provided to our shareholders based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity, and other factors that may impose limitations on cash payments, future acquisitions and divestitures, harvest levels, changes in the price and demand for our products, and general market demand for timberlands. Consequently, our dividend levels may fluctuate, and the level of dividends we pay could be less than expected. If we lower our dividend or elect or are required to retain rather than distribute our income, our stock price could be adversely affected. As a REIT, we will be limited in our ability to fund dividend payments using cash generated through Longview TRS. Our ability to receive dividends from Longview TRS (from which we would make distributions to our shareholders) is limited by the rules we must comply with to maintain our status as a REIT. In particular, at least 75% of our gross income for each taxable year as a REIT must be derived from sales of our standing timber and other types of real estate income. No more than 25% of our gross income may consist of dividends from Longview TRS and other non-qualifying types of income. As a result, even if our non-REIT activities conducted through Longview TRS were to become highly profitable, we might be limited in our ability to receive distributions from Longview TRS in an amount required to fund dividends to our shareholders commensurate with that profitability. There are uncertainties relating to the REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution. On August 7, 2006, we made a one-timer IT E&P Special Dividend Distribution of our accumulated and undistributed earnings and profits (“E&P”) for taxable periods prior to January 1, 2006. There are substantial uncertainties relating to this distribution, including the possibility that the IRS could, in any audits for tax years through October 31, 2005, and for the stub period November 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005, successfully 22 Table of Contents assert that our taxable income should be increased, which would increase our E&P. Thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our E&P by the close of our first taxable year as a REIT. Moreover, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of certain procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our E&P or the economic impact on us of doing so. We expect that the REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution will be a taxable dividend, notwithstanding any elections by shareholders that received all or part of their portion of the distribution in the form of stock rather than cash. We expect that the entire amount of the REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution received by each shareholder will be treated for tax purposes as a taxable dividend, regardless of whether the shareholder received the distribution in the form of cash or shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. Therefore, the portion of the REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution received by a shareholder entirely in the form of shares of our common stock would generally be treated for federal income tax purposes as having received a taxable dividend from us, as would the portion of the REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution received by a shareholder entirely in cash or partly in cash and partly in the form of shares of our common stock. The REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution could be treated for tax purposes as a nontaxable stock dividend, which would preclude an effective distribution of E&P. We believe that the REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution will be taxable in its entirety. However, the IRS could argue that the imposition of the limit on the cash component of the REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution causes a portion of the common stock component of the distribution to be treated as a non-taxable stock dividend. Treatment of a portion of the common stock component of the REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution as a non-taxable stock dividend would reduce the amount of our E&P distributed through the REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution, and might require us to incur additional expenses and make an additional distribution when we lack the financial wherewithal to do so, or at a time when the tax rate would be less advantageous to our shareholders. An IRS assertion that the distribution of common stock was not a taxable distribution, if successful, would also result in a shareholder not having been required to recognize income. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to the REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution, and the statements and conclusions described above are not binding on the IRS. The extent of our proposed use of Longview TRS may affect the price of our common shares relative to the share price of other REITs. We conduct a portion of our business activities through Longview TRS. Longview TRS is a corporation subject to corporate-level tax. Our use of Longview TRS enables us to engage in non-REIT qualifying business activities such as the production and sale of specialty paper and containers, sales of timberlands (as a dealer), and sales of logs. However, under the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”), no more than 20% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of subsidiaries that are taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). This limitation may affect our ability to make investments in non-REIT qualifying operations. Furthermore, our use of Longview TRS may cause the market to value our common shares differently than the shares of other REITs, which may not use TRSs as extensively as we will use them. Our management has limited experience operating a REIT, and our future performance could be impaired as a result. None of our officers and directors, prior to January 1, 2006, had experience managing or operating a REIT. Compliance with the highly complex REIT rules may divert our management team’s attention from other business concerns. Our management team may be unable to replicate or exceed our historical performance while operating under the constraints imposed by REIT qualification rules. 23 Table of Contents Lack of shareholder ownership and transfer restrictions in our articles of incorporation may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, an entity cannot have five or fewer individuals who own, directly or indirectly after applying attribution of ownership rules, 50% or more of its outstanding voting shares. Although it is not required by law or the REIT provisions of the Code, many existing REITs have adopted ownership and transfer restrictions in their articles of incorporation or organizational documents which prevent five or fewer individuals from owning, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the outstanding voting shares of these entities. We do not have, nor do we currently plan on adopting, share ownership and transfer restrictions. As a result, the possibility exists that five or fewer individuals could acquire 50% or more of our outstanding voting shares, which could result in our failure to qualify as a REIT. Certain of our business activities are potentially subject to prohibited transactions tax or corporate-level tax. REITs are generally intended to be passive entities and can thus only engage in those activities permitted by the Code, which, for Longview Fibre Company, generally include: owning and managing a timberlands portfolio; growing timber; and selling standing timber. Accordingly, because the following activities generate non-qualifying REIT income, the manufacture and sale by us of wood products, containers, kraft paper, paperboard, certain types of timberlands sales, if any, and the harvest and sales of logs conducted through Longview TRS could constitute “prohibited transactions” if such activities were engaged in directly by the REIT. In general, prohibited transactions are defined by the Code to be sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. By conducting our business in this manner, we believe we will satisfy the REIT requirements of the Code and avoid the 100% tax that could be imposed if a REIT were to conduct a prohibited transaction. We may not always be successful, however, in limiting such activities to Longview TRS. Therefore, we could be subject to the 100% prohibited transactions tax if such instances were to occur. The pre-tax earnings of Longview TRS will be subject to corporate-level income tax. We will have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities as a REIT. If, during the ten-year period beginning on the first day of the first taxable year for which we qualified as a REIT (expected to be January 1, 2006), we recognize gain on the disposition of any property (other than the sale of standing timber pursuant to a timber-cutting contract) that we held as of such date, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of such date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of such date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on such gain at the highest regular corporate rate. Although we have no present intention to dispose of any property in a manner that would trigger such tax consequences, such dispositions could occur in the future. In addition, the IRS may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time we qualify as a REIT, in which case we will owe these taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. Moreover, any such increase in taxable income will result in an increase in accumulated earnings and profits, which could require us to pay an additional taxable distribution to our then-existing shareholders within 90 days of the relevant determination. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax laws, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect our investors or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. New legislation, Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or 24 Table of Contents court decisions could significantly affect our ability to qualify as a REIT and the federal income tax consequences of such changes and decisions could adversely affect us. An investment in our common shares involves other tax issues. We may face other tax liabilities as a REIT that may reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we hold some of our assets through Longview TRS. Longview TRS is a corporation subject to corporate-level income tax at regular rates. State tax laws may not conform to federal tax law. Though we expect to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes with the filing of our 2006 tax return, our qualification as a REIT under the laws of each individual state will depend, among other things, on that state’s conformity with federal tax law. In the case of a shareholder living in a state whose tax laws do not conform to the federal tax treatment of REITs, even if we do not do business in that state, cash distributions to that shareholder may be characterized as ordinary income rather than capital gains for purposes of computing that shareholder’s state taxes. Investors should consult with their tax advisors concerning the state tax consequences of an investment in our common shares. Capital gains distributions to non-U.S. shareholders are generally subject to withholding. We anticipate that our REIT distributions that are taxable to our shareholders, other than the REIT E&P Special Dividend Distribution, will primarily be treated as capital gains. Under the provisions of the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act, which applies to non-U.S. shareholders, capital gain distributions are generally subject to withholding at a rate of 35% to non-U.S. shareholders who own more than 5% of our common stock and 30% to other non-U.S. shareholders unless, in each case, reduced as provided by an applicable income tax treaty. These distributions may also be subject to a 30% branch profits tax in the hands of a non-U.S. shareholder that is a corporation. We could lack access to funds to meet our distribution and tax obligations. To the extent we do not meet REIT income distribution requirements, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the undistributed amount. We also could be required to pay taxes and liabilities attributable to periods and events prior to the REIT conversion and additional taxes in the event we were to fail to qualify as a REIT. In addition, unless we elect to retain our earnings, we will generally be required to refinance debt that matures with additional debt or equity. The amount of funds, if any, available to us could be insufficient to meet our distribution and tax obligations. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders, and the ownership of our stock. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, including investments in the businesses to be conducted by Longview TRS. The tax treatment for our dividends may fluctuate and may vary among different types of investors, which may change their value to some investors. As a REIT, we expect that, for the foreseeable future, our income will consist primarily of net capital gains. A shareholder may offset such gains with the shareholder’s capital losses from other sources, if any. A portion of 25 Table of Contents our dividends may be treated as qualified dividends (eligible for the 15% maximum rate for individuals) or ordinary income. Moreover, our dividends as a REIT will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction that is otherwise available to U.S. shareholders that are domestic corporations (other than S corporations), and corporate shareholders that receive our dividends may be subject to certain other special rules. These treatments may have different tax consequences to different investors, which may affect the after-tax value of our dividends. We have substantial debt that could reduce the effectiveness of our operations. We have a large amount of debt outstanding. At December 31, 2006, our year-end, we had $519.2 million of borrowed debt. This substantial level of debt could have important consequences, including: • Making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, including debt service requirements; • Placing us at competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • Limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures and debt service requirements; • Limiting our ability to use cash flow from operations for capital expenditures, working capital, dividends to shareholders, and other purposes; • Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • Limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities, including our ability to make strategic acquisitions, and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in our business, our industry or government regulation. We hedge a portion of our variable rate term debt for exposure to changes in cash flow as a result of changes in interest rates with fixed interest rate swap agreements. For our variable interest rate borrowings that are not hedged with fixed interest rate swap agreements, interest rates could increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds could be reduced, and the risks related to our substantial indebtedness would intensify. Our indebtedness imposes restrictions on us that may adversely affect our business operations and our ability to service our debt. Our debt instruments include covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • Incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; • Pay dividends or make other distributions on capital stock; • Repurchase capital stock; • Make loans and investments; • Dispose of assets; • Enter new lines of business; • Enter into transactions with affiliates; and • Create liens on our assets. Our credit agreement subjects us to maintenance requirements with respect to financial ratios, including that our (1) net worth be maintained above a specified minimum, (2) total debt to capitalization ratio not exceed a specified maximum, and (3) interest coverage ratio must be above a specified minimum. These covenants in our credit agreement could restrict our ability to expand or to fully pursue our business strategies and opportunities. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of our debt obligations may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory 26 Table of Contents developments or other events beyond our control. The breach of any applicable debt covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness, which could cause those obligations to become immediately due and payable. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may be unable to repay it. Provisions in our organizational documents, applicable laws, debt instruments, and other contractual arrangements could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, applicable state of Washington laws, and our shareholder rights plan, debt instruments, the Merger Agreement, and other contractual arrangements could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. For example, various of the foregoing: • Permit our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock with rights and preferences designated by our Board; • Impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at shareholder meetings; • Divide our Board of Directors into three classes of directors serving staggered terms; • Limit the ability of shareholders to remove directors; • Allow the Board of Directors to fill any vacancies on our Board; • Limit shareholders’ ability to call special meetings of shareholders and to take action by written consent without a meeting; • Prohibit us from consummating a “significant business transaction” with any person who acquires 10% of our voting stock for a period of five years from the date such acquiring person makes such an acquisition unless the transaction or acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of our Board of Directors prior to the time of the acquisition; • With certain exceptions, require an affirmative vote of two-thirds of our shareholders to approve a merger, share exchange or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets not in the ordinary course of business and provide for dissenters’ rights under several of the same circumstances; • Restrict our ability to solicit or consider business combination transactions other than our proposed acquisition by Brookfield; • Provide that any amendment to our articles of incorporation reducing to less than two-thirds the percentage of votes necessary to approve a merger, share exchange, sale of assets not in the ordinary course of business or dissolution is not effective unless such amendment is approved by two-thirds of all the votes entitled to vote, and this provision is protected by the same supermajority voting provision; • Require that, in many potential takeover situations, rights issued under our shareholder rights plan become exercisable to purchase our common stock and potentially other securities at a price substantially discounted from the then applicable market price; and • May require, upon specified types of change in control, that we repurchase our outstanding debt securities. These provisions and similar provisions that could apply to us in the future may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or otherwise adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. Such provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. 27 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements Except for historical information, the statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions or estimates, discuss future expectations, describe future plans and strategies, contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or state other forward-looking information. Our ability to predict results or the actual effect of future plans or strategies is inherently uncertain. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, actual results and performance could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in some cases can be identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “potential,” “intend,” “expect,” “endeavor,” “seek,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “could,” “would,” “project,” “predict,” “continue,” “plan,” “propose” or other similar words or expressions. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, among others, statements concerning our potential acquisition by a third party, our future dividends and distributions, our operation and tax treatment as a REIT, expected timber harvest levels, expected realization from HBU land sales, the effect of potential asset divestitures, future operation of certain converting facilities, possible future impairments, the effect of our operating plan, the continued expansion of our timber resource base, expected capital expenditures, our pursuit of opportunities to reduce operating costs and increase efficiency, expected uses of energy, expected sources of income, anticipated counterparty performance of our swap agreements and the impact of these agreements on cash flows and interest expense, and our exploration of strategic alternatives. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which reflect our management’s estimates as of the date of this report, and subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Actual events, circumstances or results could differ materially from those anticipated by the Company or reflected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including but not limited to: • The completion of our acquisition by a third party; • Our ability to achieve our strategies and the results of these strategies; • Developments in the world, national or regional economy or involving our customers or competitors affecting supply of or demand for our products, energy or raw materials, including the level of interest rates and new housing starts; • Changes in pricing and market conditions for our products, energy and certain raw materials, including changes in log, paper and paperboard, and converted products pricing and demand, and changes in the cost of wood chips and other sources of fiber used for our manufactured products; • Adverse harvest conditions, such as bad weather, or changes in regulations affecting our timber operations and the actual level and quality of logs we harvest; • Our dependence on timber resources; • Our ability to achieve anticipated improvements in operating results and earnings and expected cost reductions; • Our having sufficient resources to fund operations and meet debt payment obligations and capital expenditure requirements; • Our working capital needs, including inventory levels and raw material requirements; • Unexpected capital expenditures and the timing of completion and results of capital expenditure projects; • Our ability to reduce debt and prioritize the use of excess cash to reduce debt; • Possible effects of changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and currencies of important export markets (particularly Japan); 28 Table of Contents • Cost of compliance with environmental regulations and effects of environmental contingencies, litigation and regulations on our financial condition and results of operations, and our competitive position; • Implementation or revision of government policies affecting the environment, import and export control, and taxes; • Availability of excess cash to pay dividends; • Our ability to satisfy complex technical rules in order to maintain REIT status and to operate effectively within the limitations imposed by those rules; • Capital project delays, cost overruns or unforeseen maintenance on capital assets; • The availability of, and our ability to finance the purchase of, timberland at attractive prices; • Risks and costs associated with the restructuring of our manufacturing operations, including the potential divestiture of select converting plants; • The actual market for higher and better use lands; • Adverse changes in the capital markets or interest rates affecting the cost or availability of financing; • Disasters and other unforeseen events; • Potential changes in tax laws affecting REITs that could reduce the tax benefits associated with being a REIT; • The expected heightened sensitivity of our stock price to the level of dividends on our common stock; and • Other unforeseen developments in our business, operations or in the financial markets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 29 Table of Contents 