ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our Chemical and Climate Control Businesses and their customers are sensitive to adverse economic cycles. Our Chemical Business can be affected by cyclical factors such as inflation, global energy policy and costs, global market conditions and economic downturns in specific industries. Certain sales of our Chemical Business are sensitive to the level of activity in the agricultural, mining, automotive and housing industries. A substantial decline in the activity of our Chemical Business has in the past, and could in the future, have a material adverse effect on the results of our Chemical Business and on our liquidity and capital resources. Further, material economic changes that adversely affect our natural gas working interests or lower natural gas prices may require us to write down the carrying value of our natural gas working interests. Therefore, these changes in our Chemical Business could adversely impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. Our Climate Control Business also can be affected by cyclical factors, such as interest rates, inflation and economic downturns. Our Climate Control Business depends on sales to customers in the construction and renovation industries, which are particularly sensitive to these factors. A decline in the economic activity in the U.S. has in the past, and could in the future, have a material adverse effect on us and our customers in the construction and renovation industries in which our Climate Control Business sells a substantial amount of its products. Such a decline could result in a decrease in revenues and profits, and an increase in bad debts that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Weather conditions adversely affect our Chemical Business. The agricultural products produced and sold by our Chemical Business have been in the past, and could be in the future, materially affected by adverse weather conditions (such as excessive rain or drought) in the primary markets for our fertilizer and related agricultural products. If any of these unusual weather events occur during the primary seasons for sales of our agricultural products (March-June and September-November), this could have a material adverse effect on the agricultural sales of our Chemical Business and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, weather conditions, severe or otherwise, may adversely affect the construction, refurbishment and renovation of facilities that utilize our Climate Control products resulting in lower product order levels during those periods. Despite continuing investment to upgrade and replace equipment on an ongoing basis, the age of facilities of our Chemical Business increases the risk for unplanned downtime which may be significant. Our Chemical Business is comprised of operating units of various ages and levels of automated control. While we have continued to make significant annual capital improvements, potential age or control related issues have occurred in the past and may occur in the future, which could cause damage to the equipment and ancillary facilities. For example, during 2014, certain of our chemical facilities had planned and unplanned downtime as a result of certain maintenance and equipment issues. As a result, we have and may continue to experience additional downtime at our chemical facilities in the future. The equipment required for the manufacture of our chemical products is specialized, and the time for replacement of such equipment can be lengthy, resulting in extended downtime in the affected unit. Although we utilize various reliability and inspection programs and maintain a significant inventory of spare equipment, which are intended to mitigate the extent of production losses, unplanned outages may still occur. As a result, these planned and unplanned downtime events at our chemical facilities have in the past and could in the future adversely impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Current and future legislative or regulatory requirements impacting our Chemical Business may result in increased costs and decreased revenues, cash flows and liquidity or could have other negative impacts on our Chemical Business. Our businesses are subject to numerous health, safety, security and environmental laws and regulations, primarily relating to our Chemical Business. The manufacture and distribution of chemical products are activities which entail health, safety and environmental risks and impose obligations under health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. Although we believe we have established processes to monitor, review and manage our businesses to comply with the numerous health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, our Chemical Business has in the past, and may in the future, be subject to fines, penalties and sanctions for violations and substantial expenditures for cleanup costs and other liabilities relating to the handling, manufacture, use, emission, discharge or disposal of effluents at or from the Chemical Business’ facilities. Further, a number of our Chemical Business’ facilities are dependent on environmental permits to operate, the loss or modification of which could have a material adverse effect on their operations and our financial condition. Changes to the production equipment at our chemical facilities as may be required in order to comply with health, safety and environmental regulations may require substantial capital expenditures. Explosions and/or losses at other chemical facilities not owned by us (such as the explosion in West, Texas) could also result in new or additional legislation or regulatory changes, particularly relating to public health, safety or any of the products manufactured and/or sold by our Chemical Business or the inability on the part of our Chemical Business’ customers to obtain or maintain insurance as to certain products manufactured and/or sold by our Chemical Business, which could have a negative impact on the revenues, cash flow and/or liquidity of our Chemical Business. In summary, new or changed laws and regulations or the inability of the customers of our Chemical Business to obtain or maintain insurance in connection with any of our chemical products could have an adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. We may be required to modify or expand our operating, sales and reporting procedures and install additional equipment for our Chemical Business in order to comply with current and possible future government regulations. The chemical industry in general, and producers and distributors of ammonia and AN specifically, are scrutinized by the government, industry and public on security issues. Under current and proposed regulations, we may be required to incur substantial additional costs relating to security at our chemical facilities and distribution centers, as well as in the transportation of our products. These costs could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The cost of such regulatory changes, if significant enough, could lead some of our customers to choose alternate products to ammonia and AN, which would have a significant impact on our Chemical Business. In order to comply with the “Secure Handling of Ammonium Nitrate Act of 2007” as enacted by the U.S. Congress, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has published a notice of the proposed rulemaking. This regulation proposes to require sellers, buyers, their agents and transporters of solid AN and certain solid mixtures containing AN to possess a valid registration issued by DHS, keep certain records, report the theft or unexplained loss of regulated materials and certain other new requirements. We and other parties affected by this proposal have submitted appropriate comments to DHS regarding the proposed regulation. Depending on the provisions of the final regulation to be promulgated by DHS and on our ability to pass these costs to our customers, these requirements may have a negative effect on the profitability of our AN business and may result in fewer distributors who are willing to handle the product. It is reasonably possible that compliance with the final regulation may be required during 2015 based on comments from the DHS. On August 1, 2013, the Obama Administration issued an order addressing the safety and security of chemical facilities in response to recent incidents involving chemicals such as the April 2013 explosion at West, Texas. The Obama Administration is directing federal agencies to enhance existing regulations and make recommendations to the U.S. Congress to develop new laws that may affect our Chemical Business. U.S. regulators including the DHS, the EPA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and other Federal organizations, have issued to the requests for information, clarifications and other documents in response to the Executive Order. 10 Table of Contents Proposed governmental laws and regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions may subject certain of our Chemical Business’ facilities to significant new costs and restrictions on their operations and reduction in sales. The manufacturing facilities within our Chemical Business use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other raw materials necessary for the production of their chemical products that result, or could result, in certain greenhouse gas emissions into the environment. Federal and state courts and administrative agencies, including the EPA, are considering the scope and scale of greenhouse gas emission regulation. Legislation is being considered that would regulate greenhouse gas emissions at some point in the future for our facilities and has already impacted certain of our customers leading to closure or rate reductions of certain facilities. The EPA has instituted a mandatory greenhouse gas reporting requirement that began in 2010, which impacts all of our chemical manufacturing sites. Greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity and other energy sources purchased by our chemical facilities; increase costs for natural gas and other raw materials (such as ammonia); potentially restrict access to or the use of certain raw materials necessary to produce our chemical products; and require us to incur substantial expenditures to retrofit our chemical facilities to comply with the proposed new laws and regulations regulating greenhouse gas emissions, if adopted. Federal, state and local governments may also pass laws mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may increase the cost of energy use in certain of our chemical and other manufacturing operations. As it relates to our Chemical Business’ working interest in natural gas properties, legislative and regulatory proposals for restricting greenhouse gas emissions or otherwise addressing climate change could require our Chemical Business to incur additional operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the natural gas that the operator of these wells intends to sell. While future emission regulations or new laws appear possible, it is difficult to predict how these regulations, if and when adopted, will affect our businesses, operations, liquidity or financial results. There is intense competition in the Climate Control and Chemical industries. Substantially all of the markets in which we participate are highly competitive with respect to product quality, price, design innovations, distribution, service, warranties, reliability and efficiency. We compete with a number of companies, domestic and foreign, that have greater financial, marketing and other resources. Competitive factors could require us to reduce prices or increase spending on product development, marketing and sales that would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Specific to the Chemical business we compete with a number of U.S. producers and producers in other countries, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. Some competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from chemical sales, which makes them less vulnerable to industry downturns and better positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. Our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources sufficiently either through investments in new or existing operations or through acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. An inability to compete successfully could result in the loss of customers, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. A substantial portion of our sales is dependent upon a limited number of customers. For 2014, seven customers of our Chemical Business accounted for approximately 30% of its net sales and 19% of our consolidated net sales. The loss of, or a material reduction in purchase levels by, one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity if we are unable to replace a customer with other sales on substantially similar terms. Cost and the lack of availability of raw materials could materially affect our profitability and liquidity. Our sales and profits are heavily affected by the costs and availability of primary raw materials. These primary raw materials are subject to considerable price volatility. Historically, when there have been rapid increases in the cost of these primary raw materials, we have sometimes been unable to timely increase our sales prices to cover all of the higher costs incurred. While we periodically enter into futures/forward contracts to economically hedge against price increases in certain of these raw materials, there can be no assurance that we will effectively manage against price fluctuations in those raw materials. Since we source certain of our raw materials and components on a global basis, we may experience long lead times in procuring those raw materials and components purchased overseas, as well as being subject to tariff controls and other international trade barriers, which may increase the uncertainty of raw material and component availability and pricing volatility. Anhydrous ammonia, natural gas and sulfur represent the primary raw material feedstocks in the production of most of the products of the Chemical Business. Although our Chemical Business enters into contracts with certain customers that provide for the pass-through of raw material costs, we have a substantial amount of sales that do not provide for the pass-through of raw material costs. Also the spot sales prices of our agricultural products may not have a correlation to the ammonia and natural gas feedstock costs but rather reflect market conditions for like and competing nitrogen sources. This lack of 11 Table of Contents correlation can compromise our ability to recover our full cost to produce the product in this market. In addition, the Climate Control Business depends on raw materials such as copper and steel, which have shown considerable price volatility. As a result, in the future, we may not be able to pass along to all of our customers the full amount of any increases in raw material costs. There can be no assurance that future price fluctuations in our raw materials will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. As stated above, natural gas represents one of the primary raw materials in the production of our Chemical Business’ products, and, as a result, we acquired natural gas working interests as an economic hedge against rising prices for natural gas. Our natural gas working interests may not be effective as an economic hedge under certain limited conditions. We do not operate our natural gas working interest properties and have no, or very limited, ability to exercise influence over operations of these properties or their associated cost. Additionally, we depend on certain vendors to deliver the primary raw materials and other key components that are required in the production of our products. Any disruption in the supply of the primary raw materials and other key components could result in lost production or delayed shipments. We have suspended in the past, and could suspend in the future, production at our chemical facilities due to, among other things, the high cost or lack of availability of such primary raw materials, which could adversely impact our competitiveness in the markets we serve. Accordingly, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially affected in the future by the lack of availability of primary raw materials and other key components and increase costs relating to the purchase of raw materials or the production of our natural gas working interests. Potential increase of imported agricultural products. Russia and Ukraine both have substantial capacity to produce and export fertilizer grade AN. Producers in these countries also benefit from below-market prices for natural gas, due to Government regulation and other factors. Fertilizer grade AN imports from Russia and Ukraine are currently subject to U.S. antidumping duty orders, which require these imports to be sold in the U.S. market at a fair value. Currently, imports of fertilizer grade AN from certain Russian producers are subject to an antidumping duty rate of 254% and all imports of fertilizer grade AN from Ukraine are subject to an antidumping duty rate of 156%. On November 24, 2014, the Department of Commerce’s International Trade Administration upheld a preliminary review published by the DOC in May 2014, saying it continues to find that sales of AN to the U.S. “have not been made at prices below normal value”. As a result of the ruling, dumping margins of zero percent have been assigned to AN imports from certain Russian producers and exporters. The antidumping orders that exist on the Ukrainian and Russian product in the past have substantially restrained the volumes of these imports. The decision by the DOC to eliminate the duty rates will likely increase the volumes of Russian fertilizer grade AN in the U.S., possibly priced below our current cost to produce fertilizer grade AN. In addition, producers in China have substantial capacity to produce and export urea. Depending on various factors, including prevailing prices from other exporters, the price of coal, and the price of China’s export tariff, higher volumes of urea from China could be imported into the U.S. at prices that have and could have an adverse effect on the selling prices of other nitrogen products, including the nitrogen products we manufacture and sell. We may have inadequate insurance. While we maintain liability, property and business interruption insurance, including certain coverage for environmental contamination, it is subject to coverage limits and policies may exclude coverage for some types of damages (which may include warranty claims). Although there may currently be sources from which such coverage may be obtained, it may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or the possible types of liabilities that may be incurred by us may not be covered by our insurance. In addition, our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies or the dollar amount of the liabilities may exceed our policy limits. Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. LSB is a holding company and depends, in large part, on receiving funds from its subsidiaries to fund our indebtedness. Because LSB is a holding company and operations are conducted through its subsidiaries, LSB’s ability to meet its obligations depends, in large part, on the operating performance and cash flows of its subsidiaries and the ability of its subsidiaries to make distributions and pay dividends to LSB. Our substantial level of indebtedness could limit our financial and operating activities, and adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. We currently have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As a result, this level of indebtedness could, among other things: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal (primarily relating to 2019) and interest, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; 12 Table of Contents • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, including our repurchase obligations; • limit our ability to borrow additional money if needed for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes, on satisfactory terms or at all; • limit our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions; • place us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who may have less indebtedness or greater access to financing; • make us more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic conditions; and • make us more susceptible to changes in credit ratings, which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such financing. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition, and liquidity. Loss of key personnel could negatively affect our business. We believe that our performance has been and will continue to be dependent upon the efforts of our principal executive officers. We cannot promise that our principal executive officers will continue to be available. Jack E. Golsen has an employment agreement with us. No other principal executive has an employment agreement with us. The loss of some of our principal executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, and natural disasters (such as hurricanes, pandemic health crisis, etc.), have negatively impacted and could negatively impact U.S. and foreign companies, the financial markets, the industries where we operate, our operations and profitability. Terrorist attacks and natural disasters (such as hurricanes) have in the past negatively impacted, and can in the future negatively affect our operations. We cannot predict further terrorist attacks and natural disasters in the U.S. and elsewhere. These attacks or natural disasters have contributed to economic instability in the U.S. and elsewhere, and further acts of terrorism, violence, war or natural disasters could further affect the industries where we operate, our ability to purchase raw materials, our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, terrorist attacks and natural disasters may directly impact our physical facilities, especially our chemical facilities, or those of our suppliers or customers and could impact our sales, our production capability and our ability to deliver products to our customers. In the past, hurricanes affecting the Gulf Coast of the U.S. have negatively impacted our operations and those of our customers. The consequences of any terrorist attacks or hostilities or natural disasters are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our operations. Risks associated with capital projects may prevent the completion of those projects on budget, on schedule or at all. We are undertaking capital projects and may undertake additional capital projects in the future. Capital projects entail risks, including, but not limited to: • unanticipated cost increases; • unforeseen engineering or environmental problems; • work stoppages; • weather interference; • unavailability of necessary equipment; and • unavailability of financing on acceptable terms. Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, easements, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or completion of a capital project. In addition, a capital project could be negatively impacted if we are required to obtain additional debt or equity financing to complete a capital project or we are unable to obtain adequate sources of funding, such as the inability to obtain other debt or equity financing on acceptable terms or at all. Moreover, if we are able to complete a capital project, production levels at our facilities or general market conditions may not meet our expectations. As a result of these factors, our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition could be adversely impacted. 13 Table of Contents Risks generally associated with implementation of an ERP system may adversely affect our business operation and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. We have begun to implement an ERP system, which, when completed, will handle the business and financial processes of our subsidiaries’ operations and our corporate and administrative functions, such as: • facilitating the process of purchasing, manufacturing and distributing inventories; • receiving, processing, and shipping orders on a timely basis, • managing the accuracy of billings and collections for our customers; • processing payments to our suppliers; • managing the accuracy of payroll; and • generating financial transactions, information and reports. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities that can continue for several years. ERP implementations also require transformation of business and financial processes in order to benefit from a new ERP system. Our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems and cost overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system (and the associated process changes) do not generate the expected benefits. Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the ERP system as planned or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect our financial reporting. Cyber security risks could adversely affect our business operations. As we continue to increase our dependence on information technologies to conduct our operations, the risks associated with cyber security also increase. We rely on our ERP and other information systems, among other things, to manage our manufacturing, supply chain, accounting and financial functions. This risk not only applies to us, but also to third parties on whose systems we place significant reliance for the conduct of our business. We have implemented security procedures and measures in order to protect our information from being vulnerable to theft, loss, damage or interruption from a number of potential sources or events. Although we believe these measures and procedures are appropriate, we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate, prevent, or recover from rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Compromises to our information systems could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We are currently effectively controlled by the Golsen Group Jack E. Golsen, our Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, members of his immediate family, including Barry H. Golsen, our CEO and President, entities owned by them and trusts for which they possess voting or dispositive power as trustee owned as of February 13, 2015, an aggregate of 2,815,064 shares of our common stock and 1,020,000 shares of our voting preferred stock (1,000,000 of which shares have .875 votes per share, or 875,000 votes), which together votes as a class and represents approximately 16% of the voting power (prior to conversion of the shares of voting preferred) of our issued and outstanding voting securities as of that date. The series of preferred represented by the 20,000 shares of voting preferred is convertible into an aggregate of 666,666 shares of our common stock. Thus, the Golsen Group may be considered to effectively control us. As a result, the ability of other stockholders to influence our management and policies could be limited. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of a proxy contest. We have received a request for our Board of Directors to consider certain proposals as to our business and notice that there may be a slate of directors proposed in opposition to the three directors that are up for election at our 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and that would be nominated by our Board of Directors. Our business, operating results, liquidity or financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the proposals and a potential proxy contest because, among other things: • considering and responding to the proposals and a potential proxy contest has been, and may continue to be, disruptive, costly and time consuming and a significant distraction for our management; • perceived uncertainties as to our future may result in the loss of current customers and potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel; 14 Table of Contents • it may adversely affect our ability to create additional value for our stockholders by effectively limiting the implementation of our business strategy and/or requiring us to adopt a new business strategy that is not in our best interest; and • future trading prices of our common stock could be affected by public statements and other actions in a proxy contest, which we cannot predict or control. We have not paid dividends on our outstanding common stock in many years. Although we have paid dividends on our outstanding series of preferred stock (which are owned by the Golsen Group), in the past we have not paid cash dividends on our outstanding common stock in many years, and we do not currently anticipate paying cash dividends on our outstanding common stock in the near future. However, our Board of Directors has not made a decision whether or not to pay such dividends on our common stock in 2015. In addition, there are certain limitations contained in our loan agreements that may limit our ability to pay dividends on our outstanding common stock. Future issuance or potential issuance of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock, our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings and could dilute the percentage ownership of our common stockholders. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, or the issuance of a substantial amount of our common stock as the result of conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stocks, or the perception that such sales or conversions could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could dilute the value of common stock held by our existing stockholders. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of, or conversions of our outstanding preferred stocks into, shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale will have on the trading price of our common stock. Such future sales or conversions could also significantly reduce the percentage ownership of our common stockholders. We are subject to a variety of factors that could discourage other parties from attempting to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered Board of Directors and, except in limited circumstances, a two-thirds vote of outstanding voting shares to approve a merger, consolidation or sale of all, or substantially all, of our assets. In addition, we have entered into severance agreements with our executive officers and some of the executive officers of certain subsidiaries that provide, among other things, that if, within a specified period of time after the occurrence of a change in control of LSB, these officers are terminated, other than for cause, or the officer terminates his employment for good reason, we must pay such officer an amount equal to 2.9 times the officer’s average annual gross salary for the last five years preceding the change in control. We have authorized and unissued (including shares held in treasury) 52,352,250 shares of common stock and 4,230,000 shares of preferred stock as of December 31, 2014. These unissued shares could be used by our management to make it more difficult, and thereby discourage an attempt to acquire control of us. We have adopted a preferred share purchase plan, which is designed to protect us against certain creeping acquisitions, open market purchases and certain mergers and other combinations with acquiring companies. The foregoing provisions and agreements are designed to discourage a third party tender offer, proxy contest, or other attempts to acquire control of us and could have the effect of making it more difficult to remove incumbent management. Delaware has adopted an anti-takeover law which, among other things, will delay for three years business combinations with acquirers of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of publicly-held companies (such as us), unless: • prior to such time the Board of Directors of the corporation approved the business combination that results in the stockholder becoming an invested stockholder; • the acquirer owned at least 85% of the outstanding voting stock of such company prior to commencement of the transaction; • two-thirds of the stockholders, other than the acquirer, vote to approve the business combination after approval thereof by the Board of Directors; or • the stockholders of the corporation amend its articles of incorporation or by-laws electing not to be governed by this provision 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents 