ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Us and Our Business Cost and the lack of availability of raw materials could materially affect our profitability and liquidity. Our sales and profits are heavily affected by the costs and availability of primary raw materials. These primary raw materials, which are purchased from unrelated third parties, are subject to considerable price volatility. Historically, when there have been rapid increases in the cost of these primary raw materials, we have sometimes been unable to timely increase our sales prices to cover all of the higher costs incurred. While we periodically enter into futures/forward contracts to economically hedge against price increases in certain of these raw materials, there can be no assurance that we will effectively manage against price fluctuations in those raw materials. Anhydrous ammonia, natural gas and sulfur represent the primary raw material feedstocks in the production of most of the products of the Chemical Business. Although our Chemical Business has a program to enter into contracts with certain customers that provide for the pass-through of raw material costs, we have a substantial amount of sales that do not provide for the pass-through of raw material costs. In addition, the Climate Control Business depends on raw materials such as copper and steel, which have shown considerable price volatility. As a result, in the future, we may not be able to pass along to all of our customers the full amount of any increases in raw material costs. There can be no assurance that future price fluctuations in our raw materials will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Additionally, we depend on certain vendors to deliver the primary raw materials and other key components that are required in the production of our products. Any disruption in the supply of the primary raw materials and other key components could result in lost production or delayed shipments. We have suspended in the past, and could suspend in the future, production at our chemical facilities due to, among other things, the high cost or lack of availability of such primary raw materials, which could adversely impact our competitiveness in the markets we serve. Accordingly, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially affected in the future by the lack of availability of primary raw materials and other key components. Our Climate Control and Chemical Businesses and their customers are sensitive to adverse economic cycles. Our Climate Control Business can be affected by cyclical factors, such as interest rates, inflation and economic downturns. Our Climate Control Business depends on sales to customers in the construction and renovation industries, which are particularly sensitive to these factors. Due to the current recession, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience a decline in both commercial and residential construction. A decline in the economic activity in the United States has in the past, and could in the future, have a material adverse effect on us and our customers in the construction and renovation industries in which our Climate Control Business sells a substantial amount of its products. Such a decline could result in a decrease in revenues and profits, and an increase in bad debts, in our Climate Control Business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our Chemical Business also can be affected by cyclical factors such as inflation, global energy policy and costs, global market conditions and economic downturns in specific industries. Certain sales of our Chemical Business are sensitive to the level of activity in the agricultural, mining, automotive and housing industries. Certain of our industrial and mining customers have been affected and we expect will continue to be affected by the current economic recession and could substantially reduce their purchases. A substantial decline in the activity of our Chemical Business has in the past, and could in the future, have a material adverse effect on the results of our Chemical Business and on our liquidity and capital resources. Weather conditions adversely affect our Chemical Business. The agricultural products produced and sold by our Chemical Business have in the past, and could in the future, be materially affected by adverse weather conditions (such as excessive rains or drought) in the primary markets for our fertilizer and related agricultural products. If any of these unusual weather events occur during the primary seasons for sales of our agricultural products (March-June and September-November), this could have a material adverse effect on the agricultural sales of our Chemical Business and our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental and regulatory matters entail significant risk for us. Our Chemical Business is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. The manufacture and distribution of chemical products are activities, which entail environmental 20 Table of Contents risks and impose obligations under environmental laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. Although we have established processes to monitor, review and manage our businesses to comply with the numerous environmental laws and regulations, our Chemical Business has in the past, and may in the future, be subject to fines, penalties and sanctions for violations and substantial expenditures for cleanup costs and other liabilities relating to the handling, manufacture, use, emission, discharge or disposal of effluents at or from the Chemical Business’ facilities. Further, a number of our Chemical Business’ facilities are dependent on environmental permits to operate, the loss or modification of which could have a material adverse effect on their operations and our financial condition. We may be required to expand our security procedures and install additional security equipment for our Chemical Business in order to comply with current and possible future government regulations, including the Homeland Security Act of 2002. The chemical industry in general, and producers and distributors of anhydrous ammonia and AN specifically, are scrutinized by the government, industry and public on security issues. Under current and proposed regulations, including the Homeland Security Act of 2002, we may be required to incur substantial additional costs relating to security at our chemical facilities and distribution centers, as well as in the transportation of our products. These costs could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The cost of such regulatory changes, if significant enough, could lead some of our customers to choose alternate products to anhydrous ammonia and AN, which would have a significant impact on our Chemical Business. Proposed governmental laws and regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions may subject certain of our Chemical Business’ facilities to significant new costs and restrictions on their operations. Certain of the manufacturing facilities within our Chemical Business use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other raw materials necessary for the production of their chemical products that result, or could result, in certain greenhouse gas emissions into the environment. Federal and state courts and administrative agencies are considering the scope and scale of greenhouse gas emission regulation. There are bills pending in Congress that would regulate greenhouse gas emissions through a cap-and-trade system under which emitters would be required to either install abatement systems where feasible or buy allowances for offsets of emissions of greenhouse gas. In addition, the EPA has announced its determination that greenhouse gases threaten the public’s health and welfare and thus could make them subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act. However this determination is being contested. The EPA has instituted a mandatory greenhouse gas reporting requirement beginning in 2010, which will impact all of our chemical manufacturing sites. Greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity purchased by these chemical facilities and increase costs for our use of natural gas, other raw materials (such as anhydrous ammonia), and other energy sources, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas and certain other raw materials necessary to produce certain of our chemical products and require us to incur substantial expenditures to retrofit these chemical facilities to comply with the proposed new laws and regulations 21 Table of Contents regulating greenhouse gas emissions, if adopted. Federal, state and local governments may also pass laws mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may increase the cost of energy use in certain of our chemical and other manufacturing operations. While future emission regulations or new laws appear likely, it is too early to predict how these regulations, if and when adopted, will affect our businesses, operations, liquidity or financial results. A substantial portion of our sales is dependent upon a limited number of customers. During 2009, eight customers of our Chemical Business accounted for approximately 50% of its net sales and 24% of our consolidated sales, and our Climate Control Business had four customers (including affiliates and their distributors) that accounted for approximately 27% of its net sales and 13% of our consolidated sales. The loss of, or a material reduction in purchase levels by, one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity if we are unable to replace a customer on substantially similar terms. There is intense competition in the Climate Control and Chemical industries. Substantially all of the markets in which we participate are highly competitive with respect to product quality, price, design innovations, distribution, service, warranties, reliability and efficiency. We compete with a number of companies that have greater financial, marketing and other resources. Competitive factors could require us to reduce prices or increase spending on product development, marketing and sales that would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Potential increase of imported ammonium nitrate from Russia. In 2000, the United States (“U.S.”) and Russia entered into a suspension agreement limiting the quantity of, and setting the minimum prices for, fertilizer grade AN sold from Russia into the U.S. The Russians have requested that the suspension agreement be changed to only require that the prices of its imported AN reflect the Russian producers full production costs, plus profit. The Russian producers of AN could benefit from state set prices of natural gas, the principal raw material for AN, which could be less than what U.S. producers are required to pay for their natural gas. Other factors, however, such as transportation costs may partially offset natural gas and production cost advantages. This change, if accepted by the U.S., could result in a substantial increase in the amount of AN imported into the U.S. from Russia at prices that could be less than the cost to produce AN by U.S. producers plus a profit. Russia is the world’s largest producer of fertilizer grade AN, and we are led to believe that it has substantial excess AN production capacity. For 2009, net sales of fertilizer grade AN accounted for 24% and 12% of our Chemical Business net sales and consolidated net sales, respectively. If the suspension agreement is changed, as discussed above, this change could result in Russia substantially increasing the amount of AN 22 Table of Contents sold in the U.S. at prices less than the U.S. producers are required to charge in order to cover their cost plus a profit, and could have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Potential increase of imported urea ammonium nitrate (UAN). A large percentage of the domestic UAN market is supplied by imports. Significant additional UAN production in the Caribbean is expected to begin in 2010, and such UAN production is expected to be marketed in the United States. This increased foreign production of UAN is expected to have a lower cost of production than UAN produced in the United States, and could have an adverse impact on the domestic UAN market, and the domestic fertilizer market in general, including the UAN and fertilizer markets of our Chemical Business, by increasing supply and possibly reducing prices. We are effectively controlled by the Golsen Group. Jack E. Golsen, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), members of his immediate family (spouse and children), including Barry H. Golsen, our Vice Chairman and President, entities owned by them and trusts for which they possess voting or dispositive power as trustee (collectively, the “Golsen Group”) beneficially owned as of February 28, 2010, an aggregate of 3,594,843 shares of our common stock and 1,020,000 shares of our voting preferred stock (1,000,000 of which shares have .875 votes per share, or 875,000 votes), which together votes as a class and represent approximately 20.3% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding voting securities as of that date. In addition, the Golsen Group also beneficially owned options and other convertible securities that allowed its members to acquire an additional 208,500 shares of our common stock within 60 days of February 28, 2010. Thus, the Golsen Group may be considered to effectively control us. As a result, the ability of other stockholders to influence our management and policies could be limited. Loss of key personnel could negatively affect our business. We believe that our performance has been and will continue to be dependent upon the efforts of our principal executive officers. We cannot promise you that our principal executive officers will continue to be available. Jack E. Golsen has an employment agreement with us. No other principal executive has an employment agreement with us. The loss of some of our principal executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We may have inadequate insurance. While we maintain liability insurance, including certain coverage for environmental contamination, it is subject to coverage limits and policies may exclude coverage for some types of damages (which may include warranty and product liability claims). Although there may currently be sources from which such coverage may be obtained, it may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or the possible types of liabilities that may be incurred by us may not be covered by our insurance. In addition, our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies or the dollar amount of the liabilities may 23 Table of Contents exceed our policy limits. Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our insurance policies are written by Chartis, Inc., a subsidiary of AIG, and AIG has experienced and is continuing to experience financial difficulties. It has been publicly reported that American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”) has experienced significant financial difficulties and is continuing to experience significant financial difficulties. AIG is a holding company for several different subsidiary insurance companies, which are now known as Chartis, Inc. Chartis provides many of our casualty, workers compensation and other insurance policies, including, but not limited to, our general liability policy, which includes certain pollution coverage, excess umbrella policy, and officer and director liability policy covering us and our officers and directors against certain securities’ law claims. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings in which a subsidiary of AIG has agreed to defend and to indemnify us and our subsidiaries against loss under a reservation of rights, including one matter involving one of our executive officers. In the event of a failure of AIG and/or its subsidiaries, it is unknown whether AIG or the applicable subsidiary that is the insurer under our policies or the applicable regulatory authorities can comply with the insurer’s obligations under our policies. Further, in the event of a failure by AIG and/or its subsidiaries, we could be required to replace these policies. If it becomes necessary to replace the policies written by Chartis, it may be difficult or impossible to replace these policies or, if we can replace these policies, to replace them on substantially similar terms as our existing insurance policies. We have not paid dividends on our outstanding common stock in many years. Although we have paid dividends on our outstanding series of preferred stock (two of the three outstanding series of preferred stock are owned by the Golsen Group), we have not paid cash dividends on our outstanding common stock in many years, and we do not currently anticipate paying cash dividends on our outstanding common stock. However, our board of directors has not made a decision whether or not to pay such dividends in 2010. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, and natural disasters (such as hurricanes, pandemic health crisis, etc.), have and could negatively impact U.S. and foreign companies, the financial markets, the industries where we operate, our operations and profitability. Terrorist attacks and natural disasters (such as hurricanes) have in the past, and can in the future, negatively affect our operations. We cannot predict further terrorist attacks and natural disasters in the U.S. and elsewhere. These attacks or natural disasters have contributed to economic instability in the U.S. and elsewhere, and further acts of terrorism, violence, war or natural disasters could further affect the industries where we operate, our ability to purchase raw materials, our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, terrorist attacks and natural disasters may directly impact our physical facilities, especially our chemical facilities, or those of our suppliers or customers and could impact our sales, our production capability and our ability to deliver products to our customers. In the past, hurricanes affecting 24 Table of Contents the Gulf Coast of the U.S. have negatively impacted our operations and those of our customers. The consequences of any terrorist attacks or hostilities or natural disasters are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our operations. We are a holding company and depend, in large part, on receiving funds from our subsidiaries to fund our indebtedness. Because we are a holding company and operations are conducted through our subsidiaries, principally ThermaClime and its subsidiaries, our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends, in large part, on the operating performance and cash flows of our subsidiaries and the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions and pay dividends to us. Under its loan agreements, ThermaClime and its subsidiaries may only make distributions and pay dividends to us under limited circumstances and in limited amounts. Our net operating loss carryforwards are subject to certain limitations and examination. We had generated significant net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards from certain historical losses. During recent years, we have utilized all of the remaining federal NOL carryforwards and a portion of our state NOL carryforwards. The utilization of these NOL carryforwards has reduced our income tax liabilities. The federal tax returns for 1997 through 2005 remain subject to examination for the purpose of determining the amount of remaining tax NOL and other carryforwards. With few exceptions, the 2006-2008 years remain open for all purposes of examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other major tax jurisdictions. Future issuance or potential issuance of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock, our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings and dilute your percentage interest in our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale will have on the trading price of our common stock. Such future sales could also significantly reduce the percentage ownership of our existing common stockholders. We are subject to a variety of factors that could discourage other parties from attempting to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors and, except in limited circumstances, a two-thirds vote of outstanding voting shares to approve a merger, consolidation or sale of all, or substantially all, of our assets. In addition, we have entered into severance agreements with our executive officers and some of the executive officers of our subsidiaries that provide, among other things, that if, within a specified period of time after the occurrence of a change in control of our company, these officers are terminated, other than for cause, or the officer terminates his employment for good reason, we must pay such officer an amount equal to 2.9 times the officer’s average annual gross salary for the last five years preceding the change in control. 25 Table of Contents We have authorized and unissued (including shares held in treasury) 53,774,267 shares of common stock and 4,229,490 shares of preferred stock as of December 31, 2009. These unissued shares could be used by our management to make it more difficult, and thereby discourage an attempt to acquire control of us. We have adopted a preferred share purchase plan, which is designed to protect us against certain creeping acquisitions, open market purchases and certain mergers and other combinations with acquiring companies. The foregoing provisions and agreements are designed to discourage a third party tender offer, proxy contest, or other attempts to acquire control of us and could have the effect of making it more difficult to remove incumbent management. Delaware has adopted an anti-takeover law which, among other things, will delay for three years business combinations with acquirers of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of publicly-held companies (such as us), unless; · prior to such time the board of directors of the corporation approved the business combination that results in the stockholder becoming an invested stockholder; · the acquirer owned at least 85% of the outstanding voting stock of such company prior to commencement of the transaction; · two-thirds of the stockholders, other than the acquirer, vote to approve the business combination after approval thereof by the board of directors; or · the stockholders of the corporation amends its articles of incorporation or by-laws electing not to be governed by this provision. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 