ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the events described below were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be affected adversely. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Volatility in raw material prices could reduce our profitability, and reductions in the availability of raw material supplies could disrupt our operations. Most of the raw materials that we use are feedstocks derived from petroleum and petrochemicals, such as crude oil and natural gas, which have been subject to historical periods of rapid and significant movements in price. These fluctuations in price could be influenced by political instability, terrorist attacks or other hostilities in oil-producing countries or elsewhere in the world, and supply and demand factors, including OPEC production quotas, global demand for petroleum-based products or shutdown of production facilities. In addition, the implementation of climate change legislation could increase the cost of raw materials. We also use natural gas as fuel at our facilities, and increases in the price of natural gas may reduce our profitability. Any significant variations in the cost and availability of our specialty and commodity materials or energy may affect negatively our business, financial condition or results of operations. We typically do not enter into hedging arrangements with respect to raw materials or energy, other than for natural gas. In response to price changes of raw materials, we change prices to our customers from time to time to manage our margins. However, we cannot always raise prices in response to higher raw material costs, and any limitation on our ability to do so could affect adversely our financial performance. We use significant quantities of a variety of specialty and commodity chemicals in our manufacturing processes, such as lubricant base oils (a derivative of crude oil); C4 feedstreams; acrylates; PVC; inorganic acids, bases and oxides; alcohols, glycols and polyols; olefins and esters; sulfonates; phenates; alkylates; sulfonic acids; and amines. These raw materials generally are available from numerous independent suppliers; however, some of our raw material needs are met by a sole supplier or only a few suppliers. If any supplier that we rely on for raw materials ceases or limits production, we may incur significant additional costs, including capital costs, in order to find alternate, reliable raw material suppliers. We also may experience significant production delays while locating new supply sources. Some of our businesses are cyclical and demand by our customers for our products weakens during economic downturns. Approximately 79% of our product sales are attributable to markets, such as transportation, construction and industrial, that historically have been cyclical and sensitive to changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions. The demand for our products depends, in part, on the general economic conditions of the industries or national economies of our customers. It is not possible to predict accurately the factors that will affect demand for our products in the future. In a declining economic environment, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover as well. Economic weakness in the United States, Europe, China and other regions has resulted and may continue to result in a reduction of sales by our customers and us, which has and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a majority of our revenues are concentrated in the transportation and industrial lubricant industries, changes in economic and industry conditions could affect adversely our results of operations. Approximately 72% of our consolidated revenues are related to the transportation and industrial lubricant business. This concentration of business affects our overall risk as our customers will be affected similarly by changes in economic and industry conditions. A sudden or protracted downturn in these industries could affect adversely our results of operations. We face competition from other chemical companies, which could affect adversely our business, financial condition and results of operations. We actively compete with companies producing the same or similar products and, in some instances, with companies producing different products designed for the same uses. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation, technical support, product recognition and quality, depending on the product involved. For some of our products, our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources and less debt. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within the industries in which we operate, a change in the prices of raw materials or a change in the economy as a whole. We expect our competitors to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, and these products could cause a decline in market acceptance of our products. Current and future consolidation among our competitors and customers also may cause a loss of market share as well as put downward pressure on pricing. Our competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of our products as a result of intensified price competition. Additionally, a number of our niche product applications are customized or sold for highly specialized uses. Competitive pressures also can result in the loss of major customers. If we cannot compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be affected adversely. THE LUBRIZOL CORPORATION 9 Table of Contents Failure to make continued improvements in our technology and productivity could hurt our competitive position. We believe that we must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities in order to continue to be a market leader. We also believe that we must continue to make improvements in our productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. When we invest in new technologies, processes or production facilities, we face risks related to construction delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations. Our and our suppliers’ production facilities are subject to operating risks that could affect adversely our business or results of operations. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our and our suppliers’ production facilities. These production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of a variety of reactive, explosive and flammable materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unscheduled downtime and environmental hazards. As some of our operations are located in the U.S. Gulf Coast, major hurricanes in recent years have affected our ability to operate. Incidents at our or our suppliers’ production facilities could shut down temporarily or otherwise disrupt our manufacturing operations, causing production delays and, with respect to our facilities, resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. In addition, some of our and our suppliers’ production facilities are highly specialized, which limits our ability to shift production to other facilities in the event of an incident at a particular facility. If a production facility, or a critical portion of a production facility, were shut down temporarily, we likely would incur higher costs for alternate means of production, sources of supply for our products and production delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or to successfully resolve claims of infringement brought against us, our product sales and financial performance could be affected adversely. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, nondisclosure agreements and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights in our various lines of business. Our performance may depend in part on our ability to establish, protect and enforce intellectual property rights with respect to our patented technologies and proprietary rights and to defend against any claims of infringement, which involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, we may not be able to protect the value of some of our intellectual property. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we have been using or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. If we are unable to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, we may be forced to cease selling or using the products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and may be time-consuming if possible. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of some of our resources. Our intellectual property rights may not have the value we believe them to have, which could result in a competitive disadvantage or affect adversely our business and financial performance. We may not be able to complete future acquisitions or successfully integrate future acquisitions into our business, which could affect adversely our business or results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions and joint venture opportunities. Successful accomplishment of this objective may be limited by the availability and suitability of acquisition candidates and by our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulty determining appropriate valuation, integrating operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired lines or businesses, personnel turnover and the diversion of management’s attention from other business matters. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits from these acquisitions in the timeframe that we anticipate, or at all, which could affect adversely our business or results of operations. We face numerous risks relating to our foreign operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls and currency devaluations, which may affect adversely our results of operations or cash flow. In 2009, approximately 40% of our consolidated revenues, 30% of our consolidated cost of sales and 30% of selling, technical, administrative and research (STAR) expenses were generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. We recognize foreign currency gains and losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and may continue to cause fluctuations in our reported results of operations. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of exchange rates. 10 THE LUBRIZOL CORPORATION Table of Contents We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation and, if they occur or continue for significant periods, could affect adversely our results of operations or cash flow. Failure to implement our common information system platform successfully could impact negatively our ability to conduct business, particularly in our Lubrizol Advanced Materials segment. We launched a company-wide initiative in 2006 to extend our current information system platform to the entire organization so that our core business processes are integrated globally. We successfully rolled out the system to our North American and European locations of the Lubrizol Advanced Materials segment in 2008 and 2009. However, we still are in the process of implementing the system at other locations within the Lubrizol Advanced Materials segment and to several locations within the Lubrizol Additives segment. We consider the risk to be low that our information system implementation may disrupt significantly our business processes and impact our ability to serve customers. However, we face the risks that the common information system platform will not be completed on a timely basis, it may cost more than projected or we may not realize its anticipated benefits. International social, political and economic conditions could affect adversely our operating performance. Our international operations also are subject to the risk of labor unrest, regional economic uncertainty, political instability, terrorism, expropriation of property, restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country, trade restrictions, export duties, taxes and quotas, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs and current and changing regulatory environments. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our international operations in the future by reducing the demand for our products, making our products less competitive by increasing the prices at which we can sell our products or otherwise having an adverse effect on our operating performance. Our production facilities could be targets for terrorism, and any attack could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur significant costs and liabilities. The potential or actual occurrence of terrorist attacks could affect our operations in unpredictable ways. Our chemical production facilities could become direct targets, or indirect casualties, of terrorist attacks. Although our production facilities are under a heightened level of security, this level of security may not prevent a terrorist attack. The resulting damage could be severe and could include loss of life and property damage. In addition, some of our production and other facilities are located at sites near other chemical plants that could be potential targets of terrorist attacks. The resulting collateral damage could be significant and substantial. Available insurance coverage could be insufficient to cover all of the damage incurred or could be prohibitively expensive. We could incur costs and liabilities as a result of the numerous environmental laws applicable to our operations that are greater than we anticipate, which could affect adversely our results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, safety and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. We also are required to maintain various environmental permits and licenses, many of which require periodic modification and renewal. Due to the volume and complexity of the laws and regulations that apply to our operations and the challenges of implementing effective compliance programs, we risk violating those laws and regulations and thereby incurring cleanup costs, substantial fines and criminal sanctions. In addition, these requirements and their enforcement may become more stringent in the future. Although we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with any federal, state and foreign environmental, safety and health laws and regulations, the costs could be significant. Non-compliance could subject us to significant liabilities, such as government fines, third-party lawsuits or the suspension of non-compliant operations. We also may be required to make significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future developments also could restrict or eliminate the use of or require us to make modifications to our products, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. At any given time, we are involved in claims, litigation, administrative proceedings and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving potential environmental liabilities, including cleanup costs associated with hazardous waste disposal sites, natural resource damages, property damage and personal injury. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. Under certain environmental laws, we can be held strictly liable for all costs associated with hazardous substance contamination of any real property we have ever owned, operated or used as a disposal site or for THE LUBRIZOL CORPORATION 11 Table of Contents natural resource damages associated with such contamination. We also may face liability with respect to acquired businesses for violations of environmental laws that occurred prior to the date of our acquisition, and some or all of these liabilities may not be covered by indemnification from the sellers from whom we acquired the businesses. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. Some of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or participate in work councils, and the failure to renew these agreements or maintain these relationships could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs. Employees at three of our U.S. sites, who constitute approximately 6% of our domestic employees, are organized by labor unions that have collective bargaining agreements with us that are subject to renegotiation. Two facilities have agreements expiring in 2010. In addition, the majority of our European employees are participants in works councils, which are entities that represent employees and are entitled to information and consultation rights on some matters. Our European employees also may participate in unions or industry-wide collective bargaining agreements, and we currently have one facility in Belgium that is renegotiating its union agreement. Although we believe that our present labor relations are good, our failure to renew these agreements on reasonable terms as the current agreements expire or maintain our relationships with work councils could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs, which could affect adversely our financial performance. FINANCIAL RISKS We may not have access to capital in the future due to changes in general economic conditions. We may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness. Any sustained weakness in general economic conditions and/or financial markets in the United States or globally could affect adversely our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. From time to time we have relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Our access to funds under our revolving credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to those facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those financial institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity, or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Moreover, the obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facilities are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. Longer term volatility and continued disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives or failure of significant financial institutions could affect adversely our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. Such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. The disruptions in the capital and credit markets also have resulted in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. Continuation of these disruptions would increase our interest expense and capital costs and could affect adversely our results of operations and financial position, including our ability to grow the business through acquisitions. We could be affected adversely if our debt is downgraded. Our ability to complete offerings of debt securities on satisfactory terms in the future will depend on the status of our credit rating. The current rating of our senior unsecured long-term indebtedness is BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group (S&P) and Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s). Either S&P or Moody’s or both may downgrade our credit rating at any time, which could increase our interest obligations under some of our borrowings. In addition, downgrades of our credit rating could make it more difficult to complete offerings of debt securities on satisfactory terms and generally would result in increased future borrowing costs under our credit facilities and affect adversely our access to debt and capital markets. The limits imposed on us by the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities could prevent us from making acquisitions or capital improvements or cause us to lose access to these facilities, and if we are unable to obtain necessary waivers and our debt is accelerated, our financial condition could be affected adversely. Our existing credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • borrow money or guarantee the debts of others; • use assets as security in other transactions; • materially change the nature of our business; and • sell assets or merge with or into other companies. 12 THE LUBRIZOL CORPORATION Table of Contents In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet financial ratios, including debt to consolidated earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring non-cash gains or losses, including the sale of property and equipment and goodwill impairments, and non-cash gains and losses from less than wholly owned subsidiaries and investments (Consolidated EBITDA) (as defined in the credit agreements) and Consolidated EBITDA to interest expense. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our credit facilities will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we will be in default, and the maturity of the related debt could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. We may be required to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain compliance under our credit facilities, including waivers with respect to our compliance with certain financial covenants. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt under our credit facilities is accelerated, our financial condition would be affected adversely. We may be impacted adversely by increased costs related to our defined benefit pension plans. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans for employees in the United States and various foreign locations. The major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. Changes in regulatory requirements or the market value of plan assets, investment returns, interest rates and mortality rates may affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have an adverse effect on our financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS At this time, we have no unresolved SEC staff comments. 