ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the events described below were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be affected adversely. Volatility in raw material prices could reduce our profitability, and reductions in the availability of raw material supplies could disrupt our operations. Most of the raw materials that we use are feedstocks derived from petroleum and petrochemicals, such as crude oil and natural gas, which have been subject to historical periods of rapid and significant movements in price. These fluctuations in price could be influenced by political instability, terrorist attacks or other hostilities in oil-producing countries or elsewhere in the world. Prices also could be affected by supply and demand factors, such as OPEC production quotas, global demand for petroleum-based products or shutdown of production facilities. We also use natural gas as fuel at our facilities, and increases in the price of natural gas may reduce our profitability. In addition, the implementation of climate change legislation could increase the cost of raw materials. Any significant increases in the cost of our specialty and commodity materials or energy may affect negatively our business, financial condition or results of operations. A reduction in, or lack of availability of, raw materials or interruptions in the supply chain also could impact our profitability to the extent that we are required to pay higher prices for, or are unable to secure adequate supplies of, the necessary raw materials. We typically do not enter into hedging arrangements with respect to raw materials or energy, other than for natural gas. In response to price changes of raw materials, we change prices to our customers from time to time to manage our margins. However, we may not be able to raise prices in response to higher raw material costs. We use significant quantities of a variety of specialty and commodity chemicals in our manufacturing processes, such as lubricant base oils (a derivative of crude oil); C4 feedstreams; acrylates; PVC; inorganic acids, bases and oxides; alcohols, glycols and polyols; olefins and esters; sulfonates; phenates; alkylates; sulfonic acids; and amines. These raw materials generally are available from numerous independent suppliers; however, some of our raw material needs are met by a sole supplier or only a few suppliers. If any supplier that we rely on for raw materials ceases or limits production, we may incur significant additional costs, including capital costs, in order to find alternate, reliable raw material suppliers. We also may experience significant production delays while locating new supply sources. All of these events could affect negatively our business and results of operations. As a majority of our revenues are concentrated in the Lubrizol Additives segment, material changes in economic conditions in the markets served by our customers could affect adversely our results of operations. Approximately 72% of our consolidated revenues are related to the transportation and industrial lubricant business. This concentration of business affects our overall risk as our customers will be affected similarly by changes in economic conditions. A sudden or protracted downturn in these industries could affect adversely our results of operations. We face competition from other chemical companies. We actively compete with companies producing the same or similar products and, in some instances, with companies producing different products designed for the same uses. Depending on the product involved, we encounter competition in product innovation, delivery, quality, service, performance, price, technical support and product recognition. For some of our products, we face competition from larger companies that have greater financial resources. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within the markets in which we operate, a change in the prices of raw materials or a change in the economy as a whole. We expect our competitors to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, and these products could cause a reduction in the market acceptance of our products. Current and future consolidation among our competitors and customers also may cause a loss of market share as well as put downward pressure on pricing. Our competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of our products through intensified price competition. Additionally, a number of our niche product applications are customized or sold for highly specialized uses. We generated approximately 39% of our consolidated revenues in 2010 from our 10 largest customers. If we lose business from our major customers due to competitive factors, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be affected adversely. The markets for some of our products are cyclical and demand weakens during economic downturns. We believe that less than 50% of our product sales are attributable to products that are cyclical and sensitive to changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions. These sales primarily consist of end-use applications in industrial, vehicle production and construction markets. The demand for these products depends, in part, on the general economic conditions of the industries served by our customers. It is not possible to predict accurately the factors that will affect demand for these products in the future. While we experienced strengthening global customer demand for our products during 2010 and continuing volume recovery since the global recession, if the recovery stalls or the economic environment declines, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive THE LUBRIZOL CORPORATION 9 Table of Contents pricing pressure and customer turnover. Economic weakness in the United States, Europe and other regions has resulted and may continue to result in a reduction of sales by our customers and us, which has and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to make continued improvements in our technology and productivity to respond to the changing needs of our customers could hurt our competitive position. We believe that we must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved performance capabilities and with specifications that meet the changing needs of our customers in order to continue to be a market leader. We also believe that we must continue to make improvements in our technology and productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. We devote a substantial amount of our resources to develop new and highly formulated products, and to invest in new technologies, processes and production facilities. We face risks related to our ability to continue to meet changing product performance standards and related to delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties that could occur in the development of new products and in the construction of new facilities, such as our new plant in southern China. Failure to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations. Our and our suppliers’ production facilities are subject to operating risks. We depend on the continued safe operation of our and our suppliers’ production facilities. These production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of a variety of reactive, explosive and flammable materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unscheduled downtime and environmental hazards. Incidents such as these at our or our suppliers’ production facilities could shut down temporarily or otherwise disrupt our manufacturing operations, causing production delays and, with respect to our facilities, resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. In addition, some of our and our suppliers’ production facilities are highly specialized, which limits our ability to shift production or sourcing to other facilities in the event of an incident at our or a supplier’s facility. Further, our ability to operate facilities in the U.S. Gulf Coast has been affected by major hurricanes in recent years. If a production facility, or a critical portion of a production facility, were shut down temporarily, we likely would incur higher costs for alternate means of production, sources of supply for our products and production delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Excess capacity within the lubricant additives industry could impact us negatively. We are building a new additives manufacturing facility in southern China, which we will phase in over the next several years to meet lubricant demand growth in Asia. If our competitors or new entrants add large-scale capacity, the balance of supply relative to demand within the lubricant additives industry may be impacted significantly. This may disrupt industry balances and result in downward pressure on prices, which could impact negatively our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or to resolve successfully claims of infringement brought against us, our product sales and business could be affected adversely. Our business depends in part on our ability to establish, protect, safeguard and enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights and to defend against any claims of infringement, both of which involve complex legal, scientific and factual uncertainties. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law and security measures to protect our intellectual property, but effective intellectual property protection may not be available in all places that we sell our products or services. In addition, we use nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our proprietary technology and know-how. If these agreements are breached or our intellectual property is otherwise misappropriated, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. If any of these measures are unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property, our business may be affected adversely. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we have been using or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. If we are unable to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, we may be forced to cease selling or using the products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and may be time-consuming if possible. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and affect adversely our business and financial condition. International social, political and economic conditions could affect us adversely. Our international operations are subject to the risk of labor unrest, regional economic uncertainty, political instability, terrorism, expropriation of property, restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country, trade restrictions, export duties, taxes and quotas, domestic 10 THE LUBRIZOL CORPORATION Table of Contents and foreign customs and tariffs and current and changing regulatory environments. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our operations in the future by reducing the demand for our products, making our products less competitive by increasing the prices at which we can sell our products or otherwise having an adverse effect on our operating performance. We may not be able to complete or successfully integrate future acquisitions into our business. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions and joint venture opportunities. Our ability to accomplish this objective may be limited by the availability of, and competition for, suitable acquisition candidates and by our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulty determining appropriate valuation, difficulty integrating operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired lines or businesses, personnel turnover, the diversion of management’s attention from other business matters and the possibility of increased leverage and the consequential difficulty in repaying that indebtedness. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits from acquisitions in the timeframe that we expect, if at all, which could affect adversely our business or results of operations. Our production facilities could be targets for terrorism, and any attack could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur significant costs and liabilities. The potential or actual occurrence of terrorist attacks could affect our operations in unpredictable ways. Our chemical production facilities could become direct targets, or indirect casualties, of terrorist attacks. Although our production facilities are under a heightened level of security, this level of security may not prevent a terrorist attack. The resulting damage could be severe and could include loss of life and property damage. In addition, some of our production and other facilities are located at sites near other chemical plants that could be potential targets of terrorist attacks. The resulting collateral damage could be significant and substantial. Available insurance coverage could be insufficient to cover all of the damage incurred or could be prohibitively expensive, and losses from these events could affect negatively our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could incur costs and liabilities as a result of the numerous environmental laws applicable to our operations that are greater than we anticipate. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, safety and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials. We also are required to maintain various environmental permits and licenses, many of which require periodic modification and renewal. Due to the volume and complexity of the laws and regulations that apply to our operations and the challenges of implementing effective compliance programs, we risk violating those laws and regulations and thereby incurring cleanup costs, substantial fines and criminal sanctions. We also may be required to make significant operational modifications at substantial cost. These requirements and their enforcement may become more stringent in the future. In addition, future developments also could restrict or prohibit the use of or require us to make modifications to our products. At any given time, we are involved in claims, litigation, administrative proceedings and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving potential environmental liabilities, including cleanup costs associated with hazardous waste disposal sites, natural resource damage, property damage and personal injury. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. Under certain environmental laws, we can be held strictly liable for all costs associated with hazardous substance contamination of any real property we have ever owned, operated or used as a disposal site or for natural resource damages associated with such contamination. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and liability for third-party claims, as a result of liabilities under various environmental laws, which could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be affected adversely if our debt is downgraded. Downgrades of our credit rating could affect adversely our access to debt and capital markets, making it more difficult to complete offerings of debt securities on satisfactory terms in the future. In addition, a downgrade in our credit rating by either Standard & Poor’s or by Moody’s Investors Service could result in increased future borrowing costs under our credit facilities, thus negatively affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. The limits imposed by the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities could prevent us from making acquisitions or capital improvements or cause us to lose access to these facilities, and if we are unable to obtain necessary waivers and our debt is accelerated, our financial condition could be affected adversely. Our existing credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • borrow money or guarantee the debts of others; • use assets as security in other transactions; THE LUBRIZOL CORPORATION 11 Table of Contents • materially change the nature of our business; and • sell assets or merge with or into other companies. In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet financial ratios, including debt to consolidated earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring non-cash gains or losses, including the sale of property and equipment and goodwill impairments, and non-cash gains and losses from less than wholly owned subsidiaries and investments (Consolidated EBITDA) (as defined in the credit agreements) and Consolidated EBITDA to interest expense. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and otherwise could restrict our financing activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our credit facilities will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we will be in default, and the maturity of the related debt could be accelerated and become due and payable immediately. We may be required to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain compliance under our credit facilities, including waivers with respect to our compliance with certain financial covenants. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt under our credit facilities is accelerated, our financial condition would be affected adversely. We face risks relating to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls and currency devaluations. In 2010, approximately 40% of our consolidated revenues, 30% of consolidated cost of sales and 30% of selling, technical, administrative and research (STAR) expenses were generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. We recognize foreign currency gains and losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and may continue to cause fluctuations in our reported results of operations. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of exchange rates. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation and, if they occur or continue for significant periods, could affect adversely our cash flow or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS At this time, we have no unresolved SEC staff comments. 