ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. The risks described below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business. Financial Risks The limits imposed on us by the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities could prevent us from making acquisitions or capital improvements or cause us to lose access to these facilities. Our existing credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • borrow money or guarantee the debts of others; • use assets as security in other transactions; • change our business or enter into new lines of business; and • sell assets or merge with or into other companies. In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet financial ratios, including debt to consolidated earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) (as defined in the credit facilities) and consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit facilities) to interest expense. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our credit facilities will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we will be in default and the maturity of the related debt could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. We may be required to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain compliance under our credit facilities, including waivers with respect to our compliance with certain financial covenants. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt under our credit facilities is accelerated, our financial condition would be adversely affected. We may not have access to capital in the future. We may need new or additional financing in the future to expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness. If we are unable to access capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, we may not be able to expand our business or meet our payment requirements under our existing credit facilities. Our ability to obtain new or additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to obtain new or additional financing because we have substantial debt or because we may not have sufficient cash flow to service or repay our existing or future debt. In addition, depending on market conditions and our financial performance, equity financing may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. We could be adversely affected if our debt is downgraded. Our ability to complete offerings of debt securities on satisfactory terms in the future will depend on the status of our credit rating. The current rating of our senior unsecured long-term indebtedness is BBB- by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group (S&P) and Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s). Either S&P or Moody’s or both may downgrade our credit rating at any time, which would make it more difficult to complete offerings of debt securities on satisfactory terms and generally would result in increased future borrowing costs and adversely affect our access to debt and capital markets. 14 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Business Volatility in raw material prices could reduce our profitability and reductions in the availability of raw material supplies could disrupt our operations. Some of the raw materials that we use are derived from petrochemical-based feedstocks, such as crude oil and natural gas, which have been subject to historical periods of rapid and significant movements in price. These fluctuations in price could be aggravated by political instability, terrorist attacks or other hostilities in oil-producing countries or elsewhere in the world, and supply and demand factors, including OPEC production quotas and increased global demand for petroleum-based products. We also use natural gas as fuel at our facilities, and increases in the price of natural gas may reduce our profitability. Any significant variations in the cost and availability of our specialty and commodity materials or energy may negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We typically do not enter into hedging arrangements with respect to raw materials or energy, other than for natural gas and electricity. We selectively pass changes in the prices of raw materials to our customers from time to time. However, we cannot always do so, and any limitation on our ability to pass through any price increases could affect our financial performance. We use significant quantities of a variety of specialty and commodity chemicals in our manufacturing processes, such as lubricant base oils (a derivative of crude oil); C4 feedstreams; acrylates; PVC; inorganic acids, bases and oxides; alcohols, glycols and polyols; olefins and esters; sulfonates; phenates; alkylates; sulfonic acids; and amines. These raw materials generally are available from numerous independent suppliers. However, some of our raw material needs are met by a sole supplier or only a few suppliers. If any supplier that we rely on for raw materials ceases or limits production, we may incur significant additional costs, including capital costs, in order to find alternate, reliable raw material suppliers. We may also experience significant production delays while locating new supply sources. We face competition from other chemical companies, which could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. We actively compete with companies producing the same or similar products and, in some instances, with companies producing different products designed for the same uses. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation and product recognition and quality, depending on the product involved. For some of our products, our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources and less debt than we do. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within the industries in which we operate, a change in the prices of raw materials or a change in the economy as a whole. Our competitors can be expected to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, which could cause a decline in market acceptance of our products. Current and future consolidation among our competitors and customers also may cause a loss of market share as well as put downward pressure on pricing. Additionally, a number of our niche product applications are customized or sold for highly specialized uses. Our competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of our products as a result of intensified price competition. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. If we cannot compete successfully, our business, financial condition and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to make continued improvements in our technology and productivity could hurt our competitive position. We believe that we must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities in order to continue to be a market leader. We also believe that we must continue to make improvements in our productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. When we invest in new technologies, processes or production facilities, we face risks related to construction delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated results of operations. Our and our suppliers’ production facilities are subject to operating risks that may adversely affect our operations. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our and our suppliers’ production facilities. These production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural 15 Table of Contents disasters, unscheduled downtime and environmental hazards. Incidents at our or our suppliers’ production facilities could temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt our manufacturing operations, causing production delays and, with respect to our facilities, resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. In addition, some of our and our suppliers’ production facilities are highly specialized, which limits our ability to shift production to other facilities in the event of an incident at a particular facility. If a production facility, or a critical portion of a production facility, were temporarily shut down, we likely would incur higher costs for alternate sources of supply for our products. Some of our products involve the manufacture and/or handling of a variety of reactive, explosive and flammable materials. Use of these products by our customers also could result in liability if an explosion, fire, spill or other accident were to occur. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these types of incidents in the future or that these incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some of our businesses are cyclical and demand by our customers for our products weakens during economic downturns. A portion of our product sales is attributable to industries and markets, such as the construction and metalworking industries, that historically have been cyclical and sensitive to relative changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions. The demand for our products depends, in part, on the general economic conditions of the industries or national economies of our customers. Downward economic cycles in our customers’ industries or countries may reduce sales of some of our products. It is not possible to predict accurately the factors that will affect demand for our products in the future. Any significant downturn in the health of the general economy, either globally or regionally, or the markets in which we sell products could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial performance. Failure to implement our common information system platform successfully could negatively impact our ability to integrate our core business processes. In 2006 we launched a company-wide initiative to extend our current information system platform to the entire organization so that our core business processes are integrated globally. We successfully implemented a common information system platform in 1998 and now we have begun rolling out the system to the acquired Lubrizol Advanced Materials segment and to those parts of Lubrizol Additives that are not yet utilizing it. Currently, this substantial investment is progressing on schedule; we expect to have more than 75% of our revenue base utilizing the same information system platform by mid-2008 and anticipate completing the migration to our entire company by mid-2009. We consider the risk to be low that our information system implementation may significantly disrupt our business processes and impact our ability to serve customers. We essentially are implementing an existing design of the system that has worked for the past six years in our Lubrizol Additives segment. Moreover, we have put together a seasoned project management team. However, we face the risks that the common information system platform will not be completed on a timely basis, it may cost more than projected or we may not realize its anticipated benefits. We face numerous risks relating to our foreign operations, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls and currency devaluations, that may adversely affect our results of operations. In 2006 approximately 33% of our consolidated revenues were generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency, and 31% of our consolidated cost of sales and 30% of STAR expenses were generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We recognize foreign currency transaction gains and losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which historically have been material and could continue to be material. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. We take actions to manage our foreign currency exposure such as entering into hedging transactions, where available, but we cannot assure you that our strategies will adequately protect our consolidated operating results from the effects of exchange rate fluctuations. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency 16 Table of Contents devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation and, if they occur or continue for significant periods, could adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. International social, political and economic conditions may adversely affect our operating performance. Our international operations are also subject to the risk of labor unrest, regional economic uncertainty, political instability, terrorism, expropriation of property, restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country, trade restrictions, export duties, taxes and quotas, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, and current and changing regulatory environments. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our international operations in the future by reducing the demand for our products, increasing the prices at which we can sell our products or otherwise having an adverse effect on our operating performance. Our production facilities are of the type that may attract terrorist attacks, and any attack may disrupt our operations and cause us to incur significant costs and liabilities. Uncertainty surrounding the possibility and scope of terrorist attacks may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including the possibility that our chemical production facilities may become direct targets, or indirect casualties, of terrorist attacks. Although our production facilities are under a heightened level of security, this level of security may be insufficient to prevent a terrorist attack. The resulting damage may be severe and could include loss of life and property damage. In addition, some of our production and other facilities are located at sites near to other chemical plants that may be potential targets of terrorist attacks. The resulting collateral damage may be significant and substantial. Available insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of the damage incurred or may be prohibitively expensive. Certain of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and the failure to renew these agreements could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs. Employees at three of our U.S. sites, who constitute approximately 4% of our domestic employees, are organized by labor unions that have collective bargaining agreements with us that are subject to renegotiation. Five agreements covering two plants expire in 2007 and one agreement expires in 2008. Although we believe that our present labor relations are satisfactory, our failure to renew these agreements on reasonable terms as the current agreements expire could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs, which could adversely affect our financial performance. The applicability of numerous environmental laws to our manufacturing facilities could cause us to incur significant costs and liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, safety and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. Under certain environmental laws, we can be held strictly liable for hazardous substance contamination of any real property we have ever owned, operated or used as a disposal site or for natural resource damages associated with such contamination. We are also required to maintain various environmental permits and licenses, many of which require periodic modification and renewal. Our operations entail the risk of violations of those laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with all of these requirements. In addition, these requirements and their enforcement may become more stringent in the future. Although we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with any such requirements, the costs could be significant. Non-compliance could subject us to significant liabilities, such as government fines, third-party lawsuits or the suspension of non-compliant operations. We also may be required to make significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future developments also could restrict or eliminate the use of or require us to make modifications to our products, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. At any given time, we are involved in claims, litigation, administrative proceedings and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving potential environmental liabilities, including clean-up costs associated with hazardous waste disposal sites, natural resource damages, property damage and personal injury. We 17 Table of Contents cannot assure you that the resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. The ultimate costs and timing of environmental liabilities are difficult to predict. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. One liable party could be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault, percentage of contribution to the site or the legality of the original disposal. We may also face liability with respect to acquired businesses for violations under environmental laws occurring prior to the date of our acquisition, and some or all of these liabilities may not be covered by indemnification from the sellers from which we acquired these businesses. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our product sales and financial performance could be adversely affected. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, nondisclosure agreements and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights in our various lines of business. Our performance may depend in part on our ability to establish, protect and enforce intellectual property rights with respect to our patented technologies and proprietary rights and to defend against any claims of infringement, which involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, we may not be able to protect the value of some of our intellectual property. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we have been using or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. If we are unable to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, we may be forced to cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and may be time-consuming if possible. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of some of our resources. Our intellectual property rights may not have the value we believe them to have, which could result in a competitive disadvantage or adversely affect our business and financial performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments at this time. 18 Table of Contents 