Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued). The Company has foreign operations that would be adversely impacted in the event of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, economic and legal sanctions and changes in global trade policies. The Company has operations in certain international areas, including parts of the Middle East and South America, that are subject to risks of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, economic and legal sanctions (such as restrictions against countries that the U.S. government may deem to sponsor terrorism) and changes in global trade policies. The Company’s operations may be restricted or prohibited in any country in which these risks occur. In particular, the occurrence of any of these risks could result in the following events, which in turn, could materially and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations: • disruption of oil and natural gas exploration and production activities; • restriction of the movement and exchange of funds; • inhibition of our ability to collect receivables; • enactment of additional or stricter U.S. government or international sanctions; and • limitation of our access to markets for periods of time. Results of operations could be adversely affected by actions under U.S. trade laws. Although the Company is a U.S.-based manufacturing and services company, it does own and operate international manufacturing operations that support its U.S.-based business. If actions under U.S. trade laws were instituted that limited the Company’s access to these products, the ability to meet its customer specifications and delivery requirements would be reduced. Any adverse effects on the Company’s ability to import products from its foreign subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company is subject to currency exchange rate risk, which could adversely affect its results of operations. The Company is subject to currency exchange rate risk with debt denominated in U.S. dollars owed to its U.S. entity by its French and Canadian subsidiaries. The Company cannot assure that future currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have an adverse affect on its results of operations. The Company’s common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price volatility. The trading price of the Company’s common stock has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. The Company’s common stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: • trends in the Company’s industries and the markets in which it operates; • changes in the market price of the products the Company sells; • the introduction of new technologies or products by the Company or its competitors; • changes in expectations as to the Company’s future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; 9 • announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, financings or capital commitments; • changes in laws and regulations; and • general economic and competitive conditions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 