Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks described below are those which the Company believes are the material risks that it faces. Any of the risk factors described below could significantly and adversely affect its business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A decline in domestic and worldwide oil and gas drilling activity would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Oilfield segment is materially dependent on the level of oil and gas drilling activity in North America and worldwide, which in turn depends on the level of capital spending by major, independent and state-owned exploration and production companies. This capital spending is driven by current prices for oil and gas and the perceived stability and sustainability of those prices. Oil and gas prices have been subject to significant fluctuation in recent years in response to changes in the supply and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty, world events, governmental actions, and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including: · the level of North American and worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; · worldwide economic conditions, particularly economic conditions in North America; · oil and gas production costs; · weather conditions; · the expected costs of developing new reserves; · national government political requirements and the policies of OPEC; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; · environmental regulation; and · tax policies. Increases in the prices of our raw materials could adversely affect the Company’s margins and results of operations. The Company uses large amounts of steel and iron in the manufacture of its products. The price of these raw materials has a significant impact on the cost of producing products. Steel and iron prices have increased significantly in the last five years, caused primarily by higher energy prices and increased global demand. Since most of the Company’s suppliers are not currently parties to long-term contracts with it, the Company is vulnerable to fluctuations in prices of such raw materials. Factors such as supply and demand, freight costs and transportation availability, inventory levels of brokers and dealers, the level of imports and general economic conditions may affect the price of cast iron and steel. Raw material prices may increase significantly in the future. Certain items such as steel round and bearings have continued to experience price increases, price volatility and longer lead times. If the Company is unable to pass future raw material price increases on to its customers, margins, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be adversely affected. Interruption in the Company’s supply of raw materials could adversely affect its results of operations. The Company relies on various suppliers to supply the components utilized to manufacture its products. The availability of the raw materials is not only a function of the availability of steel and iron, but also the alloy materials that are utilized by the Company’s suppliers. To date, shortages have not caused a material disruption in availability or in the Company’s manufacturing operations. However, material disruptions may occur in the future. Raw material shortages and allocations may result in inefficient operations and a build-up of inventory, which can negatively affect the Company’s working capital position. The loss of any of the Company’s suppliers or their inability to meet its price, quality, quantity and delivery requirements could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. K 8 The Company’s customers’ industries are undergoing continuing consolidation that may impact its results of operations. Some of the Company’s largest customers have consolidated and are using their size and purchasing power to achieve economies of scale and pricing concessions. This consolidation may result in reduced capital spending by such customers or the acquisition of one or more of the Company’s other primary customers, which may lead to decreased demand for the Company’s products and services. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to maintain its level of sales to any customer that has consolidated or replace that revenue with increased business activities with other customers. As a result, this consolidation activity could have a significant negative impact on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. The Company is unable to predict what effect consolidations may have on prices, capital spending by its customers, its selling strategies, its competitive position, its ability to retain customers or its ability to negotiate favorable agreements. The inherent dangers and complexity of the Company’s products and services could subject it to substantial liability claims that may not be covered by its insurance and that could adversely affect its results of operations. The products that the Company manufactures and the services that it provides are complex, and the failure of its equipment to operate properly or to meet specifications may greatly increase its customers’ costs. In addition, many of these products are used in inherently hazardous industries, such as the oil and gas drilling and production industry where an accident or product failure can cause personal injury or loss of life, damage to property, equipment, or the environment, regulatory investigations and penalties and the suspension of the end-user’s operations. If the Company’s products or services fail to meet specifications or are involved in accidents or failures, the Company could face warranty, contract, or other litigation claims for which it may be held responsible and its reputation for providing quality products may suffer. The Company’s insurance may not be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that the Company may incur or for which the Company may be found responsible. Moreover, in the future, the Company may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that it deems adequate or at premiums that it deems reasonable, particularly in the recent environment of significant insurance premium increases. Further, any claims made under the Company’s policies will likely cause its premiums to increase. Any future damages deemed to be caused by the Company’s products or services that are assessed against it and that are not covered by its insurance, or that are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Litigation and claims for which the Company is not insured can occur, including employee claims, intellectual property claims, breach of contract claims, and warranty claims. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions, which will cause it to fail to realize expected returns. The Company continually explores opportunities to acquire related businesses, some of which could be material to the Company. The ability to continue to grow, however, may depend upon identifying and successfully acquiring attractive companies, effectively integrating these companies, achieving cost efficiencies and managing these businesses as part of the Company. The Company may not be able to effectively integrate the acquired companies and successfully implement appropriate operational, financial and management systems and controls to achieve the benefits expected to result from these acquisitions. The Company’s efforts to integrate these businesses could be affected by a number of factors beyond its control, such as regulatory developments, general economic conditions and increased competition. In addition, the process of integrating these businesses could cause the interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the Company’s existing business. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of these businesses could negatively impact the Company’s business and results of operations. Further, the benefits that the Company anticipates from these acquisitions may not develop. Labor disputes or the expiration of the Company’s current labor contract could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s main U.S. manufacturing facilities are unionized, and the current labor contract with respect to those facilities will expire in October 2014. The Company cannot assure that disputes, work stoppages or strikes will not arise in the future. In addition, when the existing collective bargaining agreement expires, the Company cannot assure that it will be able to reach a new agreement with its employees or that any new agreement will be on substantially similar terms as the existing agreement. Future disputes with and labor concessions to the Company’s employees could have a material adverse effect upon its results of operations and financial position. K 9 The inability to hire and retain qualified employees may hinder the Company’s growth. The ability to provide high-quality products and services depends in part on the Company’s ability to hire and retain skilled personnel in the areas of management, product engineering, servicing and sales. Competition for such personnel is intense and competitors can be expected to attempt to hire the Company’s skilled employees from time to time. In particular, the Company’s business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if it is unable to retain the customer relationships and technical expertise provided by the Company’s management team and professional personnel. Significant competition in the industries in which the Company operates may result in its competitors offering new or better products and services or lower prices, which could result in a loss of customers and a decrease in revenues. The industries in which the Company operates are highly competitive. The Company competes with other manufacturers and service providers of varying sizes, some of which may have greater financial and technological resources than it does. If the Company is unable to compete successfully with other manufacturers and service providers, it could lose customers and its revenues may decline. In addition, competitive pressures in the industry may affect the market prices of the Company’s new and used equipment, which, in turn, may adversely affect its sales margins, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Disruption of the Company’s manufacturing operations or management information systems would have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. While the Company owns numerous facilities domestically and internationally, its primary manufacturing facilities, located in and around Lufkin, Texas account for a significant percentage of its manufacturing output. An unexpected disruption in the Company’s production at these facilities or in its management information systems for any length of time would have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. A deterioration in future expected profitability or cash flows could result in an impairment of the Company’s goodwill. The Company performs an annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles. Additionally, the Company assesses goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying values may not be recoverable. The Company relies on discounted cash flow analysis, which requires significant judgments and estimates about the Company’s future operations, to develop its estimates of fair value. If these projected cash flows change materially, the Company may be required to record impairment losses relative to goodwill or indefinite lived intangibles which could be material to its results of operations in any particular reporting period. The Company has foreign operations that would be adversely impacted in the event of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, economic and legal sanctions and changes in global trade policies. The Company has operations in certain international areas, including parts of the Middle East and South America, that are subject to risks of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, economic and legal sanctions (such as restrictions against countries that the U.S. government may deem to sponsor terrorism) and changes in global trade policies. The Company’s operations may be restricted or prohibited in any country in which these risks occur. In particular, the occurrence of any of these risks could result in the following events, which in turn, could materially and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations: · disruption of oil and natural gas exploration and production activities; · restriction of the movement and exchange of funds; · inhibition of the Company’s ability to collect receivables; · enactment of additional or stricter U.S. government or international sanctions; and · limitation of the Company’s access to markets for periods of time. K 10 The Company is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws, as well as other laws and regulations governing its operations. If the Company fails to comply with these laws, it could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, other remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Given the industries in which the Company participates, the Company operates in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in which strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. The Company’s training and compliance program cannot protect it from reckless or criminal acts committed by its employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt the Company’s business and result in a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The Company is also subject to other laws and regulations governing its operations, including regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security, the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Asset Control, and various non-U.S. government entities, including applicable export control regulations, economic sanctions on countries and persons, and customs requirements, which the Company refers to collectively as “Trade Control laws.” Trade Control laws are complex and constantly changing, and compliance with them increases the Company’s cost of doing business. There is no assurance that the Company will be completely effective in ensuring its compliance with Trade Control laws. If the Company is not in compliance with Trade Control laws, it may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, and other sanctions and remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could have an adverse impact on its business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Likewise, any investigation of any potential violations of Trade Control laws by U.S. or foreign authorities could also have an adverse impact on the Company’s reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's results of operations could be adversely affected by actions under U.S. trade laws. Although the Company is a U.S.-based manufacturing and services company, it owns and operates international manufacturing operations that support its U.S.-based business. If actions under U.S. trade laws were instituted that limited the Company’s access to these products, the Company’s ability to meet its customer specifications and delivery requirements would be reduced. Any adverse effects on the Company’s ability to import products from its foreign subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. The Company is subject to currency exchange rate risk, which could adversely affect its results of operations. The Company is subject to currency exchange rate risk with intercompany debt denominated in U.S. dollars owed by its Canadian subsidiary. The Company cannot assure that future currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have an adverse affect on its results of operations. The Company may be subject to litigation if another party claims that it has infringed upon its intellectual property rights. The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components the Company uses to provide its services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running the Company’s core business. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase the Company’s costs. If a license were not available the Company might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase its costs. Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and the Company’s pension cost. The Company’s funding policy for its pension plan is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long-run, will approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. The Company’s pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The Company’s pension plan is supported by pension fund investments that are volatile and subject to financial market risk, including fixed income, domestic and foreign equity securities, real estate and hedge funds. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets could result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. A change in the discount rate would result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of the Company’s pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets could result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost for subsequent fiscal years. Any capital financing that may be necessary to fund growth may not be available to the Company at economic rates. Turmoil in the credit markets and the potential impact on liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to fund growth opportunities through borrowings, under either existing or newly created instruments in the public or private markets on terms the Company believes to be reasonable. K 11 Due to the recent financial and credit crisis, certain of the Company’s counterparties may be unable to meet their financial obligations to the Company or, alternatively, may be forced to postpone or otherwise cancel their contracts with the Company. The recent credit crisis and the related turmoil in the global financial system have had an adverse impact on the Company’s business and financial condition and the business and financial condition of its counterparties. While the financial markets experienced improvement in 2010 the Company has continued to face challenges due to general financial market volatility. The Company may be subject to increased counterparty risks whereby its counterparties may not be willing or able to meet their financial obligations to the Company or, alternatively, may be forced to postpone or otherwise cancel their contracts with the Company. A sustained decline in the ability of the Company’s counterparties to meet their financial obligations to the Company would adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. An array of international climate change accords focused on limiting and reducing greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our products or services. The Company services customers in numerous foreign countries. As such, we are subject not only to U.S. climate change legislation but may also be subject to certain international climate change accords. A variety of regulatory developments, proposals or requirements have been introduced and/or adopted in the international regions in which the Company operates that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Among these developments are the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, also known as the “Kyoto Protocol, ” and the European Union Emissions Trading System, or EU ETS, which was launched as an international “cap and trade” system on allowances for emitting greenhouse gases. These international regulatory developments may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where the Company and its customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for the Company’s products and services, which may in turn adversely affect the Company’s future results of operations. Climate change regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the Company’s products or services. From time to time, Congress has considered legislation on climate change matters, which, if adopted, could increase the Company’s costs or affect the demand for its products. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In response to its endangerment findings, the EPA adopted regulations that require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles. The EPA has asserted that the motor vehicle greenhouse gas emissions standards triggered the Clean Air Act construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources, commencing when the motor vehicle standards took effect on January 2, 2011. The EPA also adopted rules which will lead to the imposition of greenhouse gas emission limitations in Clean Air Act permits for certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require the Company to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with operations, could adversely impact customers’ operations or demand for customers’ products, or could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products or services. The Company’s common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price volatility. The market price of the Company’s common stock has historically experienced and continues to experience high volatility been. The Company’s common stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: · trends in the Company’s industries and the markets in which it operates; · changes in the market price of the products the Company sells; · the introduction of new technologies or products by the Company or its competitors; · changes in expectations as to the Company’s future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; K 12 · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, financings or capital commitments; · the price of oil; · changes in laws and regulations; and · general economic and competitive conditions. Volatility or depressed market prices of the Company’s common stock could make it difficult for you to resell shares of its common stock when you want or at attractive prices. There may be future dilution of the Company’s common stock or other equity, which may adversely affect the market price of its common stock. The Company is not restricted from issuing additional shares of its common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable for its common stock. If the Company issues additional shares of its common stock or convertible or exchangeable securities, it may adversely affect the market price of its common stock. The Company’s certificate of incorporation authorizes its board of directors to issue up to 60,000,000 shares of its common stock, par value $1.00 per share, and up to 2,000,000 shares of our preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share. The Company is able to issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than its common stock. The Company’s certificate of incorporation authorizes its board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from its stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of the Company’s common stock in terms of dividends, liquidation rights or voting rights. If the Company issues preferred stock, it may adversely affect the market price of its common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None K 13 