ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors identified in the cautionary statements below could cause our actual results to differ materially from those suggested in the forward-looking statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, these risk factors are not exhaustive and new risks may also emerge from time to time. It is not possible for management to predict all risk factors or to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. We are subject to a product liability jury verdict substantially in excess of our insurance coverage and beyond our capacity to pay. On December 7, 2010, the jury in the Barnhard v Cybex International, Inc. product liability suit returned a $66 million verdict, apportioned 75% to Cybex, 20% to a non-affiliated co-defendant and 5% to the plaintiff. Under New York law, Cybex would be responsible for payment of 95% of any judgment entered on this verdict and may then seek to collect 20% of such judgment from the co-defendant. Our available insurance coverage for this matter as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $2,900,000. See Item 3, Part 1 below and Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for a more detailed description of this matter. We intend to vigorously pursue all available options to seek a reversal or reduction of the verdict and any judgment that is ultimately entered on the verdict. However, any appeals we make in this matter may be denied. In addition, we may be required to post a bond in a significant amount, up to the full amount of the judgment, in order to obtain a stay of enforcement of the judgment during the pendency of our appeals, and there is no assurance that we will have the financial ability to obtain such a bond. We do not have the resources to a satisfy our obligations if the plaintiff is ultimately able, either due to our inability to post a bond or the failure of our appeals, to enforce a judgment in this matter unless the judgment is substantially reduced from the jury verdict. Even if we have the financial ability to obtain a bond or to pay a reduced judgment, such events could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, liquidity, financial condition and cash flows. The uncertainties of this matter may also negatively affect the willingness of others, including our customers, vendors and lenders, to do business with us. The above factors have caused our independent registered public accountants to include an explanatory paragraph in their opinion on our consolidated financial statements included herein stating that this matter raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Failure to comply with our credit facilities could have a material adverse effect upon us. We failed to meet certain financial covenants contained in our credit facilities at March 28 and June 27, 2009. We obtained waivers from each lender for the quarters then ended, and we also renegotiated our financial covenants with our lenders. 7 In March, 2011, our financial covenants were further amended and we are currently in compliance with our credit facilities. A failure to remain in compliance with our credit facilities could result in a number of consequences, such as our lenders requiring all indebtedness to be paid or our revolving lender refusing to extend further revolving loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or financial condition. Our revolving credit facility matures on July 1, 2011. Our revolving credit facility matures on July 1, 2011, prior to which time we anticipate it will be extended or refinanced. However, there is no assurance that such extension or refinancing will be available or, if available, that it will be on favorable terms. If we are unable to extend or refinance the revolving credit facility, we would not have available to us working capital loans. While we have not utilized the revolving credit facility for working capital financing since 2009, the failure to have revolving credit availability could result in insufficient sources of liquidity to meet our obligations. We have incurred losses. We incurred net losses in the last three fiscal years. In 2008 we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $11,247,000, resulting in a net loss for the year. An approximate 19% decline in our 2009 net sales compared to the prior year was a substantial contributor to our 2009 net loss. In 2010, we incurred $45,991,000 in pre-tax litigation charges, related to the product liability jury award discussed above, and a $12,665,000 incremental tax provision, primarily due to the valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets as a result of the uncertainty of realization caused by the litigation charge, resulting in a net loss of $58,237,000 for the year. If we are unable to maintain our profitability and we incur losses in the future, such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, liquidity, financial condition and cash flows. General economic conditions affect our results. Demand for our products is affected by economic conditions and consumer confidence. In times of economic uncertainty, our customers, particularly commercial customers such as fitness clubs, may become cautious in making expansion and other investments and may reduce their capital expenditures for items such as the fitness equipment offered by us. In addition, economic conditions could make it more difficult for us to collect amounts as they become due to us. While our net sales in 2010 were 2% above prior year results, net sales for 2009 and 2010 were approximately 19% and 17%, respectively, below 2008 net sales. We believe that this sales decline largely reflected our customers’ caution in making capital investment decisions due to economic conditions, both generally and in the fitness industry. If these economic conditions persist or further deteriorate, our ability to generate future revenues and earnings and our business prospects, liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend upon our ability to successfully develop, market and sell new or improved products. Our continued growth and ability to remain competitive will substantially depend upon our development of new or improved products. A failure to develop new or improved products on a timely basis, or which are accepted in the marketplace, or which produce appropriate sales or profit margins, could adversely affect our ability to generate future revenues and earnings and have a negative impact on our business prospects, liquidity and financial condition. Increases in raw material costs, or the unavailability of raw materials or components, could adversely affect us. Increases in our cost of raw materials could have a material effect on our profitability. We currently source our Home Arc, multi-gym and stepper and certain raw materials and component parts (e.g., drive motors, belts, running decks, molded plastic components and electronics) from single suppliers. Current economic conditions may make it more likely that our suppliers are unable to deliver supplies which we require on a timely basis or at all. The loss of a significant supplier, or delays or disruptions in the delivery of raw materials or components, could adversely affect our ability to generate future revenues and earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We are subject to product liability claims that may exceed our insurance coverage. As a manufacturer of fitness products, we are inherently subject to the hazards and uncertainties of product liability litigation. We have maintained, and expect to continue to maintain, product liability insurance, and we include reserves for self 8 insured retention in accrued liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. While we believe that our current insurance coverage is adequate, we may be subject to product liability claims which assert damages materially in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. In December 2010, a significant jury verdict was rendered in a product liability suit, discussed above, which substantially exceeds our available insurance coverage. It is possible that the Company could be subject to other product liability judgments or settlements which materially exceed the available insurance coverage and related reserves. We have been involved in a number of other litigation matters and expect legal claims in the future. In recent years we have been involved in a number of other litigation matters, including with respect to intellectual property rights and contractual disputes. We expect that we will continue to be involved in litigation in the ordinary course of business. While we maintain reserves for estimated litigation costs and losses, one or more adverse determinations or excessive costs in litigation affecting us could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, liquidity, financial condition and cash flows. Our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property from misappropriation or competition could adversely affect our business prospects. Our intellectual property aids us in competing in the exercise equipment industry. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, such as through patent, trade secret and trademark protection, unauthorized parties may try to copy our products, or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our rights to as great an extent as U.S. law. Furthermore, the patents and trademarks which we have obtained or may seek in the future may not be of a sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful economic or competitive value. Our rights and the additional steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate to deter misappropriation, and we also remain subject to the risk that our competitors or others will independently develop non-infringing products substantially equivalent or superior to our products. We also may not be able to prevent others from claiming that our products violate their proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or if we are sued for infringing another party’s intellectual property, our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We principally use two facilities to produce our products and a material business disruption at either facility could significantly impact our business. Most of our products are manufactured or assembled in two vertically integrated facilities located in Massachusetts and Minnesota. These facilities house all our manufacturing operations and our executive offices. We take precautions to safeguard our facilities, including obtaining insurance, maintaining safety protocols and using off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, or an act of terrorism or vandalism, could cause substantial disruption to our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment, information systems or inventory and cause us to incur substantial additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against disasters may not cover or otherwise be adequate to meet our losses in any particular case. Any disaster which prevents operations in either of our facilities for any extended period may result in decreased revenues and increased costs and could significantly harm our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects. The loss of a major customer could adversely affect us. In 2010 sales to one independent authorized dealer represented 13.0% of our net sales and sales to an end user customer represented 12.4% of net sales. These customers represented 9.5% and 6.7%, respectively, of our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2010. The concentration of customers may increase our overall exposure to credit risk. The loss or significant reduction in the business of a major customer, or a major customer experiencing financial difficulty, could significantly harm our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects. We rely on third party dealers and distributors to sell and service a significant portion of our products. In 2010, more than half of our total net sales were to our independent authorized dealers in North America and to independent distributors internationally. These third party dealers and distributors may terminate their relationships with us, or fail to commit the necessary resources to sell or service our products to the level of our 9 expectations. If current or future third party dealers or distributors do not perform adequately, or if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with them or fail to recruit and retain dealers or distributors in particular markets or geographic areas, our revenues may be adversely affected and our operating results could suffer. Our major stockholders may exercise effective control over us. John Aglialoro, Joan Carter and UM Holdings Ltd., who are related parties, collectively own approximately 49.5% of our outstanding common stock. Such stockholders may have the ability to significantly influence (i) the election of our Board of Directors, and thus our future direction and (ii) the outcome of all other matters submitted to our stockholders, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. We face strong competition. The fitness equipment industry is highly competitive. Numerous companies manufacture, sell or distribute exercise equipment. Our competitors include companies with strong name recognition and more extensive financial and other resources than us. We carry debt. We carry long-term debt. This leverage may have several important consequences, including the need to meet debt service requirements and vulnerability to changes in interest rates. This leverage may also limit our ability to raise additional capital, withstand adverse economic or business conditions and competitive pressures, and take advantage of significant business opportunities that may arise. Warranty claims may exceed the related reserves. We warrant our products for varying periods of up to ten years. While we maintain reserves for warranty claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, liquidity, financial condition and cash flows if warranty claims were to materially exceed anticipated levels. We may have a liability related to the arrangement of third party financing. We offer to our customers leasing and other financing of products by third party providers, for which we may receive a fee. While most of these financings are without recourse, in certain cases we may offer a guaranty or other recourse provisions. At December 31, 2010, our maximum contingent liability under all recourse provisions was approximately $5,691,000. While we maintain a reserve for estimated losses under these recourse provisions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, liquidity, financial condition and cash flows if actual losses were to materially exceed the related reserve. We are currently not in compliance with, and may be unable to regain or maintain compliance with, NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. On January 21, 2011, we received notification from the NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) that we no longer meet the NASDAQ’s continued listing requirement because our common stock traded below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. The notification of non-compliance has no immediate effect on the listing or trading of our securities on the NASDAQ Global Market. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for at least 10 consecutive business days prior to July 20, 2011. In addition to NASDAQ’s $1.00 minimum bid price rule, there are a number of other continued listing requirements that we must satisfy in order to maintain our listing on NASDAQ, and there is no assurance we will regain and maintain compliance with the NASDAQ continued listing standards. The delisting of our common stock from trading on NASDAQ could have a significant negative effect on the market for, and liquidity and value of, our common stock. Unfavorable international political or economic changes and/or currency fluctuations could negatively impact us. Approximately 31% and 29% of our sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively, were derived from outside North America. Political or economic changes and/or currency fluctuations in countries in which we do business could negatively impact our business and financial results, including decreases in our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to attract and retain key employees and the loss of any member of our senior management could negatively affect our business. We compete for the services of qualified personnel. Our future success will depend upon, to a significant degree, the performance and contribution of the members of senior 10 management and upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain other highly qualified employees with technical, management, marketing, sales, product development, creative and other skills. Although we do have employment agreements with our executive officers, there can be no assurance that such officers will continue to perform under those contracts. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we lost the services of members of our senior management team or key technical or creative employees or if we failed to attract additional highly qualified employees. Future issuances of preferred stock may adversely affect the holders of our common stock. Our Board has the ability to issue, without approval by the common stockholders, shares of one or more series of preferred stock, with the new series having such rights and preferences as the Board may determine in its sole discretion. Any series of preferred stock may have rights, including cumulative dividend, liquidation and conversion rights, senior to our common stock, which could adversely affect the holders of the common stock, as well as the economic value of the common stock. A variety of factors may discourage potential take-over attempts. John Aglialoro, Joan Carter and UM Holdings Ltd., who are related parties, collectively own approximately 49.5% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation requires an affirmative super-majority stockholder vote before we can enter into certain defined business combinations, except for combinations that meet certain specified conditions; provides for staggered three-year terms for members of the Board of Directors; and authorizes the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Each of these factors could have the effect of discouraging potential take-over attempts and may make attempts by stockholders to change our management more difficult. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting, or if these internal controls are not effective, our business and financial results may suffer. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could also be a material adverse effect on our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 