Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The reader should carefully review and consider the risk factors discussed below. Any and all of these risk factors could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition, future results of operations or cash flows and possibly lead to a decline in Lydall’s stock price. The risks, uncertainties and other factors described below constitute all material risk factors known to management as of the date of this report. The Company’s Ability to Accurately Report its Financial Results may be Adversely Affected by the Lack of Effective Internal Controls and Procedures – At December 31, 2010, the Company had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the preparation and filing of the third quarter 2010 Form 10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of September 30, 2010 because of a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting described in Item 4 of the Form 10-Q filed on November 5, 2010. As described in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management believes that at December 31, 2010, enhancements have been made to strengthen the disclosure controls and procedures. Because the reliability of the internal control process requires repeatable execution, the successful remediation of this material weakness will require review and evidence of effectiveness prior to management concluding that the controls are now effective. Some of the enhancements that have been implemented by management in the fourth quarter of 2010 have not been in place for a sufficient period of time to demonstrate that their effectiveness is sustainable. Therefore, additional time is required to validate that the material weakness is fully remediated. Until management is able to ensure the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures, the material weakness may materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to report accurately its financial information in a timely and reliable manner. Worldwide Economic Cycles – Worldwide economic cycles affect the markets that the Company’s businesses serve and could affect demand for the Company’s products and impact profitability. Among other factors, disruptions in the global credit and financial markets, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, swings in consumer confidence and spending, unstable economic growth and fluctuations in unemployment rates could cause further economic instability and could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and make it difficult to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Demand for the Company’s products may be affected by continued uncertainty regarding the overall economic outlook for both U.S. and non-U.S. economies. Quarterly Results – The Company’s quarterly results are subject to significant fluctuations. Operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including size and timing of orders and shipments, loss of significant customers, product mix, technological change, operational efficiencies and inefficiencies, competition and general economic conditions. In addition, if revenues and asset utilization decrease, the absorption of the Company’s fixed costs will negatively impact gross margins. Thermal/Acoustical Segment – Supplier to the Global Automotive Market – The Company’s Thermal/Acoustical segment, a vendor to the automotive market, accounted for approximately 53% of consolidated net sales in 2010. Approximately 54% of segment net sales were manufactured in North America and 46% were manufactured in Europe. Among other factors, the Company’s automotive business could be impacted by: • Global economic uncertainties and swings in consumer spending; • A continuation of gross margin losses on fiber based products at its North American automotive facility. Fiber-based products were negatively impacted by higher manufacturing costs during 2010, including increases in raw material costs, abnormally high labor and overtime costs, material usage inefficiencies and excessive scrap on production lines, significant freight expediting and inspection costs; • The degree of success of actions aimed at improving the gross margins of fiber based products at the North American automotive facility as there is no assurance that depressed operating results for the Thermal/Acoustical segment will not continue in 2011; • An inability to satisfy the demand for the Company’s fiber-based products at the North American automotive facility, including on time delivery requirements, resulting in customer claims and contract penalties. Additionally, product quality could be impaired by the Company’s efforts to rapidly ramp up production necessary to satisfy a dramatic increase in demand; • Impairment of the Company’s relations with the automotive manufacturers and its status as an approved supplier to the automotive manufacturers as the result of the Company’s failure to satisfy current and expected demand and/or incur 4 Table of Contents product quality issues. An impairment of the Company’s status as an approved supplier could result in the loss of future business; • The inability of the Company to realize the expected benefits from investments it has made in capital equipment to respond to the increased demand for the Company’s fiber-based automotive products; • Financial uncertainties faced by automakers and other automotive customers, as well as labor unrest and supply chain disruptions in the automotive industry; • The failure of an automaker to timely, or ever, pay the Company amounts owed, especially since receivables from automakers often comprise a material portion of overall account receivable; • The Company’s dependence on sales to large automotive manufacturers who have substantial bargaining power with respect to price, volume and other commercial terms. In the event customers obtain price decreases from Lydall, Lydall may not be able to offset such reduction by decreases in its costs of goods sold; • The sourcing by automotive OEM’s of parts from lower cost countries, in which Lydall does not operate. Restructurings and Cost Reduction Activities – During 2009, Lydall implemented certain measures to address slowdowns in the markets for most of its products, including a consolidation of facilities and headcount reductions. The Company cannot assure that, if production levels continue to increase, measures implemented in 2009 will not result in unforeseen costs, disruptions in operations or have other negative effects. Manufacturing Efficiencies – The Company operates a number of manufacturing facilities. The equipment and systems necessary for such operations may break down, perform poorly or fail, causing fluctuations in manufacturing efficiencies. Such fluctuations could affect the Company’s ability to deliver products to customers on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Cyclical Business – Lydall’s Affinity business, which provides capital equipment for the semiconductor and other industries, experienced a significant increase in customer demand in 2010 and may not be able to satisfy this demand or otherwise deliver products on time. The Affinity business is subject to, and affected by, dramatic swings in demand in the historically cyclical semiconductor industry. As a result, it is possible that demand for Affinity products, which has recently increased, could significantly decrease in the future. Liquidity and Capital Resources – The Company may not have adequate cash to fund its operating requirements. The principal source of liquidity is operating cash flows. In addition to operating cash flows, other significant factors that affect the overall management of liquidity include capital expenditures, investments in businesses, acquisitions, income tax payments, pension funding, outcomes of contingencies and availability of lines of credit and long-term financing. The Company’s liquidity can be impacted by the Company’s ability to: • Manage working capital and the level of future profitability. The consolidated cash balance is impacted by capital equipment and inventory investments that may be made in response to changing market conditions; • Satisfy covenants and other obligations under its Domestic Credit Facility, which could limit or prohibit Lydall’s ability to borrow funds under the Domestic Credit Facility. Additionally, these debt covenants and other obligations could limit the Company’s ability to make acquisitions, incur additional debt, make investments, or consummate asset sales; • Obtain additional financing from other sources. Raw Material Pricing and Supply – Raw material pricing and supply issues could affect all of the Company’s businesses. The Thermal/Acoustical segment uses aluminum and other metals to manufacture most of its automotive heat shields. The Thermal/Acoustical and Performance Materials segments use various fibers in manufacturing its products. If the prices of these raw materials increase, the Company may not have the ability to pass incremental cost increases on to its customers, thus negatively impacting Lydall’s financial results. In addition, an interruption in the ability of the Company to source these materials could negatively impact operations and sales. Energy Pricing – Increases in energy pricing can affect all of the Company’s businesses. Higher energy costs at the Company’s manufacturing plants or higher energy costs passed on from the Company’s vendors could impact each business’ profitability. 5 Table of Contents International Operations – The Company believes that in order to be competitive and grow its businesses, it needs to maintain significant international operations. Foreign sales were $122.4 million, $96.3 million, and $118.5 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operations outside the United States may be subject to inherent risks including political and economic conditions in various countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable collection cycles and potentially adverse tax consequences. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations – Transactions in non-functional currencies may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations. The Company’s primary currency exposure is to the Euro. The Company’s foreign and domestic operations limit foreign currency exchange transaction risk by completing transactions in functional currencies whenever practical or through the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts when deemed appropriate. If the Company is not able to successfully hedge its currency exposure, changes in the rate of exchange between these foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may negatively impact the Company. Additionally, translation of the results of operations and financial condition of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations. The Company receives a material portion of its revenue from foreign operations. The Company’s reported results of operations and financial condition are subject to changes in the exchange relationship between the U.S. dollar and any applicable foreign currency. Such changes can affect the Company’s results of operations and assets and liabilities as reported in its financial statements. Company Resources – The industries in which Lydall sells its products are highly competitive and many of the competitors are affiliated with entities that are substantially larger and that have greater financial, technical and marketing resources. The Company’s more limited resources and relatively diverse product mix may limit or impair its ability to capitalize on changes in technology, competition and pricing. New Product Introductions – Improved performance and growth are partially dependent on new product introductions planned for the future. Delays in developing products and long customer qualification cycles may impact the success of new product programs. The degree of success of new product programs could materially impact the Company’s future results. Product Performance – In the event that the Company’s products fail to perform as expected, the Company may be subject to warranty claims from its customers. If such failure results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or other losses, the Company may be subject to product liability lawsuits, product recalls and other claims, any of which could have a material impact on results of operations and cash flows. Strategic Initiatives – As part of Lydall’s business strategy, the Company continues to review various strategic and business opportunities to grow the business and evaluates the profitability and growth potential for each of its existing businesses. The Company cannot predict with certainty whether any recent or future strategic transactions will be beneficial to the Company. Future performance could be impacted by the Company’s ability to: • Obtain adequate financing to fund strategic initiatives, which could be difficult to obtain; • Identify and effectively complete strategic transactions; • Successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses that involve numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, managing assets in multiple geographic regions and potential loss of key employees and key customers of acquired operations. Attracting and Retaining Key Employees – The Company’s success, in part, depends on key managerial, engineering, sales and marketing and technical personnel and its ability to continue to attract and retain additional personnel. The loss of certain key personnel could have a material, adverse effect upon the Company’s business and results of operations. There is no assurance that Lydall can retain its key employees or that it can attract competent and effective new or replacement personnel in the future. Key Management Changes to Business Segments – In 2011, the Company is implementing internal organizational changes in its Performance Materials and Vital Fluids businesses. In order to better align the Performance Materials and Vital Fluids businesses with the Company’s strategic direction, Lydall is integrating operational activities and realigning sales and marketing responsibilities. The Company’s ability to effectively and efficiently implement these changes could impact these businesses’ operations and customer relations. 6 Table of Contents Accounting Estimates – Estimates and assumptions may affect the reserves that the Company has established to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, income tax valuation and fair market value write downs of certain assets and various liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Lean Six Sigma Initiatives – The Company’s Lean Six Sigma program is intended to improve processes and work flow, improve customer service, reduce costs and leverage synergies across the Company to improve operating margins. There is no assurance that future Lean Six Sigma initiatives will result in improved operating margins. Environmental Laws and Regulations – The Company is subject to federal, state, local, and foreign environmental, and health and safety laws and regulations that affect ongoing operations. In order to maintain compliance with such requirements, Lydall may incur increased capital costs and operating expenses. In addition, new laws and regulations, including legislation and regulation regarding climate change, discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require the Company to incur costs or become subject to new or increased liabilities that could have a material impact on results of operations and cash flows. Intellectual Property – Lydall owns intellectual property, including patents and trademarks, which play an important role in helping the Company to maintain its competitive position in a number of markets. The Company is subject to risks with respect to (i) changes in the intellectual property landscape of markets in which it competes; (ii) the potential assertion of intellectual property-related claims against Lydall; (iii) the failure to maximize or successfully assert its intellectual property rights; and (iv) significant technological developments by others. Legal Proceedings – The Company is involved in legal proceedings that, from time to time, are significant. These proceedings may include, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims and employment matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. Tax Rate Changes – The Company is subject to risks with respect to changes in tax law and rates, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, or adverse outcomes from tax audits that may be in process in any of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. In addition, certain jurisdictions have statutory rates greater than or less than the United States statutory rate. Changes in the mix and source of earnings between jurisdictions could have a significant impact on the overall effective tax rate in future periods. Disruptions to the Company’s Operations Relating to Information Technology – The capacity, reliability and security of the Company’s information technology hardware and software infrastructure and the ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to the Company’s changing needs are important to the operation of the businesses. Any failure of, or inadequacy in, the information technology infrastructure could harm Lydall’s businesses and negatively impact results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s Ability to Effectively Upgrade Its Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) System – In response to a review of its IT infrastructure, the Company has undertaken a project to upgrade its ERP system. The deployment, implementation and integration to a new version of its ERP system may not be managed in an efficient, timely and cost effective manner resulting in greater than anticipated costs and other operating difficulties. Disruptions to the Company’s Operations – A major disruption caused by acts of war, global warming, terrorist attacks, the threat of domestic and international terrorist attacks, a natural disaster, a fire, or labor strikes and work stoppages at any of the Company’s facilities could result in a prolonged interruption of its business. Certain employees in the United States and Germany and all employees in France and the Netherlands are covered by one or more collective bargaining agreements. Widespread work stoppages or a major strike could have a direct negative impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business, continue production and on its operating results. 7 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 