Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to those described below, any one of which could cause Lydall’s actual results to vary materially from recent results or from the Company’s anticipated future results. A Major Downturn of the North American or European Automotive Markets – Approximately 52 percent of Lydall’s total net sales in 2007 were to the automotive market. Lydall’s automotive products are thermal and acoustical barriers employed both inside and under the body of vehicles. Most of Lydall’s products are supplied to meet unique, niche applications. Lydall may have a number of components on a particular automotive platform and applications can range across all types of vehicles from sport utility models to trucks, vans and cars. During 2007, certain domestic automakers announced changes in ownership, facility closures and other restructuring actions that may impact future automobile production for platforms that include Company content. In addition, global economic conditions can impact the number of automobiles manufactured, which in turn can impact the Company’s net sales. The Company can also be affected when automotive manufacturers discontinue production of specific models that contain Lydall’s products. Conversely, Lydall benefits from the introduction of new models that contain the Company’s products. Although Lydall’s automotive sales are not solely contingent on the strength of the automotive market, a significant downturn of the North American or European automotive industries or a major decline in production of specific vehicles on which Lydall has significant content could have a material impact on Lydall’s results of operations and cash flows. Expanding Business with Asian Automotive manufacturers – The Company continued its long-term focus in 2007 on establishing its position with Asian automotive manufacturers in North America. In 2007, the Hamptonville, North Carolina facility received its first orders from an Asian automotive manufacturer in North America. The Company expects to begin shipments on these orders in the second half of 2008. While the Company has begun to receive orders from Asian manufacturers in North America, no assurances can be given on how successful the Company will be in expanding its business with Asian automotive manufacturers in North America. Dependence on Large Customers – The automotive business is dependent on large OEM customers that have substantial bargaining power with respect to price and other commercial terms. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to offset any reduction of prices to these customers with reductions in its costs. In addition, in the event that certain domestic automakers experience further critical operating and profitability issues, there can be no assurance that the Company will not lose all or a portion of sales to its large volume customers. The Company typically has significant amounts of accounts receivable from domestic automakers outstanding at any point in time. Should a domestic automaker not be able to pay the Company the amounts owed as they become due, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected. Pricing for Automotive Products – From time to time the Company’s prices may be “market tested” by its automotive customers as a way for those automotive customers to ensure global competitiveness. This can cause the Company to reduce prices prospectively on some parts, depending on the results of the customer study, possibly resulting in reduced gross margin on the affected parts, or if prices are not reduced the Company could potentially lose the business from the automotive customer. In addition, the Company could also be negatively impacted by certain automotive customers sourcing a portion of their automotive parts from lower cost countries, in contrast to prior purchasing patterns. Raw Material Pricing and Supply – Raw material pricing and supply issues affect all of Lydall’s businesses and can influence results in the future. The Thermal/Acoustical Segment uses aluminum and other metals to manufacture most automotive heat shields. Also, various fibers are used in Thermal/Acoustical as well as Filtration/Separation products. The Company experienced higher aluminum costs, and to a lesser extent higher fiber costs, during 2007, compared to 2006, which impacted profitability. Further increases in aluminum and fiber prices or other raw materials in 2008 could lower operating income in future periods, should the Company not have the ability to pass some or all of these incremental costs on to its customers. In addition, an interruption in the supply of these materials could decrease the sales of the affected products and thereby also reduce the profitability of the Company. Energy Pricing – Increases in energy pricing affect all of Lydall’s businesses and can influence results in the future. Higher energy costs at Lydall’s Thermal/Acoustical and Filtration/Separation manufacturing plants or higher energy costs passed on from the Company’s vendors could impact each segment’s profitability. In addition, higher energy costs can impact the Company’s transport business and profitability of Other Products and Services. International Operations – The Company believes that in order to be competitive and grow its businesses, it needs to maintain significant international operations. Foreign sales were $105.7 million, $97.3 million and $91.7 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, 4 Table of Contents respectively. Operations outside the United States are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, political and economic conditions in various countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable collection cycles and potentially adverse tax consequences. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to generate sales outside the United States and, consequently, on its business and results of operations. The Company’s results of operations may be impacted and adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates – Lydall is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that are beyond our control. Lydall has sales and manufacturing activities in foreign countries. The Company’s primary currency exposure is to the Euro, and to a lesser degree, the Japanese Yen and the British Pound Sterling. The Company’s foreign and domestic operations limit foreign currency exchange transaction risk by completing transactions in functional currencies whenever practical or through the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts when deemed appropriate. If the Company is not able to successfully hedge its currency exposure, changes in the rate of exchange between these foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and cash flow. The Company’s foreign operations subject it to currency translation risk which could cause the Company’s reported results to fluctuate significantly from period to period – Lydall receives a material portion of its revenue from its foreign operations. For each reporting period, the Company translates the results of operations and financial condition of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars. Therefore, Lydall’s reported results of operations and financial condition are subject to changes in the exchange relationship between the U.S. dollar and any applicable foreign currency. Such changes affect the Company’s results of operations and assets and liabilities as reported in its financial statements. New Product Introductions – Improved performance and growth is partially dependent on new product introductions planned for the future. The timing and degree of success of new product programs could materially impact Lydall’s future results. Product Performance – In the event that Lydall’s products fail to perform as expected, the Company may be subject to warranty claims from its customers. If such failure results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or other losses, the Company may be subject to product liability lawsuits, product recalls, and other claims. These types of claims could have a material impact on results of operations and cash flows should the Company not have insurance to cover such claims. Company Size – The industries in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive and many of the Company’s competitors are affiliated with entities which are substantially larger and which have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company possesses. Because of the Company’s size and product mix, the Company may not be able to capitalize on changes in technology, competition and pricing as fully as the Company’s competitors. Strategic Initiatives – As part of Lydall’s business strategy, the Company continues to review various strategic and business opportunities to grow the business and also reviews its existing businesses to determine whether any of them should be modified, or otherwise restructured. In addition, the Company continually explores its core markets for suitable strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances and licensing agreements to supplement growth. The Company cannot predict with certainty whether any future strategic transactions will be beneficial to the Company. Savings Realized from Lean Six Sigma Initiatives – The Company has implemented a Lean Six Sigma program that has improved processes and work flow, reduced costs and leveraged synergies across the Company resulting in improved operating margins. While management of the Company expects further improvements in operating margins, as Lean Six Sigma becomes inherent in all businesses across the organization, there are no assurances that future Lean Six Sigma initiatives will result in improved operating margins. Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations – The Company is subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental, and health and safety laws and regulations that affect ongoing operations. In order to maintain compliance with such requirements, the Company may incur increased capital costs and operating expenses. In addition, new laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require the Company to incur costs or become subject to new or increased liabilities that could have a material impact on results of operations and cash flows. Developments or assertions by or against the Company relating to intellectual property rights – The Company owns intellectual property, including patents and trademarks. The Company’s intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining its competitive position in a number of the markets served. Developments or assertions by or against the Company relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact the Company. The Company’s results of operations can also be adversely impacted if the Company does not maximize or successfully assert its intellectual property rights. In addition, significant technological developments by others also could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations and financial condition. 5 Table of Contents The Company is involved from time to time in legal proceedings – The Company is involved in legal proceedings that, from time to time, are significant. These claims include, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims and employment matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s expected annual effective tax rate could be volatile and materially change – Changes in tax law and rates, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, or adverse outcomes from tax audits that regularly are in process in any of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates could also have a significant impact on the Company’s overall effective rate in future periods. In addition, certain jurisdictions have statutory rates greater than or less than the United States statutory rate. As such, changes in the mix and source of earnings between jurisdictions could have a significant impact on the Company’s overall effective tax rate in future periods. The Company’s operations may be disrupted by events beyond the Company’s control – A major catastrophe such as a natural disaster, a fire or labor strikes and work stoppages at any of the Company’s facilities could result in a prolonged interruption of its business. Certain of Lydall’s employees in the United States and Germany, and all of the Company’s employees in France, are organized and covered by one or more collective bargaining agreements. Widespread work stoppages or a major catastrophe could have a direct negative impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business, continue production, and on its operating results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 