Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to those described below, any one of which could cause Lydall’s actual results to vary materially from recent results or from the Company’s anticipated future results. A Major Downturn of the North American or European Automotive Markets – Although Lydall’s automotive sales are not solely contingent on the strength of the automotive market, a significant downturn of the North American or European automotive industries or a major decline in production of specific vehicles on which Lydall has significant content could have a substantial impact on Lydall’s results. The Company can also be affected when automotive manufacturers discontinue production of specific models that contain Lydall’s products. Conversely, Lydall benefits from the introduction of new models that contain the Company’s products. Approximately 54% percent of Lydall’s total net sales in 2005 were to the automotive market. Lydall’s automotive products are thermal and acoustical barriers employed both inside and under the body of vehicles. Most of Lydall’s products are supplied to meet unique, niche applications. Lydall may have a number of components on a particular automotive platform and applications can range across all types of vehicles from sport utility models to trucks, vans and cars. Thus, there is not necessarily a direct correlation between the number of Lydall products sold and the number of vehicles being built by automotive manufacturers. 3 Table of Contents Dependence on Large Customers – Our automotive business is dependent on large OEM customers that have substantial bargaining power with respect to price and other commercial terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to offset continued required reduction of prices to these customers with reductions in our costs. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not lose all or a portion of sales to our large volume customers. Pricing for Automotive Products – From time to time the Company’s prices may be “market tested” by our automotive customers as a way for those automotive customers to ensure global competitiveness. This can cause the Company to reduce prices prospectively on some parts, depending on the results of the customer study, resulting in reduced gross margin on the effected parts. Raw Material Pricing and Supply – Raw material pricing and supply issues affect all of Lydall’s businesses and can influence results in the short term. The Thermal/Acoustical Segment uses aluminum and other metals to manufacture most automotive heat shields. Also, various fibers are used in thermal/acoustical as well as filtration/separation products. Price increases in these and other raw materials could increase operating costs and reduce gross margins and thereby reduce the profitability of the Company. In addition, an interruption in the supply of these materials could decrease the sales of the affected products and thereby also reduce the profitability of the Company. Energy Pricing – Increases in energy pricing affect all of Lydall’s businesses and can influence results in the short-term. Higher energy costs at Lydall’s Thermal/Acoustical and Filtration/Separation manufacturing plants or higher energy costs passed on from the Company’s vendors could impact each segment’s profitability. In addition, higher energy costs can impact the Company’s transport business profitability included in Other Products and Services. International Operations – The Company believes that in order to be competitive and grow its businesses, it needs to maintain significant international operations. Foreign sales were $91.1 million, $86.6 million and $67.6 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Operations outside the United States are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, political and economic conditions in various countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable collection cycles and potentially adverse tax consequences. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to generate sales outside the United States and, consequently, on its business and results of operations. New Product Introductions – Improved performance and growth is partially linked to new product introductions planned for the future. The timing and degree of success of new product programs could impact Lydall’s future results. Product Performance – In the event that our products fail to perform as expected, we may be subject to warranty claims from our customers. If such failure results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or other losses, we may be subject to product liability lawsuits, product recalls, and other claims. These types of claims could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations – The Company is subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental, and health and safety laws and regulations that affect ongoing operations. In order to maintain compliance with such requirements, the Company may incur increased capital costs and operating expenses. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require the Company to incur costs or become subject to new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Strategic Initiatives – As part of our business strategy, the Company continues to review various strategic and business opportunities to grow our business and also to review our existing businesses to determine whether any of them should be modified, or otherwise restructured. We cannot predict with certainty whether any future strategic transactions will be beneficial to the Company. Company Size – The industries in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive and many of the Company’s competitors are affiliated with entities which are substantially larger and which may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company possesses. Because of the Company’s size and product mix, the Company may not be able to capitalize on changes in technology, competition and pricing as fully as the Company’s competitors. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 4 Table of Contents 