Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The reader should carefully review and consider the risk factors discussed below. Any and all of these risk factors could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition, future results of operations or cash flows and possibly lead to a decline in Lydall’s stock price. The risks, uncertainties and other factors described below constitute all material risk factors known to management as of the date of this report. Uncertainty in the global economy has negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, Lydall’s business — Uncertainty in the global economy has affected, and could continue to adversely affect, demand for the Company’s products and impact profitability. Among other factors, disruptions in the global credit and financial markets, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, swings in consumer confidence and spending, unstable economic growth and fluctuations in unemployment rates have caused economic instability that has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These factors also make it difficult to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. The Company’s foreign and export sales were 45.2% of net sales in 2013, 46.7% in 2012, and 49.9% in 2011. If the global economy were to take a significant downturn, depending on the length, duration and severity of such downturn, the Company’s business and financial statements could be adversely affected. The Company’s Thermal/Acoustical Metals and Thermal/Acoustical Fibers segments are tied to general economic and automotive industry conditions — The Company’s Thermal/Acoustical Metals and Thermal/Acoustical Fibers segments, suppliers in the automotive market, accounted for 68.5%, 65.5%, and 62.0% of consolidated net sales in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. The segments net sales from products manufactured in North America were 65.4%, 63.1%, and 55.7% in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, with the remainder manufactured in Europe. These segments are tied to general economic and automotive industry conditions as demand for vehicles depends largely on the strength of the economy, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability and cost of credit and the cost of fuel. These factors have had, and could continue to have, a substantial impact on these segments. Adverse developments could reduce demand for new vehicles, causing Lydall’s customers to reduce their vehicle production in North America and Europe and, as a result, demand for Company products would be adversely affected. The Company’s quarterly operating results may fluctuate; as a result, the Company may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause Lydall’s stock price to decline — The Company’s quarterly results are subject to significant fluctuations. Operating results have fluctuated as a result of many factors, including size and timing of orders and shipments, loss of significant customers, product mix, technological change, operational efficiencies and inefficiencies, competition, changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances, strategic initiatives, severance and recruiting charges, asset impairments and general economic conditions. In addition, lower revenues may cause asset utilization to decrease, resulting in the under absorption of the Company’s fixed costs, which could negatively impact gross margins. Additionally, the Company’s gross margins vary among its product groups and have fluctuated from quarter to quarter as a result of shifts in product mix. Any and all of these factors could affect the Company’s business, financial condition, future results of operations or cash flows and possibly lead to a decline in Lydall’s stock price. The Industrial Filtration acquisition exposes the Company to a number of risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of any of which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations as well as the market price of Lydall’s common stock — The Company entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement on February 20, 2014 relating to the acquisition of the Industrial Filtration businesses and funded the purchase price for the acquisition from cash on hand and borrowings under the amended credit facility. The acquisition exposes the Company to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the subsequent integration of the acquired businesses with the Company, the financial performance of the Industrial Filtration acquisition, risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness and the risks associated with international expansion. Additionally, Company management has spent, and will continue to spend, a significant amount of its time and efforts directed toward the Industrial Filtration businesses, which time and efforts otherwise would have been spent on existing businesses and other opportunities that could have been beneficial to Lydall. In addition, the Company may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of the Industrial Filtration businesses. The Company’s ability to realize such benefits will depend on its ability to successfully and efficiently integrate the Industrial Filtration business, which involves products, markets, and geographies that are new to the Company. Difficulties of integration include coordinating and consolidating separate systems and facilities, integrating the management of the acquired business, integrating 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS legal and financial controls in multiple jurisdictions, retaining market acceptance of products, maintaining employee morale, retaining key employees, and implementing Lydall’s management information systems and operational procedures and disciplines. Any such difficulties may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with employees, customers, business partners and suppliers. Also, even if integration is successful, the financial performance of the acquired business may not be as expected and there can be no assurance that the Company will realize anticipated revenue and earnings enhancements from the acquisition. The Company’s inability to implement effective internal controls, procedures and policies for the acquired Industrial Filtration businesses as required by Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 within the time periods prescribed thereby — The Company plans to fully evaluate the internal control of the Industrial Filtration businesses and any subsequently acquired companies, and then implement a standard framework established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway Commission in internal control — integrated framework (1992) of internal controls at those acquired businesses. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to provide a report that contains no material weaknesses with respect to the Industrial Filtration businesses or any other acquisition. Implementation of the Company’s strategic initiatives may not be successful — As part of Lydall’s business strategy, the Company continues to review various strategic and business opportunities to grow the business and to assess the profitability and growth potential for each of its existing businesses. The Company may incur significant professional services expenses associated with the review and potential implementation of strategic business opportunities. The Company cannot predict with certainty whether any recent or future strategic transactions will be beneficial to the Company. Among other things, future performance could be impacted by the Company’s ability to: • Identify and effectively complete strategic transactions; • Obtain adequate financing to fund strategic initiatives, which could be difficult to obtain; • Successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses that involve numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, managing assets in multiple geographic regions and potential loss of key employees and key customers of acquired operations; and • Improve operating margins through its Lean Six Sigma initiatives which are intended to improve processes and work flow, improve customer service, reduce costs and leverage synergies across the Company. The Company incurred a substantial amount of additional indebtedness which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial health and make it more difficult for Lydall to obtain additional financing in the future — The Company financed the Industrial Filtration acquisition with available cash and $60.0 million in borrowings under the Amended Credit Facility executed on February 18, 2014. Incurring additional debt to fund the acquisition purchase price may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and may limit Lydall’s ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, future acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes. Additionally, the Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to meet the additional debt obligations. Any default under the Amended Credit Facility would likely result in the acceleration of the repayment obligations to our lenders. The Company may not have adequate cash to fund its operating requirements — The principal source of the Company’s liquidity is operating cash flows. Other significant factors that affect the overall management of liquidity include capital expenditures, investments in businesses, acquisitions, income tax payments, pension funding, share repurchases, outcomes of contingencies and availability of lines of credit and long-term financing. The Company’s liquidity can be impacted by the Company’s ability to: • Manage working capital and the level of future profitability. The consolidated cash balance is impacted by capital equipment and inventory investments that may be made in response to changing market conditions; • Satisfy covenants and other obligations under its amended credit facility, which could limit or prohibit Lydall’s ability to borrow funds. Additionally, these debt covenants and other obligations could limit the Company’s ability to make acquisitions, incur additional debt, make investments, or consummate asset sales and obtain additional financing from other sources. The Company is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, which impose restrictions on the Company and may carry substantial fines and penalties and result in criminal sanctions — The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including anti-bribery legislation in the United Kingdom, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage. The Company’s policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, violations of which often carry substantial fines and penalties and could result in criminal sanctions against the Company, Lydall’s officers or employees. The Company cannot assure that its internal control policies and procedures always will protect it from reckless or other inappropriate acts committed by the Company’s affiliates, employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on Lydall’s business, or financial statements and could cause the market price of Lydall’s common stock to decline. In order to meet its strategic objectives, the Company may also divest assets and/or businesses. Successfully executing such a strategy depends on various factors, including effectively transferring assets, liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to any purchaser, identifying and separating the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that the Company wishes to retain, reducing or eliminating fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business, and collecting the proceeds from any divestitures. Raw material pricing and supply issues could affect all of the Company’s businesses — The Thermal/Acoustical Metals segment uses aluminum and other metals to manufacture most of its automotive heat shields. The Thermal/Acoustical Fibers segment and Performance Materials segment use various fibers in manufacturing products. If the prices of these raw materials, or any other raw materials used in the Company’s businesses increase, the Company may not have the ability to pass incremental cost increases on to its customers. In addition, an interruption in the ability of the Company to source such materials could negatively impact operations and sales. If the Company’s goodwill or other long-lived assets become impaired, it may be required to record a significant charge to earnings — The Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is also tested by the Company for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of goodwill or other long-lived assets may not be recoverable, include, but are not limited to, a decline in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates. In 2013, the Company determined that its Solutech long-lived asset group, with a carrying amount of $4.7 million, had excess fair value over its carrying value. The determination of fair value was based on the assumption that Solutech’s customers would succeed in commercializing their products that contain Solutech technology. Small changes in future operating results in Solutech could result in a future non-cash impairment charge to income from operations. Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase the Company’s costs and funding for its domestic defined benefit pension plan — The Company’s domestic defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets may affect the funded status and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of such plan. A significant increase in benefit plan liabilities or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial statements. The Company is involved with certain legal proceedings and may become involved in future legal proceedings all of which could give rise to liability — The Company is involved in legal proceedings that, from time to time, may be material. These proceedings may include, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims, shareholder claims, and employment matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact the Company’s business — The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions designed to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. In August 2012, the SEC promulgated new disclosure and reporting requirements for companies who use conflict minerals in their products. Complying with these new disclosure and reporting requirements may require the Company to incur substantial costs and expenditures to conduct due diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in Lydall’s products. Moreover, these requirements may result in changes to the sourcing practices of the Company’s customers which may require the identification and qualification of alternate sourcing for the components of products Lydall manufactures, which could impact the availability of, or cause increases in the price of, materials 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” conflict minerals, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Changes in tax rates and exposure to additional income tax liabilities — The Company is subject to risks with respect to changes in tax law and rates, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, or adverse outcomes from tax audits that are in process in various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. In addition, certain jurisdictions have statutory rates greater than or less than the United States statutory rate. Changes in the mix and source of earnings between jurisdictions could have a significant impact on the Company’s overall effective tax rate. Realization of deferred tax assets is not assured — The Company maintains valuation allowances against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not reasonably assured. The Company evaluates the likelihood of the realization of all deferred tax assets and reduces the carrying amount to the extent it believes a portion will not be realized. Changes in these assessments can result in an increase or reduction to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and could have a significant impact on the Company’s overall effective tax rate. The Company’s future success depends upon its ability to continue to innovate, improve its products, develop and market new products, and identify and enter new markets — Improved performance and growth are partially dependent on new product introductions planned for the future. Delays in developing products and long customer qualification cycles may impact the success of new product programs. The degree of success of new product programs could impact the Company’s future results. The Company’s international operations expose it to business, economic, political, legal and other risks — The Company believes that in order to be competitive and grow its businesses, it needs to maintain significant international operations. Foreign sales were $128.0 million, $127.2 million and $144.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. International operations are subject to inherent risks including political and economic conditions in various countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable collection cycles and potentially adverse tax consequences. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect the Company’s results of operations — As a result of the Industrial Filtration acquisition, the Company’s international operations will expand substantially and its financial results will be more exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and an increased proportion of assets, liabilities and expenses will be denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The Company’s foreign and domestic operations seek to limit foreign currency exchange transaction risk by completing transactions in functional currencies whenever practical or through the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts when deemed appropriate. If the Company does not successfully hedge its currency exposure, changes in the rate of exchange between these currencies and the U.S. dollar may negatively impact the Company. Additionally, translation of the results of operations and financial condition of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations. The Company receives a material portion of its revenue from foreign operations. Foreign operations generated sales of $128.0 million, $127.2 million, and $144.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, or approximately 32.1%, 33.6% and 37.7% of total sales. The Company’s manufacturing processes are subject to inherent risk — The Company operates a number of manufacturing facilities and relies upon an effective workforce and properly performing machinery and equipment. The workforce may experience a relatively high turnover rate, causing inefficiencies associated with retraining and rehiring. The equipment and systems necessary for such operations may break down, perform poorly or fail, and possibly cause higher manufacturing costs. Manufacturing processes affect the Company’s ability to deliver quality products on a timely basis, and delays in delivering products to customers could result in the Company incurring penalties from customers. Increases in energy pricing can affect all of the Company’s businesses — Higher energy costs at the Company’s manufacturing plants or higher energy costs passed on from the Company’s vendors could impact the Company’s profitability. The Company’s resources are limited and may impair its ability to capitalize on changes in technology, competition and pricing — The industries in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive and many of the competitors are affiliated with entities that are substantially larger and that have greater financial, technical and marketing resources. The Company’s more limited resources and relatively diverse product mix may limit or impair its ability to capitalize on changes in technology, competition and pricing. 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company’s products may fail to perform as expected, subjecting it to warranty or other claims from its customers — If such failure results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or other losses, the Company may be subject to product liability lawsuits, U.S. Food and Drug Administration product recalls and other claims, any of which could have a material adverse impact on results of operations and cash flows. If the Company does not retain its key employees, the Company’s ability to execute its business strategy could be adversely affected — The Company’s success, in part, depends on key managerial, engineering, sales and marketing and technical personnel and its ability to continue to attract and retain additional personnel. The loss of certain key personnel could have a material, adverse effect upon the Company’s business and results of operations. There is no assurance that the Company can retain its key employees or that it can attract competent and effective new or replacement personnel in the future. The Company’s current reserve levels may not be adequate to cover potential exposures — Estimates and assumptions may affect the reserves that the Company has established to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, income tax valuation and fair market value write downs of certain assets and various liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations, that could increase its expense and affect operating results — The Company is subject to federal, state, local, and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that affect operations. New and changing environmental laws and regulations may impact the products manufactured and sold to customers. In order to maintain compliance with such laws and regulations, the Company must devote significant resources and maintain and administer adequate policies, procedures and oversight. Should the Company fail to do these things, it could be negatively impacted by lower net sales, fines, legal costs, and clean-up requirements. The Company may be unable to adequately protect its intellectual property, which may limit its ability to compete effectively — The Company owns intellectual property, including patents and trademarks, which play an important role in helping the Company to maintain its competitive position in a number of markets. The Company is subject to risks with respect to (i) changes in the intellectual property landscape of markets in which it competes; (ii) the potential assertion of intellectual property-related claims against the Company; (iii) the failure to maximize or successfully assert its intellectual property rights; and (iv) significant technological developments by others. Disruptions may occur to the Company’s operations relating to information technology — The capacity, reliability and security of the Company’s information technology (“IT”) hardware and software infrastructure and the ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to the Company’s changing needs are important to the operation of the businesses. In response to a review of its IT infrastructure, the Company has undertaken a project to upgrade its enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system. The deployment, implementation and integration to a new version of its ERP system may not be managed in an efficient, timely and cost effective manner resulting in greater than anticipated costs and other operating difficulties. Also, any inadequacy, interruption, loss of data, integration failure or security failure of the Company’s IT technology could harm its ability to effectively operate its business, which could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. Increased cybersecurity requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to the Company’s systems, networks, and data — Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks pose a risk to the security of the Company’s systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the Company’s data. While the Company attempts to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, monitoring and testing, and maintenance of protective systems and contingency plans, the Company remains potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats. The Company also may have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of Lydall’s businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Despite efforts made by the Company to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, the Company may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information. In addition, a cyber-related attack could result in other negative consequences, including damage to the Company’s reputation or competitiveness, remediation or increased protection costs, litigation or regulatory action. 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company could be subject to work stoppages or other business interruptions as a result of its unionized work force — A portion of the Company’s hourly employees are represented by various union locals and covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements contain various expiration dates and must be renegotiated upon expiration. Specifically, three union contracts expiring on September 30, 2016 represent approximately 60 employees in the United States. If the Company is unable to negotiate any of its collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms prior to expiration, the Company could experience disruptions in its operations which could have a material adverse effect on operations. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 