Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to those described below, any one of which could cause Lydall’s actual results to vary materially from recent results or from the Company’s anticipated future results. A Major Downturn of the North American or European Automotive Markets – Approximately 52 percent of Lydall’s total net sales in 2006 were to the automotive market. Lydall’s automotive products are thermal and acoustical barriers employed both inside and under the body of vehicles. Most of Lydall’s products are supplied to meet unique, niche applications. Lydall may have a number of components on a particular automotive platform and applications can range across all types of vehicles from sport utility models to trucks, vans and cars. Thus, there is not necessarily a direct correlation between the number of Lydall products sold and the number of vehicles being built by automotive manufacturers. During the third and fourth quarters of 2006, certain domestic automakers announced facility closures and other restructuring actions that may impact future automobile production for platforms that include Company content. While the domestic automakers have lost market share to foreign automakers, the Company continued efforts to establish its position with Asian automotive transplants in North America to offset any declines with North American automakers. The Hamptonville facility was approved in 2006 as an official supplier by certain Asian automotive transplants. This approval does not give the Company business, but it puts the Company in a position to quote and gain business in the future. No assurances can be given on how successful the Company will be in expanding its business with Asian automotive 3 Table of Contents transplants. The Company can also be affected when automotive manufacturers discontinue production of specific models that contain Lydall’s products. Conversely, Lydall benefits from the introduction of new models that contain the Company’s products. Although Lydall’s automotive sales are not solely contingent on the strength of the automotive market, a significant downturn of the North American or European automotive industries or a major decline in production of specific vehicles on which Lydall has significant content could have a material impact on Lydall’s results of operations and cash flows. Dependence on Large Customers – The automotive business is dependent on large OEM customers that have substantial bargaining power with respect to price and other commercial terms. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to offset any reduction of prices to these customers with reductions in its costs. In addition, in the event that certain domestic automakers experience further critical operating and profitability issues there can be no assurance that the Company will not lose all or a portion of sales to its large volume customers. The Company typically has significant amounts of accounts receivable from domestic automakers outstanding at any point in time. Should a domestic automaker not be able to pay the Company the amounts owed as they become due, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected. Pricing for Automotive Products – From time to time the Company’s prices may be “market tested” by its automotive customers as a way for those automotive customers to ensure global competitiveness. This can cause the Company to reduce prices prospectively on some parts, depending on the results of the customer study, possibly resulting in reduced gross margin on the effected parts, or if prices are not reduced the Company could potentially lose the business from the automotive customer. Raw Material Pricing and Supply – Raw material pricing and supply issues affect all of Lydall’s businesses and can influence results in the future. The Thermal/Acoustical Segment uses aluminum and other metals to manufacture most automotive heat shields. Also, various fibers are used in Thermal/Acoustical as well as Filtration/Separation products. The Company experienced higher aluminum costs during the last half of 2006, compared to the first two quarters of 2006, which impacted profitability. Further increases in aluminum prices or other raw materials in 2007 could lower operating income in future periods, should the Company not have the ability to pass some or all of these incremental costs on to its customers. In addition, an interruption in the supply of these materials could decrease the sales of the affected products and thereby also reduce the profitability of the Company. Energy Pricing – Increases in energy pricing affect all of Lydall’s businesses and can influence results in the future. Higher energy costs at Lydall’s Thermal/Acoustical and Filtration/Separation manufacturing plants or higher energy costs passed on from the Company’s vendors could impact each segment’s profitability. In addition, higher energy costs can impact the Company’s transport business and profitability of Other Products and Services. International Operations – The Company believes that in order to be competitive and grow its businesses, it needs to maintain significant international operations. Foreign sales were $96.0 million, $91.1 million and $86.6 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Operations outside the United States are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, political and economic conditions in various countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable collection cycles and potentially adverse tax consequences. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to generate sales outside the United States and, consequently, on its business and results of operations. Expansion into New Geographical Regions – The Company began to establish its presence in China and leased warehouse space for filtration products in 2006. The near-term goal is to set up a sales and service company with the capability of performing finishing operations in addition to acting as the central distribution and service facility for filtration products for Asia. The Company is also focusing on establishing an Asian presence for its Thermal/Acoustical products in this important market. There is no guarantee that the Company will be successful in establishing its presence in China or any other new geographical regions in the future. New Product Introductions – Improved performance and growth is partially dependent on new product introductions planned for the future. The timing and degree of success of new product programs could materially impact Lydall’s future results. Product Performance – In the event that Lydall’s products fail to perform as expected, the Company may be subject to warranty claims from its customers. If such failure results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or other losses, the Company may be subject to product liability lawsuits, product recalls, and other claims. These types of claims could have a material impact on results of operations and cash flows. 4 Table of Contents Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations – The Company is subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental, and health and safety laws and regulations that affect ongoing operations. In order to maintain compliance with such requirements, the Company may incur increased capital costs and operating expenses. In addition, new laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require the Company to incur costs or become subject to new or increased liabilities that could have a material impact on results of operations and cash flows. Strategic Initiatives – As part of Lydall’s business strategy, the Company continues to review various strategic and business opportunities to grow the business and also reviews its existing businesses to determine whether any of them should be modified, or otherwise restructured. In addition, the Company continually explores its core markets for suitable strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances and licensing agreements to supplement growth. The Company cannot predict with certainty whether any future strategic transactions will be beneficial to the Company. Company Size – The industries in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive and many of the Company’s competitors are affiliated with entities which are substantially larger and which have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company possesses. Because of the Company’s size and product mix, the Company may not be able to capitalize on changes in technology, competition and pricing as fully as the Company’s competitors. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 