Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to those described below, any one of which could cause Lydall’s actual results to vary materially from recent results or from the Company’s anticipated future results. The Current Crisis in Global Credit and Financial Markets and Decline in Economic Growth – As widely reported, global credit and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruptions in recent months, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the credit and financial markets and in economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as the Company’s in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The current tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause the Company’s customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with Lydall. This could also result in customers delaying or not making payments of amounts due to the Company. In response, the Company continually monitors the financial strength of its key customers. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by the Company’s suppliers could result in product delays and challenges in procuring sufficient levels of inventory. The Company also monitors the financial viability of its primary suppliers to assess their financial strength and the importance of their products to Lydall’s operations. The banking system and financial markets have experienced significant disruption in recent months, including bank failures and consolidations, diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades, declines in asset valuations and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. While the Company had no borrowings under its credit facility that existed at December 31, 2008, the Company may become dependent on the continued financial viability of the financial institution that is obligated to fund Lydall’s existing $35 million credit agreement entered into on March 11, 2009. Although the Company believes that its operating cash flows, together with its access to credit markets provide the Company with sufficient funding capacity, the inability of the financial institution to honor its funding commitment could have a material adverse effect on Lydall’s liquidity and operations. In the future, a continuing disruption in the credit markets restricting access to capital could impact the Company’s ability to obtain financing to fund operations, strategic transactions, or refinance maturing obligations as they become due. Lydall is unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in the credit and financial markets and adverse global economic conditions, and if the current uncertain economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, the Company’s results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Doing Business in the North American and European Automotive Markets – Approximately 54% of Lydall’s total net sales in 2008 were to the automotive market, of which approximately 48% were to the North American market and 52% to the European automotive market. Lydall’s automotive products are thermal and acoustical barriers employed both inside and under the body of vehicles. Most of Lydall’s products are supplied to meet unique, niche applications. Lydall may have a number of components on a particular automotive platform and applications can range across all types of vehicles from sport utility models to trucks, vans and cars. The Company’s automotive business can be further impacted by, but not limited to, those factors described below: • A continued reduction in consumer demand for new automobiles that can result in changes in automotive manufacturers’ production rates and their actual and forecasted requirements for the Company’s product. North American and European auto makers have seen significant declines in sales as a result of the global economic downturn and increased consumer credit restrictions. Accordingly, automakers are reducing their manufacturing levels and manufacturing capacity. These reductions will likely have a considerable impact on the Company’s automotive part sales until such time as credit restrictions on consumer loans are eased and consumer spending in the automotive market increases. Lydall is unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the global economic downturn and credit restrictions or its impact on automotive production; • General economic, business and market disruptions, including without limitation the financial difficulties facing a number of companies in the automotive industry, including possible bankruptcies, and the potential impact thereof on labor unrest, supply chain disruptions, weakness in demand and the collectibility of any accounts receivable due to us from such companies. The Company typically has significant amounts of accounts receivable from domestic automakers outstanding at any point in time. Should a domestic automaker not be able to pay the Company the amounts owed as they become due, or at all, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected; • Consolidation among automotive parts suppliers and customers impacting the Company’s ability to compete; 5 Table of Contents • Automotive manufacturers discontinuing production of specific models that contain Lydall’s products. Conversely, Lydall benefits from the introduction of new models that contain the Company’s products; • Dependence on large automotive manufacturers that have substantial bargaining power with respect to price and other commercial terms. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to offset any reduction of prices to these customers with reductions in the Company’s costs. In addition, in the event that certain domestic automakers experience further critical operating and profitability issues, there can be no assurance that the Company will not lose all or a portion of sales to its large volume customers; • Pricing for automotive products, as from time to time, the Company’s prices may be “market tested” by its automotive customers as a way for those automotive customers to ensure global competitiveness. This can cause the Company to reduce prices prospectively on some parts, depending on the results of the customer study, possibly resulting in reduced gross margin on the affected parts, or if prices are not reduced the Company could potentially lose the business from the automotive customer. In addition, the Company could also be negatively impacted by certain automotive customers sourcing a portion of their automotive parts from lower cost countries, in contrast to prior purchasing patterns; • The success, or lack thereof, of the Company’s continued long-term focus on establishing its position with Asian automotive manufacturers in North America. While the Company has begun to receive orders from Asian manufacturers in North America, no assurances can be given on how successful the Company will be in expanding its business with Asian automotive manufacturers in North America. Raw Material Pricing and Supply – Raw material pricing and supply issues affect all of Lydall’s businesses and can influence results in the future. The Thermal/Acoustical Segment uses aluminum and other metals to manufacture most automotive heat shields. Also, various fibers are used in Thermal/Acoustical as well as Performance Materials products. Should the Company not have the ability to pass some or all of these incremental costs on to its customers, then the Company’s financial results can be negatively impacted. In addition, an interruption in the supply of these materials could decrease the sales of the affected products and thereby also reduce the profitability of the Company. Energy Pricing – Increases in energy pricing can affect all of Lydall’s businesses and can influence results in the future. Higher energy costs at Lydall’s Thermal/Acoustical and Performance Materials manufacturing plants or higher energy costs passed on from the Company’s vendors could impact each segment’s profitability. International Operations – The Company believes that in order to be competitive and grow its businesses, it needs to maintain significant international operations. Foreign sales were $118.5 million, $105.7 million and $97.3 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Operations outside the United States are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, political and economic conditions in various countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable collection cycles and potentially adverse tax consequences. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to generate sales outside the United States and, consequently, on its business and results of operations. The Company’s Results of Operations May Be Impacted and Adversely Affected by Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates – Lydall is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that are beyond its control. Lydall has sales and manufacturing activities in foreign countries. The Company’s primary currency exposure is to the Euro, and to a lesser degree, the Japanese Yen and the British Pound Sterling. The Company’s foreign and domestic operations limit foreign currency exchange transaction risk by completing transactions in functional currencies whenever practical or through the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts when deemed appropriate. Certain of the Company foreign subsidiaries source raw materials from the United States and are exposed to changes in the exchange rate between their foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. If the Company is not able to successfully hedge its currency exposure, changes in the rate of exchange between these foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and cash flow. The Company’s Foreign Operations Subject it to Currency Translation Risk Which Could Cause the Company’s Reported Results to Fluctuate Significantly from Period to Period – Lydall receives a material portion of its revenue from its foreign operations. For each reporting period, the Company translates the results of operations and financial condition of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars. Therefore, Lydall’s reported results of operations and financial condition are subject to changes in the exchange relationship between the U.S. dollar and any applicable foreign currency. Such changes affect the Company’s results of operations and assets and liabilities as reported in its financial statements. 6 Table of Contents New Product Introductions – Improved performance and growth is partially dependent on new product introductions planned for the future. The timing and degree of success of new product programs could materially impact Lydall’s future results. Product Performance – In the event that Lydall’s products fail to perform as expected, the Company may be subject to warranty claims from its customers. If such failure results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or other losses, the Company may be subject to product liability lawsuits, product recalls and other claims. These types of claims could have a material impact on results of operations and cash flows should the Company’s insurance not cover such claims or be an insufficient amount to cover such claims. Company Size – The industries in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive and many of the Company’s competitors are affiliated with entities which are substantially larger and which have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company possesses. Because of the Company’s size and product mix, the Company may not be able to capitalize on changes in technology, competition and pricing as fully as the Company’s competitors. Strategic Initiatives – As part of Lydall’s business strategy, the Company continues to review various strategic and business opportunities to grow the business and also reviews its existing businesses to determine whether any of them should be modified or otherwise restructured. In addition, the Company continually explores its core markets for suitable strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances and licensing agreements to supplement growth. Acquisitions place significant demands on the Company’s administrative, operational and financial personnel and systems. Managing acquired operations entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, managing assets in multiple geographic regions and potential loss of key employees of acquired operations. The Company cannot predict with certainty whether any recent or future strategic transactions will be beneficial to the Company. Restructurings – In the third quarter of 2008, the Company announced its plans to consolidate its North American automotive operations by ceasing the manufacture of automotive parts at its St. Johnsbury, Vermont facility. The Company expects this action to lower its operating costs and increase its manufacturing efficiencies. However, the Company cannot assure that this action will not result in unforeseen costs, disruptions in its operations, or other negative events that could result in the Company failing to realize the projected benefits of the consolidation. Savings Realized from Lean Six Sigma Initiatives – The Company has implemented a Lean Six Sigma program which is aimed at improving processes and work flow, reducing costs and leveraging synergies across the Company. While management of the Company expects future improvements in operating margins, as Lean Six Sigma becomes inherent in all businesses across the organization, there are no assurances that future Lean Six Sigma initiatives will result in improved operating margins. Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations – The Company is subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental, and health and safety laws and regulations that affect ongoing operations. In order to maintain compliance with such requirements, the Company may incur increased capital costs and operating expenses. In addition, new laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require the Company to incur costs or become subject to new or increased liabilities that could have a material impact on results of operations and cash flows. Developments or Assertions by or Against the Company Relating to Intellectual Property Rights – The Company owns intellectual property, including patents and trademarks. The Company’s intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining its competitive position in a number of the markets served. Developments or assertions by or against the Company relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact the Company. The Company’s results of operations can also be adversely impacted if the Company does not maximize or successfully assert its intellectual property rights. In addition, significant technological developments by others also could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations and financial condition. The Company is Involved from Time to Time in Legal Proceedings – The Company is involved in legal proceedings that, from time to time, are significant. These claims may include, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims and employment matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s Expected Annual Effective Tax Rate Could Be Volatile and Materially Change – Changes in tax law and rates, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, or adverse outcomes from tax audits that regularly are in process in any of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates could also have a significant impact on the Company’s overall effective rate in 7 Table of Contents future periods. In addition, certain jurisdictions have statutory rates greater than or less than the United States statutory rate. As such, changes in the mix and source of earnings between jurisdictions could have a significant impact on the Company’s overall effective tax rate in future periods. The Company’s Operations May Be Disrupted by Events Beyond the Company’s Control – A major disruption such as a natural disaster, terrorism, a fire or labor strikes and work stoppages at any of the Company’s facilities could result in a prolonged interruption of its business. Certain of Lydall’s employees in the United States and Germany, and all of the Company’s employees in France and The Netherlands are organized and covered by one or more collective bargaining agreements. Widespread work stoppages or a major disruption could have a direct negative impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business, continue production, and on its operating results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 