Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to those described below, any one of which could cause the Company’s actual results to vary materially from recent results or from Lydall’s anticipated future results. Worldwide Economic Cycles – The Company’s 2009 operating results were negatively impacted by a global economic recession and economic uncertainties. Among other factors, disruptions in the global credit and financial markets, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence and spending, declines in economic growth and increases in unemployment rates have caused economic instability. Worldwide economic cycles, and the effects on the markets in which the Company operates, are difficult to predict. These economic uncertainties affect the Company’s businesses in a number of ways, including the results of operations and liquidity, as well as making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan Lydall’s future business activities. The Company is unable to predict the timing and how the financial results will be impacted as the markets served begin to improve. Doing Business in the North American and European Automotive Markets – The Company’s Thermal/Acoustical segment accounted for approximately 51% of the Company’s total net sales in 2009. Thermal/Acoustical segment net sales were to the automotive market, of which approximately 49% were to the North American market and 51% to the European market. The automotive products are thermal and acoustical barriers employed both inside and under the body of vehicles. During 2009, North American and European automakers significantly reduced their production of automobiles compared to levels in prior years due to the economic recession and reduced consumer demand for automobiles. Among other factors, the Company’s automotive business could be impacted by: • A further reduction in or dramatic fluctuation of consumer demand for automobiles, further financial difficulties faced by automakers and other automotive customers, including post-bankruptcy financial difficulties for Chrysler and General Motors, labor unrest and supply chain disruptions in the automotive industry. • The failure of an automaker to timely, or ever, pay the Company amounts owed especially since receivables from automakers often comprise a material portion of overall account receivables. • Consolidation among automotive parts suppliers and customers impacting the Company’s ability to compete. • Dependence on sales from large automotive manufacturers that have substantial bargaining power with respect to price and other commercial terms. In the event these customers are able to impose price reductions on Lydall’s products, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to offset such reduction by commensurate reductions in the Company’s costs. • The Company’s prices may be “market tested” by its automotive customers as a way for those automotive customers to ensure global competitiveness. This “market testing” of products can put the Company in the position of either reducing prices prospectively on some parts, possibly resulting in reduced gross margin on the affected parts, or hold on pricing and risk the loss of business from the automotive customer. • The Company could also be negatively impacted by certain automotive customers electing to source a bigger portion of their automotive parts from lower cost countries. • The Company’s ability to establish a position with Asian automotive manufacturers in North America. Quarterly Results – The Company’s quarterly results are subject to significant fluctuations. Operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including size and timing of orders and shipments, loss of significant customers, product mix, technological change, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, competition and general economic conditions. In addition, the extent that revenue and asset utilization increase or decrease, the absorption of the Company’s fixed costs will positively or negatively impact gross margins. Accounting Estimates – Estimates and assumptions may affect the reserves that the Company has established to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value write downs of certain assets, and various liabilities, and actual results could differ from those estimates. Debt Covenants and Financing – The Company’s domestic credit facility contains a number of affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants. If the Company is not able to satisfy covenants and other obligations under the facility, then the Company’s ability to borrow funds from the facility could be restricted or not available. Moreover, the Company may not be able to obtain additional financing from other sources. 4 Table of Contents Raw Material Pricing and Supply – Raw material pricing and supply issues affect all of the Company’s businesses and can influence results in the future. The Thermal/Acoustical segment uses aluminum and other metals to manufacture most automotive heat shields. The Thermal/Acoustical and Performance Materials segments use various fibers in manufacturing its products. If the prices of these raw materials increase, the Company may not have the ability to pass incremental cost increases on to its customers, thus negatively impacting Lydall’s financial results. In addition, an interruption in the ability of the Company to source these materials could negatively impact operations and sales. Energy Pricing – Increases in energy pricing can affect each of the Company’s businesses and can influence results in the future. Higher energy costs at the Company’s manufacturing plants or higher energy costs passed on from the Company’s vendors could impact each businesses profitability. International Operations – The Company believes that in order to be competitive and grow its businesses, it needs to maintain significant international operations. Foreign sales were $96.3 million, $118.5 million and $105.7 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Operations outside the United States are subject to inherent risks, including political and economic conditions in various countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable collection cycles and potentially adverse tax consequences. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to generate sales outside the United States and, consequently, on its business and results of operations. The Company is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that are beyond its control. The Company has sales and manufacturing activities in foreign countries. The Company’s primary currency exposure is to the Euro, and to a lesser degree, the Japanese Yen and the British Pound Sterling. The Company’s foreign and domestic operations limit foreign currency exchange transaction risk by completing transactions in functional currencies whenever practical or through the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts when deemed appropriate. If the Company is not able to successfully hedge its currency exposure, changes in the rate of exchange between these foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and cash flow. Also, the Company receives a material portion of its revenue from its foreign operations. For each reporting period, the Company translates the results of operations and financial condition of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars. Therefore, the Company’s reported results of operations and financial condition are subject to changes in the exchange relationship between the U.S. dollar and any applicable foreign currency. Such changes affect the Company’s results of operations and assets and liabilities as reported in its financial statements. New Product Introductions – Improved performance and growth is partially dependent on new product introductions planned for the future. The timing and degree of success of new product programs could materially impact the Company’s future results. Product Performance – In the event that the Company’s products fail to perform as expected, the Company may be subject to warranty claims from its customers. If such failure results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or other losses, the Company may be subject to product liability lawsuits, product recalls and other claims. These types of claims could have a material impact on results of operations and cash flows should insurance not cover such claims or be an insufficient amount to cover such claims. Company Size – The industries in which Lydall sells its products are highly competitive and many of the competitors are affiliated with entities which are substantially larger and which have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company possesses. Because of the Company’s size and product mix, Lydall may not be able to capitalize on changes in technology, competition and pricing as fully as its competitors. Strategic Initiatives – As part of Lydall’s business strategy, the Company continues to review various strategic and business opportunities to grow the business and also reviews its existing businesses to determine whether any of them should be modified or otherwise restructured. In addition, the Company continually explores its core markets for suitable strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances and licensing agreements to supplement growth. Acquisitions place significant demands on the Company’s administrative, operational and financial personnel and systems. Managing acquired operations entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, managing assets in multiple geographic regions and potential loss of key employees and key customers of acquired operations. The Company cannot predict with certainty whether any recent or future strategic transactions will be beneficial to the Company. Restructurings and Cost Reduction Activities – During 2009, the Company implemented workforce reductions and other cost reduction activities at certain businesses to address the slow-down in the markets for their products, including the completion of 5 Table of Contents the consolidation of the North American automotive operations resulting in the closing of its St. Johnsbury, VT facility. The Company expects this consolidation to lower its operating costs and increase its manufacturing efficiencies. However, the Company cannot assure that as production levels increase this action will not result in unforeseen costs, disruptions in its operations, or other negative events that could result in failing to realize the projected benefits of the consolidation. Attracting and Retaining Key Employees – The Company’s success, in part, depends on key managerial, engineering, sales and marketing and technical personnel, as well as its ability to continue to attract and retain additional personnel. The loss of certain key personnel could have a material, adverse effect upon the Company’s business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that Lydall can retain its key employees, or that it can attract similar additional employees in the future. Lean Six Sigma Initiatives – The Company has implemented a Lean Six Sigma program which is aimed at improving processes and work flow, reducing costs and leveraging synergies across the Company to improve operating margins. There can be no assurance that future Lean Six Sigma initiatives will result in improved operating margins. Environmental Laws and Regulations – The Company is subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental, and health and safety laws and regulations that affect ongoing operations. In order to maintain compliance with such requirements, Lydall may incur increased capital costs and operating expenses. In addition, new laws and regulations, including legislation and regulation regarding climate change, discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require the Company to incur costs or become subject to new or increased liabilities that could have a material impact on results of operations and cash flows. Intellectual Property – Lydall owns intellectual property, including patents and trademarks, that plays an important role in helping the Company to maintain its competitive position in a number of markets. Changes in the intellectual property landscape of markets in which the Company competes, and the potential assertion of intellectual property-related claims against Lydall, could materially impact the Company. Lydall’s results of operations could also be adversely impacted if the Company does not maximize or successfully assert its intellectual property rights. In addition, significant technological developments by others also could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations and financial condition. Legal Proceedings – The Company is involved in legal proceedings that, from time to time, are significant. These proceedings may include, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims and employment matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. Tax Rate Changes – Changes in tax law and rates, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, or adverse outcomes from tax audits that regularly are in process in any of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates could also have a significant impact on the Company’s overall effective rate in future periods. In addition, certain jurisdictions have statutory rates greater than or less than the United States statutory rate. As such, changes in the mix and source of earnings between jurisdictions could have a significant impact on the overall effective tax rate in future periods. Disruptions to the Company’s Operations – The capacity, reliability and security of the Company’s information technology hardware and software infrastructure and the ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to the Company’s changing needs are important to the operation of the businesses. Any failure or inadequacy in the information technology infrastructure could harm Lydall’s businesses and negatively impact results of operations and cash flows. Also, a major disruption such as acts of war, terrorist attacks, and the threat of domestic and international terrorist attacks, a natural disaster, global warming, a fire, or labor strikes and work stoppages at any of the Company’s facilities could result in a prolonged interruption of its business. Certain employees in the United States and Germany and all employees in France and The Netherlands are organized and covered by one or more collective bargaining agreements. Widespread work stoppages or a major disruption could have a direct negative impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business, continue production, and on its operating results. 6 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 